u2019-11-05-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 6th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, you will be Mr Attila Gelencsér and Mr László Varga for my help. Welcome to our guests and all those who are monitoring our meeting today. As usual, we will start with speeches before the agenda. Mr Tamás Mellar, Member of the Dialogue Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on the current affairs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-05-1	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, A few weeks ago Zsolt Páva, former Fidesz mayor of Pécs, announced that the city budget was saving HUF 7 billion. This seemed highly unlikely, since two years ago, when Viktor Orbán visited Pécs in the autumn of 17 years ago, it turned out that there were more than 12 billion deficits in the budget, and at that time even local government businesses had not been mentioned about how much debt there was. It was then that Treasury Commissioners were appointed to oversee the city management in Pécs. After the handover, Attila Péterffy, the newly elected independent mayor, found, on the basis of the financial department of the city, that the city had a debt of HUF 18.2 billion and a lack of operations of 4.8 billion. So the question is, how did the city of Pécs get into this situation, since in 2014 the State took over all the debts and thus created a clear situation. Of course, this problem was also wanted by the former Fidesz city administration, and he called an expert committee, led by Parliamentary Congressman Peter Hoppál, to determine how, how, and who was responsible for this debt. Well, of course, we didn't get any smarter, because we don't know how this debt came about anyway, because the material that was done, more than fifty pages of expert material, was immediately encrypted, and the citizens of Pécs were not in a position to look at it, and they're not in a position to look at it today. As a Member of Parliament, I asked the former mayor of Fidesz to give it to me, so I could see what this material contains, but he didn't give it out, saying it's a secret material. Of course, the citizens of Pécs knew exactly what had happened, and they expressed their views on 13 October. I mean, if we look at it, what happened in 2014? In 2014, when the city started with a clean slate, all 19 of the 19 local government representatives were won by Fidesz. What happened this October 13th? Out of the 18 individual seats, because there is now one less place, because the electoral districts have been transformed, Fidesz has not won any, none. The Each Pécsért Association, which brought together opposition cooperation, won 16 out of 18 seats, and two were won by a civil society organisation which concluded an electoral alliance with Fidesz. So that's how it is now. We are very happy for this success, but of course we are not presumptuous. We do not think that we can sit on this success, on this result. We have a lot of work to do, and this trust needs to be kept in the future, because I think that's why the citizens of the city voted for us. That is why I initiated with Mayor Péterffy that it should not happen again that municipal companies should be indebted to this extent, so that each municipal company in the city could have a seat in the supervisory board of the Each Pécsért Association in order to ensure that civilian control, civilian control, could be implemented. I mean, I specifically asked that, of course, without any fees or fees, so we undertake this by giving up this fee and giving the citizens of the city an opportunity, who has the professional qualifications to come and do this job. So we want the city's farming under civilian control. I am deeply convinced that the future has begun in Pécs, the future that is based on democratic control, democratic urban leadership and effective urban management. I hope that the other opposition cities will follow this example. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-11-05-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, responds. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-11-05-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I listened to your speech. It took about four minutes to get out of the bag when it came to members of the supervisory board. This speech was, in fact, about the fact that we were able to take part in an internal opposition meeting, an internal opposition power struggle that we could be part of, and obviously you are using the Parliament as a stage to strengthen your position in the internal opposition fight. Of course, I can't do anything, I just record the fact, I wouldn't even like to classify it, but I would like to say that I think that the genre of speeches before Parliament and the agenda shouldn't be about that. By the way, what you said until the moment when the angle came out of the bag, and that is nothing more than a selective storytelling, because you left out a few details because of the strong nuance of the picture. Because the story begins somewhere between 2002-2010, when a system of... Unfortunately, things come from each other, so sometimes we have to bring up previous cases and understand the problems of the present from previous cases. Thus, between 2002 and 2010, a system was established in which the State did not provide funding to the municipalities, but the responsibilities and responsibilities were burdened. This resulted in local governments being indebted, and also right-wing authorities and left-wing municipalities, left-wing municipalities being more, but everyone was covered by this. When the government supported by Fidesz-KDNP came to power in 2010, what happened was that we reviewed this system and redesigned this system. We introduced task funding when we said that the tasks which the law defines for the municipalities in two thirds, either the necessary funding from the State or through transferred revenues, will be directly received by the municipality, and otherwise, we will free the municipal authorities from debt. [[9.10]] So we freed the municipalities from almost HUF 1,400 billion in debt. After that, which you also did not mention, and yet this can be seen as the results of the last nine years, we have launched an unprecedented development programme. In the case of cities with county rights, so in the case of Pécs too, we call it the "Modern Cities" program, in which the unique thing is that the leaders of the Prime Minister and the settlement have sat down directly and agreed, and what the leaders of the settlement have then revealed to us, we support the developments on the part of the government. I am forced, Congressman, to talk about national matters because this is a national forum. So I just want to know what the government's position is in this? The government's position is to free the government from debt, to provide development resources to the city of Pécs in the order of approximately HUF 100 billion, and to keep what the government promised in these agreements. We, of course, say that as the Pécs, Budapesters, Szombathelyi, Tatabányai, Tatai, as the Hungarians decided in the municipal elections, do not affect this agreement; that agreement is also for the local leaders who have just been elected. They must be able to work for the city and for urban development. My problem is that from this whole story, it's like the political trick here is that you promised in the election campaign, but you already knew it, and now you're trying to hide it, that you knew you couldn't deliver on your promises. Your speech about the members of the Supervisory Board was about how to back out of the promises made to Hungarian voters, and that is the case everywhere. And we believe that this is unacceptable, and the government will always side with voters living in settlements, the Hungarians. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-05-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! How long is the Ministry still covering for Felcsút Fociacadémia? Mr László Varju asked for the floor with a title from the DK Group. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-11-05-5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I think, sooner or later, we need to get to the practice of not letting a secretary of state lecture us in this way, but until we come to a common denominator, I'm going to bring up another topic for you... [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Threatening violence! Dr. Balázs Orbán intervenes. Németh Szilárd István: What is this aggression?... The president's ringing the bell.]] Of course, but sooner or later, Members will turn up, and for now, I am pleased that we can attend a government meeting. I would like to remind you, and yesterday I drew attention to the fact that the Fidesz party is virtually non-functional, and its parliamentary faction is not able to stop the lawlessness I drew attention to yesterday. You, who are currently missing from the benches here, direct servers, see also these State Secretarys who defend the honour of the mundé in this way, they are the ones who are responsible for the fact that practically everything can be done in Hungary today without penalty. And that is also a big problem if you live in the belief that you are doing everything very well, and this is in the interests of Hungary, but the fact is that this is not the case at all. Consider a specific example. Since October 25, 2017, there has been a final decision taken by the Curia to ensure that Tao money and public money must be transparent and can be presented. Following Transparency International's initiative, MLSZ has done so much that otherwise the offerings and donations have been made available. Therefore, let's just say, let's draw attention to how many donations are offered to the various companies under the. tao. But you are forgetting one thing: when this public offering contest takes place, one of the main winners of this is the Felcsúti Foundation, where this support will come to the Prime Minister's liking in an undisputed way. We can also bring up corruption, because practically after the procurement procedures that have been carried out, these offerings appear here. And what is the real challenge and the real problem in this circle is that you are specifically blocking access to this fund and the rest of it. This is how it is done in this particular case, in which I say that the Democratic Coalition has sued these data for more than two years, you and exactly the foundation should have made copies of each contract, of each account, and then, by the way, a man of the Ministry, with your representatives' support, says that they will conduct further investigations, make false inquiries, and otherwise refuse to issue these documents to the bailiff. You, with the government's leadership and support, will remove the documents that would otherwise create or conceal the transparency of public funds in this way. It is the Ministry of Human Resources that does this work here in concrete terms. Twice a 180-day inquiry will perhaps be discussed here, Mr. Secretary of State, when you come up with new ideas as to why you will not be published, but, by the way, Mr. Secretary of State, be honest for at least one minute: when you know exactly that this court decision will be made before October 25, 2017, you asked for all the documents one day before that, and today the foundation claims that it does not have any copies of it, today you are hiding everything. This cover-up, I guess, has to stop. I was personally at the Ministry, and it was your dedicated press secretary who said why they wouldn't issue these papers, that they're just going to give it up. You gave me such a simple answer. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Members of Parliament, Stop hiding it and don't hide these papers. Not only do they slip up, but all associations have to report how this money has been used, and those who have not had enough have to do so, but those who are pissed off have to do it anyway. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-05-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Rétvári Bence, State Secretary, responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-11-05-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, First of all, I would like to reject the threat you made here at the beginning of your speech, honourable Member. You were issued by the National Assembly yesterday on an immunity case precisely because of your violence, and the next day, you come into Parliament and you start threatening me. When you were a State Secretary, you responded to the opposition representatives of that time according to parliamentary rules similar to those of the same Parliament, yet you were not threatened here in the Parliamentary Chamber, but no one said that when there were more people, they would try to get satisfaction from the government's secretary of state here. This is even a threat to violence, honourable Member. In one of these cases, Parliament made a decision. [[László Varju intervenes.]] He'll come in the next day and continue with a threat. Honourable Congressman, Neither the result of the 13 October election nor any other right to threaten you here in Parliament. [[9.20]] And I would refuse to have the entire court system tampered with. He said that every court, every judge, served the power interests of Fidesz. Mr President, on the one hand, you cannot seriously believe that this is the case, and on the other hand, I think all the thousands of tens of thousands of workers are asking you to be whatever you are, even if you have political sympathy here and there, to accuse them of it. You said that everything can be done without penalty in Hungary. Honourable Member, there are criminal proceedings in this country, some of which, fortunately, in a very small part, when, in the case of a member of the Fidesz, ex-member, politician, are involved, they carry out judicial proceedings in the same way, and, in the first instance, second degree, they are also judged in the same way, honourable Member. You can see that, it's in the press. Why do you say that in Hungary there would be no consequences of criminal law against Fidesz? Specific court rulings, final court judgments contradict what you said. It also pains me that certain things, let's say, a speech in autumn, in which the Prime Minister admits to lying to his people or to a horse-riding attack directed at peaceful memorialists, did not have any consequences that our sense of justice would have justified after 2006, but you would have to discuss this at an internal faction meeting. With regard to transparency, honourable Member, you are here at Parliament's meeting talking about the need to be more transparent for all Tao resources; all donations, as you have said, must be transparent. This is a need for transparency up to the border until donations from abroad are mentioned. When, let's say, in the Stop Soros bill, Parliament only proposed and adopted the law that anyone who receives funding from abroad should have a data accessible to all in the interests of transparency, you are against this by hand. When it comes to foreign financing, it should be opaque when it comes to sports funding, be every penny transparent, exposed to the Internet, accessible by everyone, especially on all kinds of websites. So are you in favor of Stop Soros or not? If you consider transparency important, your party president's wife, Klára Dobrev, should also support Stop Soros here and in Brussels. That's what they're talking about. Mr President, this is the case of duplicity, this is the case of double politics. When it comes to the interests of Soros organisations, transparency when it comes to sport funding. That's your policy. As far as the cover is concerned, Congressman, which was also the title of your speech. Perhaps it is when Péter Gajda, your coalition partner, does not recognize Csaba Lackner, his own fellow Member for two weeks, or when Zsolt Gréczy, the spokesperson of your faction, is covering the city leaders with a bag of white powder, saying that Péter Gajda denies what was said in the video, questioning the credibility of this, we believe that to Péter Gajda, so we act accordingly. Now, that's cover-up. Or when Csaba Czeglédy is placed in the last place on their EP list to escape with immunity, for example, this, honourable Member, is a cover-up. However, when the government complies with Government Decree No 107/2011 and imposes control that visual team sport support and direct budget support were calculated separately in the operation of this foundation, the Government Decree No 15/C. Article 7 or, when, pursuant to paragraph 6 of the same paragraph, it examines that all the legal conditions and legal conditions for the implementation of the use of the facilities for Community purposes exist, that is to say, compliance with the laws in force, honourable Member. So I'm asking you to be consistent or to demand transparency everywhere, or not just against sports organisations. On the other hand, I ask you and everyone else to comply with these laws, which apply to control. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-05-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Péter Ungár applied for a speech before the agenda entitled "Proliferation crisis" from the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-05-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The fact is that in Hungary, people who do caring work are not adequately observed... paid, sorry. [[Defiance.]] Then I'll get to why I said that. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]] Okay, thank you. So they're not paid enough. The fact is that at present in the social sector, people who are being observed at work, when they want to be on strike, when they are engaging in opposition activities, or those who might join the trade union, or make the union's leadership look at something else, are being harmed at their workplace. This is a serious problem. I hope that you will deal with this, Mr Secretary of State, in addition to responding to my speech. The thing is, right now, the social strike is something that can't be done because of the different bad details of the strike law. By the way, Fidesz was of the opinion that everyone has the right to strike while ensuring proper care. You know exactly why people in the social sector want to strike, because at the moment in Hungary about 130 thousand forints are made by a medical educator, and 120,000 forints are made by someone who does nursing work in a nursing home. We know precisely that these are not competitive wages, even within the caring sector. That is precisely why it is, and this is mostly so in Western Hungary, where by commuting 20-30 kilometers you can earn eight to nine times that there are many, terribly large jobs that are unfilled, so they can no longer guarantee the minimum legal minimum in the social sector in many places that they expect. I would ask Mr Secretary of State here to inform the Parliament of the progress of the negotiations with the trade unions, as I understand it, and of the results of the wage negotiation, because I think we all agree that there must be some concrete result to this wage negotiation. The fact is, I would not comment on the care fee now that in 2004 you presented an otherwise correct proposal aimed at raising the care fee to everyone in a uniform manner. You voted against this, using the expression of my fellow Member Nacsa, that I have to deal with my spiritual life. With this cynical expression and this justification, they voted against a proposal that would mean 100 thousand forints to more than 40,000 Hungarian families instead of the current 58 thousand forints, and then the minimum wage, which was your position in 2004. I'd like to focus on what happened with the children's home care fee. When this institution was introduced at the very beginning, there was a point system in this regard, which was opposed at the time by a lot of people, especially by the parents of children with autism spectrum disorder, and by families raising children with other disabilities or severe diseases. At that time, Mr. Secretary Philip, who is somehow never seen in the benches, which personally brings me great sadness, instead went into Echo Television and said that everything was all right, there is nothing to see here, everyone who argues against this point system is personally doing political hystericalism. Six months later, they had to change the point system, because you knew that this situation had become untenable. However, this still has a lot of problems. I would like to say three from letters from specific citizens. One is that most social support can be used by a guardian, not just by a person who has a specific parental right over a child. Why is it that children's care fees cannot be used by the guardian? This has come up as a problem for more citizens. I'd like you to give me a concrete answer. I can accept that if there is a reason, only these citizens would like to know why. One of the other two things is that there are still children with a serious illness who fall out of this because of the point system, because they do not get the six points they need to fall into the raised part of the care fee. I am also asking the Secretary of State to make a concrete amendment to this point system and to plan to move to diagnosis-based judgement. The third is that you would answer anyone's question because it came from several places, how many people are now getting sick during the lawn review, how many people have fallen out of those who have received this kind of high care award before, and how the number of people who receive weeds in Hungary will grow. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-05-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Rétvári Bence, State Secretary, responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-11-05-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, At the beginning of this year, you were alarmed by the fact that the new system, which was adopted by Parliament, would cover fewer. They explained their own certificate by saying that although the government raised the care fee by 30 percent, they introduced the child care fee of 100 thousand forints, and we will increase the value of it next year, and it will not be 100, but 124 thousand forints, and we will continue to raise it until 2022, but you said that it is true that this big increase is here, it is true that you did not vote for this increase here in Parliament, but it will apply to certain fewer. Then it turned out that thousands of people were added to the list of those who were entitled to a care fee, a care fee for children, and obviously the weeded section had risen to the greatest extent. [[9.30]] But allow me to go point by point in what you said. Firstly, we are in negotiations with social trade unions on how and how we can actually pursue the wage-raising policy that we have so far. After all, you know very well, honourable Member, that more wage increases have already taken place in recent years. It started in 2014, when we provided a surplus of HUF 12 billion for this, in 2015 we provided HUF 7.6 billion in the second half of the year, then HUF 16 billion in the next year, HUF 9 billion in 2017, followed by a consolidated increase in the social sector, which affected the most experienced 14 700 colleagues, and they received a gross increase of HUF 35 thousand. So if you look at the increase between 2012 and today, you can see that the wage has risen by about 72 percent. And you can see that an average of 97 thousand forints makes more money now than you earned in 2012. If I may give you a specific example of a specific increase in wages: who, let's say, had a secondary and secondary education and had a C14 rating, so he had a longer career, his salary rose by HUF 116 671. He who had a college degree, but worked as a family care provider in F1 as a career beginner, his salary rose by HUF 118 500. So these are already felt wage increases. But we know very well that there must be a further increase in wages. Next year's budget law includes a wage increase framework of some HUF 142 billion, and obviously also talks with representatives of all sectors, as it is not only the representatives of the social sector that are involved in this next year's wage increase budget, which you have not supported in the next year's budget, how and how wage increases can be made. So this trial is ongoing. And as in previous years, there have been increases in the wage framework of up to ten billion per year, so this will continue to happen later. As far as the care fee is concerned, honourable Member, you have faced many times here in Parliament that when you have to put on T-shirts, you are very loud. When you have to go out on the street, and you can pose with the parents of children with a really difficult fate, then you take out your phone, self-fly, challenge the media, say sympathetic sentences. When you put stickers on your jacket or stickers on your laptop, they compete on who has a louder-colored sticker on your jacket or laptop. But when the moment of truth comes and you have to vote on whether it is an important issue for you to raise the care fee or not, in fact, to raise the care fee, you prefer to choose the political scandal. They prefer to subvert Parliament's session rather than to take about 12 steps, to go from behind the benches to their seats, to sit down, just reach there and press the yes button, and to vote for an increase in the child care fee. You didn't do this on December 12th, everything else was more important to you that day than raising the care fee. And that's what you did together, representatives of all the opposition parties. However, we decided on a radical increase, as we used to spend 27 billion forints on care fees, which we increased this year with the 100 thousand forints increase to 45 billion forints, and next year we will raise the framework for the care fee to 55 billion forints. So in three years, it will grow from 27 billion to 55 billion forints. This is covered by the 30 percent increase until 2022, in terms of the care fee generally, and this also covers the increase in the care fee for children, which will reach the minimum wage at that time by 22. So, honourable Member, I will tell you once again that the number of right holders has not decreased, but has increased by thousands in the last year. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-05-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. This is how Fidesz wins the speech from the MSZP Group with the title of more than two million people, Zita Gurmai applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-11-05-13	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, It is not good to be retired in Hungary today, and I am not the only one saying that. The numbers of a government institute, the Central Statistical Office, prove that Fidesz has reduced pensioners in nine years. And if that makes you murmur, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that your institute, KSH, claims that retirement income poverty has more than doubled since 2010, from 4.6 percent to 10 percent. income poverty among retired women from 5 percent to 11.3%, more than twice as much. It is also worth pointing out that while the average per capita old-age pension in January was HUF 129 637, women's old-age pension was more than HUF 17 thousand behind men. The last month has been the month of the elderly, your government is obviously trying to pretend that the pensioners are okay here because of the elections. But let's take a look at why this charade is so sanctimonious and lying. About 50,000 of the bills given instead of a real pension increase were not awarded to the right holders. This 50,000 vouchers have been returned to the Treasury, where it is very difficult for those involved to obtain them. That way, this money can be assigned to one of those expensive stadiums at any time. The communication of supplementary pension increases is also a lie. This is not the goodness of Fidesz, but a legal obligation if the inflation planned by the government turns out to be lower than the actual one. And you are knowingly saving up on pensioners because you knew a year ago that inflation was under-planned. So you've been holding back and using the pensioners' money for 10 months, the money the pensioners were supposed to get. You deliberately profited from the pensioners when you held back their raise. Moreover, the current only 0.7 percent additional increase does not cover the average increase in food prices of 5.1 percent. Consider some examples of price increases. The pork is 13.3%, the bread is 8.5, the flour is 2.2 percent higher. You can see, therefore, that you are giving a much smaller increase than food prices are. Plus, next year, you'll be doing the same trick with your two million pensioners' money, redesigning inflation to make money on the elderly. And the third government squash is the retirement premium, which the Fidesz boasts of as if it had been invented by you. The reality is that the pension premium was introduced by the Bajnai government. Moreover, we have repeatedly proposed to make the pension premium system fairer so that those who receive a smaller pension receive at least the same amount as those who can receive a pension above average. The government could have corrected this, but it didn't. Which is the biggest lie the government has when it pretends that the annual pension system is okay. As of 2012, you have set out by law that any economic growth is only increased annually by the rate of inflation planned. This was the case during the Bajna government, with GDP growth as high as possible. [[Intruder from the pro-government benches, there was no such thing.]] We also took into account the increase in wages when raising pensions. Let's just say your unfair retirement is damaging the pensioners. We therefore consider it necessary to introduce the former mixed indexation. But you won't allow it. The Fidesz lets the masses of pensioners suffer, and after nine years of government, they still point ridiculously backwards, just like they're gonna do right now. Please do not lie again, that the MSZP has done nothing for pensioners, because we have done a lot of old injustices with a pension correction starting in 2005. And most of all, realize that you've been in government for nine years, which means you're responsible for the situation of the needy pensioners. Thank you for listening.
u2019-11-05-14	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The secretary-general, Bence Rétvári, responds to his speech before the agenda on behalf of the Government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-11-05-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, This is when you feel that it's only five minutes to correct all the untruths you're saying. But I am trying to do this; firstly, with regard to the different Eurostat and other statistics on the poverty of older people and pensioners. [[9.40]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The proportion of pensioners at risk of poverty in the EU is 14.2 percent. In Hungary, thank God, it is much lower, about two thirds of it, so in Hungary, thank God, the proportion of people exposed to poverty is below the EU level, and thank God, the trend is positive, as their proportion is decreasing year after year. If you look at these statements, you can see that it is constantly from a level similar to an EU level, since it was 14.1 percent in 2010, it has now gone back to around 10 percent, and this level has fallen, while it is 14.2 percent in the EU. So, Congresswoman, your self-esteem is not true, and no statistical data can support it. Thank God, if you look at Eurostat and other data, the number of elderly people exposed to poverty has decreased. And this is due, honourable Member, to the fact that while you have taken a month's pension from Hungarian pensioners, our government has undertaken to preserve the value of pensions and not only to preserve but also to increase the value of pensions. You are talking about calculations that would take 5 thousand forints a month out of the pocket of Hungarian pensioners over the past few years. If we applied the calculation methods you have indicated here in Parliament, Hungarian pensioners would have received a pension of HUF 5 thousand a month here in Hungary for years. And you didn't just take a month's pension from every Hungarian pensioner. You're saying you're fighting to make them poor pensioners. In principle, your aim is to make better living for pensioners, and then your party will take away a month's pension from every Hungarian pensioner. How do you reconcile that? How can you stand up here in Parliament and say that more pensions for pensioners, while you took a month's pension from all Hungarian elderly people, honourable Member, and, of course, they were raised 15 times the rent, they would have been introduced and introduced next to it, but the referendum abolished the hospital daily allowance and the visit fee. So you're cutting the pension, you're paying the doctor, and the bills are getting higher. For you, is this the program that older people, pensioners, are fighting poverty, so that they have less income and more expenses for all Hungarian elderly people? You have spoken of wage differences, honourable Member, between men and women, which also appears in pensions. Compared to your governance, this difference has been reduced by one fifth. If it were socialist governance, the wage gap between men and women would be 20 percent higher, i.e. the difference would be higher in the case of pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If you're so eager to help the elderly, why didn't you vote for 40 women here in Parliament? If you have succeeded in voting, with a roll-call vote, standing up each Member to take a month's pension from all Hungarian pensioners, then why have you failed to vote by clicking the button so that after 40 years of working and raising children, Hungarian women and Hungarian mothers can retire after 40 years? Why wasn't this voted here in Parliament? It wouldn't have been hard. It would have been as simple as introducing a child care fee. In the same way, it would have been just a button push for both of them, but you didn't do either, honourable Member. However, you have admitted that your pension fund has been handed over with hundreds of billions of dollars in holes, you have acknowledged 200 billion, but in fact it was nearly 400 billion forints, which was missing from the pension fund. If you add up pension increases in recent years, you will receive a 3.3 percent amount, but at the same time, if you deduct inflation from this, you will receive an increase in purchasing value of around 10 percent, honourable Member. So while you've taken a month's pension, in our case, the total value of pensions has increased by 3.3 percent, and the value of your purchase has increased by 10 percent, which is worth more in stores. You have made a false statement when you were going to talk about any kind of inflation-planning tricks, as inflation may be going above and below the projected inflation. When inflation is lower than planned, pensioners will receive it, win the difference, incorporate it into their pension; just as the pension supplement will be incorporated into their pension. So that's their result. And when inflation is higher, we will pay the difference retroactively, as in this year. There is a system, honourable Member, where pensioners can't go bad. If inflation improves, they will win the difference, if inflation is higher, and then they will receive the total amount retroactively, in a single amount. You have never been able to pay a pension premium in your life, because you have never been able to pursue such an economic policy. This has been the case in the past, and will continue to be the case in the future. Only the Fidesz-KDNP was able to give the pensioners a pension premium, a voucher and a voucher for Elisabeth. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-05-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, How long does the Government take advantage of the patience of the people? Mr Brenner Koloman, from the Jobbik Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-05-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, With a title similar to that of our fellow Members, we are asking questions of this kind here in front of the public in this House and the wider public, in order to show precisely the uncredited policy that Fidesz is pursuing. In this case, as a result of yesterday's events, I would like to point out with some very plastic examples that the policy of Fidesz in the European Union and the European People's Party is incredibly two-faced, not to say, a Kállai double by Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. [[A statement from the Fidesz: Prime Minister!]] as the leader of Fidesz in the European Union, which is not to peak in Kállay's rocking policy, I say to the history majors as well. [[Dr. Bence Rétváry: You're talking to the Jobbik faction.]] After all, let's face it, that those deceived Hungarian citizens who are producing a fake news programme entitled M1, Kossuth Radio, TV2 Facts are still wandering around in the Bermuda Triangle, telling us that we have to fight ugly Brussels, while Viktor Orbán is Brussels himself as well-known, because he is sitting in the European Council between the 28 and slowly 27 prime ministers and decides on all matters that affect our country. Let us therefore look at what happened yesterday in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, where Minister Judit Varga and the Finnish Ambassador informed the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs about the priorities that the Finnish Presidency will follow in the European Union. It is no big deal to predict that this will obviously produce excellent propaganda programmes in the aforementioned Bermuda Triangle, that Fidesz is fighting Brussels in a terrible way, who are horribly [[Change your voice:]] We're being punished for migraine, and we're fighting it, not you, Comrade Tollai. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Did you say that to the history department?]] So, in practice, this kind of hystericalisation will take place here, while here in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, President Zsolt Németh and Minister excellently explain that they actually agree perfectly with the purpose of the rule of law investigation, and we are only engaged in legal nuanced debates on the instruments. Which Fidesz is the real one now: who in the European Parliament votes in favour of the decision condemning the Turkish intervention in Syria, or is Fidesz the one where the Prime Minister here in this pulpit tells us that we are very supportive of Turkey? Make up your mind what position you stand for, fellow Members of the House of Fidesz. So let's move on. In the afternoon, after the morning-out show, Péter Polt, the gold-grade supporter of domestic corruption, was elected, and a cup was handed over yesterday on behalf of my good fellow Members, and Tünde Handó was also elected constitutional judge, as Comrade Stumpf had already become a dangerous dive, the former student of the college's tutoring for the Fidesz staff, we got here, didn't we? I, the problem, remember that, because I still wrote the Constitution with Jóska Szájer in '90, and now his wife will be appointed a judge of the Constitution, all in a European country by the way, well, whatever. [[István Szilárd Németh: Totally stupid! A statement from the Fidesz: Congressman, your speech makes no sense! Dr. Bence Rétvári: Your speech is a little tight. István Szilárd Németh: The History major!]] So, they're unbelievably dirty about the rule of law, while they show out in the morning that everything is okay here, of course, the rule of law can be examined, it's okay, it's just that there's still a little bit of equipment to be refined. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Eagle cabaret! Microscope Stage!]] So they are simply unbelievable to continue the double speech, which I understand, that the Fidesz voters in their Bermuda Triangle are still buying for a while, and then I hope that this will change, but understand that this policy cannot continue forever. You have to decide which one is the real face of the Fidesz. I mean, they drink wine, and they preach outside, and they preach water to Europe. So we have to decide which one is the real face of Fidesz. [[Tibor Bana: Drinking wine and preaching water!]] because they were completely discredited within the People's Party, right, obviously, which just extended their suspension; therefore, what Fidesz asked for, but now they have extended it. [[Intruder from the Fidesz line: That's one more time!]] We understand, comrades, don't we? So you can practice self-criticism, you know, slowly. [[9.50]] Finally, hic Rhodus, hic salta, about the Media Council, show them to allow opposition representatives in, and then we will see that they are serious about the rule of law. [[Interjection in Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-11-05-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Menczer, State Secretary, responds to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-11-05-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I'm sorry, are you all right? [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Tibor Bana: What about you?]] I can't stop thinking about it. Listening to these five minutes, we were wondering between ourselves who you were supposed to answer to. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman to Comrade Tallai.]] But after five minutes it wasn't clear, so it was my turn to represent the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which I was more or less happy to do, of course, and I'm trying to do something about this terrible gibberish... [[An intervention in the ranks of Jobbik: This is the fate of the State Secretarys! György Szilágyi: That's why you get the money!]] Calm down, calm down. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] We've been listening to this terrible thing. Hold on a second. [[György Szilágyi: What are you judging? You're talking about a college teacher! The president's ringing the bell.]] Easy, easy, easy, easy. Calm down, my friends, calm down. I understand, and in your speech, Mr President, the reason for this nonsense can only be traced back to the fact that Jobbik is in fact disappearing and completely collapsing, either on the edge of it or beyond it. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You don't even know what to say anymore.]] For you to say that the government and the governing parties have lost their support, I would like to remind you with great respect that the last ten elections have been won by Fidesz and KDNP, the last three parliamentary elections by a two-thirds majority, and by the way, the last municipal elections have been won. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] You may not have suffered a knockout defeat now, as colleague Völner said, but a scoring signal, but that is no reason to speak with such courage. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Look at Happy István! Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks.]] Mr. Congressman may have spent the night in the Heroes' field in this cold, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are still in constant defeat, despite the fact that you have given up all your previous ideas and political world views if you can call it that with everyone, with the left, with Gyurcs, with the MSZP, with the LMP and with everyone. [[György Szilágyi: This is a sports commentator's exaggeration!]] We can talk about this, I ask you for a moment, but you are, in fact, in a continuous downward spiral. I understand the frustration about this, and I can see that they can't even choose a president anymore. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Choose Gyurcsány to lead Jobbik! Or Dobrev Klara!]] So far, we thought the MSZP was suffering from a lack of cadre, but now we can see that Jobbik is actually facing even bigger problems. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I would like to ask you, in particular, to end the contempt of the Hungarian people. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks.]] And this circus, this charade, this horrible mani-mani-blowing thing you've done here, and you're doing it now, you're gonna have to stop it. I'm sure these walls have seen a lot of things, but that on such a gray Tuesday morning, a congressman stands up, and here he's performing some kind of amazing circus and a lack of quality. [[Gergely Farkas: Are you talking about yourself?]] Well, that's outrageous, after all. That's typical of all of you. [[There are constant interruptions in Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] It's typical of all of you, but it's up to Congressman. I'm asking you to stop doing that, because it's not worthy of you, by the way. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman:]] In particular, stop disdaining the Hungarian people and don't classify those who watch this or that news. Hungarian people have the wisdom to decide who they choose. [[Interjection in the ranks of Jobbik: To be sent away!]] That is why you are not elected, honourable Member. [[Interview in Jobbik: Eger, Dunaújváros!]] As regards foreign policy issues and the Hungarian interest [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Now let's do this.]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Ministry of Foreign Affairs are guided by one thing: representation of Hungarian interest. As far as immigration is concerned, I can see that you have become a migrant friend, honourable Member. [[Delightfulness and sporadic applause in the ranks of Jobbik.]] You came here with this! You came here with this, my dear congressman, which, let's say, explains that these parties, which are sitting behind us, have joined forces. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: The biggest migrant friends are you! Dr. Brenner Koloman: Sit down, Number One. Tibor Bana: Erdoğan! The president's ringing the bell.]] You don't want to protect this country for a long time now, you don't want to protect the borders of the country and the Hungarian people, you want to be virtually exclusive of power, and after you see that this doesn't work, you're making desperate attempts. As for the criticisms abroad, you have once acted decisively against them. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] Now they join the critics of Hungary! ? Along with foreign critics! ? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Sargentini!]] Homeland reviewers! ? I understand the complete division, I see it, but I want you to know that this is nonsense after all. The Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Ministry of Foreign Affairs oppose all foreign criticisms. Last time, the Foreign Minister said in the Netherlands that we would not accept any double standards or unfair criticism. We are not an evicted department of any country, we are not a Member State of any country. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] We accept official visits and fair speeches, we negotiate with everyone. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Audi, BMW, Mercedes!]] but we do not accept any double standards, criticism or unjust accusations that are unworthy of a country with a thousand-year statehood. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] You're in the ravine, and the country's moving forward. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Long applause and interruptions in the ranks of Jobbik, among them: Yes! Long live the party!]]
u2019-11-05-20	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know if you have noticed that the Secretary of State has already finished, so in this sense this applause today is not enough to drown the word. [[Zoltán Balczó: Applause. Interview in Jobbik's ranks: The high standard...]] With all due respect, I'd like to ask you to refrain from doing this kind of thing. Mr Lőrinc Nacsa from the KDNP Group came forward for a speech on current affairs. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-05-21	It's always a pleasure to be so happy. [[Interview in Jobbik's ranks: Go home, there might be...]] Mr President, Dear Parliament, What's going on in Budapest? We could ask the question. [[Interview in the line of Jobbik: The Danube.]] In the three and a half weeks since October 13, we have seen many alarming signals around the House of the opposition rainbow coalition. Let's go over what happened in Budapest in three weeks. One thing's for sure, it's not what they promised. Instead, the pre-2010 world, the Gyurcsány-Demszky era, unfolds in front of us again; what we thought we had left behind. We can clearly see that the values of the coalition from small figures to far-lefts have, if any, given up its principles and boundaries completely for money and power. The first decision was to raise their own salaries in several places, to increase the number of staff members, to increase the number of deputy mayors and deputy mayors. There is no merit requirement or work, and the municipalities are seen as paying places. This is your team from Jobbik to Gyurcsányek. The guardians of Gergely Christmas will be the ones she criticized earlier, now in the position of deputy mayor, five. [[György Szilágyi: You win everywhere, supposedly. The Secretary of State just told me.]] Since he doesn't appreciate these people, as we heard on the recording, it's not hard to think that they're already blackmailing Gergely Christmas. They want to bring back the figures and methods of the Gyurcsány-Demszky era. [[György Szilágyi: You win everywhere.]] Of course, now you want to give me the title of an honorary citizen...
u2019-11-05-22	Congressman Szilágyi, please stop. You are a notary of the Parliament, you have sworn to ensure order in Parliament. Why do I have to withdraw from you in any way? ! Go on, Congressman.
u2019-11-05-23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, now he wants to give Gábor Demszky the new mayor, but after the honors of the eyeballs, why are we surprised? Real ballib pace, this is your team from Gyurcsány to Jobbik. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] In Zugló, in the spirit of transparency, Csaba Horváth wanted to take over almost all the powers, brutally raising the value of the properties he could sell, even though he has a majority of the board. It makes me wonder what he's trying to hide from his own people or what he wants to do, something his own people wouldn't vote for. Of course, in an interview, he lied about not wanting to sell a piece of property, but unfortunately, the kill ads in Népszava betrayed him. In Obuda, too, the socialist mayor wanted to increase his authority, leaving his body out of the decisions. Lies, scams, lack of transparency again. This is your team from Jobbik to Gyurcsányek. The opposition who regularly worried about freedom of the press and their media, which are independent of reality, did not feel the need to speak out against the inability of a newspaper in Budapest, which Gergely Christmas promised, or did not intrude when it turned out that the new Mayor of Ferencváros wanted to personally check every character of the district paper by a typical ballib double standard. This is your team from Jobbik to Gyurcsányek. The reflexes learned during the Gyurcsány-Demszky era keep popping up, people and characters left behind in the past. The Gyurcsány Party XI. Your district mayor would stop building the super hospital while he's worried about the state of health. [[Gergely Arató: He wants you to live in the district, not for you...]] Athletes will join together so that big sporting events, world-class competitions don't fall victim to your petty political thirst for revenge. [[Gergely Arató: You didn't listen when the Prime Minister said he wanted to cooperate with the capital!]] [[10.00]] The opposition's perception of democracy is well reflected in the way in which it is told in advance who can't win an open theatre director's bid; lack of transparency and dishonesty in the capital. This is your team from Jobbik to Gyurcsányek. Ladies and gentlemen, How can an elected politician today at district, capital or parliamentary level think that St. Stephen has no place in the public area named after him? ! The statue of our Founding King, who has bound his country to the Western world and Christianity, and who has left behind warnings that allow us to safely lead a country today, why does it offend your eyes? From now on, what speeches will you make on August 20th? Are they gonna quote George Lukács instead? That's not what they promised. [[Constant intervention from the opposition side.]] You promised to represent everyone, you promised ambitious plans, accountability and transparency. Instead, it looks like they lied in the morning, night and night. The past has come back, and it's just corruption, intransparency, scam, raising a tight circle. [[Intercoms from the opposition side.]] and destruction is now seen in Budapest in the new leadership. What's going on in Budapest? ! [[György Szilágyi: The Danube.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-05-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Szilágyi, if you don't stop, I will be forced to follow the order of business. [[György Szilágyi: Why?]] That's because don't yell at me. I have told you, you are the notary of the Parliament, either resign from that office or try to serve as the notary here in this Chamber. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, responds to the speech before the agenda. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks:]] Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-11-05-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, On behalf of the government, we believe that the agreements that the government has concluded with the outgoing mayor of István Tarlós have remained in force. Our starting point is to establish a fair relationship with all the local leaders elected on 13 October. We believe that the development of Budapest and Budapest is not a political issue, but a joint matter that we owe to voters in Budapest, it does not matter whether they supported a candidate on the left or on the right. By the way, this was also seen in cooperation with István Tarlós. When compared to the previous period of Demszky, we see that in 2010 the capital was an indebted capital, a derelict capital, and then István Tarlós fixed it, and with the help of the government we managed to get rid of the debt trap and set the city on a stable development path. We have said several times that we have taken over 200 billion forints of debt, and the government has given us about 2,000 billion forints of development resources for the development of Budapest, we are talking specifically about Hungarian budgetary resources, of course the final figure can be greater. This is why we have managed to achieve visible results in Budapest. Today it is much better to live in Budapest than it was before 2010. The security of the capital has improved significantly [[Gergely Arató: The voters see this differently.]] The crime rate dropped by 46 percent. Metro 4 is the biggest corruption scandal of all time, and connected to the free Democratic city leadership on the left has been completed, Metro 4 has finally been built, Metro 3 has been renovated. We have handed over new trams and new buses, and there has been a wooding program under the leadership of Mayor István Tarlós in the last nine years. I can say and I think that it is true, in a way that goes beyond the political side, that the capital has evolved. Thus, with a stable budget, a stable financial base, a stable vision and a concept, Mr. Mayor was able to hand over control of Gergely Christmas and his team in the capital. It follows, however, that, in parallel, the government said that the agreements that we had previously concluded should be kept. Development resources previously promised by the government to the city will continue to be provided. He asks one thing, that the Metropolitan Assembly say yes or no, choose between black and white, tell us which developments it supports and which developments it does not support. We think that, against the elected city leaders, even if we think that these developments are useful and are in the interests of the people of Budapest, there is no way to get a settlement from one to two. In this way, we ask that the Metropolitan Assembly decide what it would like to do by 15 November. And to show once again that the conditions that István Tarlós has been given are also given to Gergely Christmas, he will be among the invited guests at the government's meeting tomorrow in relation to the items on the agenda for Budapest. So you can personally explain your programme and what developments you support and what improvements you do not support. However, we would like to ask, in exchange for this, that a city be created that is indeed for the benefit of the people of Budapest and not for the survival of the political potentates of the post-communist left and free Democratic side; that the authority given to them by the Hungarian people is not used, as it was before 2010, to make you rich, to serve your own interests alone, but to use it to develop the city because it is the capital of the nation, and it is the home of the people of Budapest, so it is our shared responsibility that the development path to which the city has been able to stand for the last nine years remains on it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-05-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr János Halász, Member of the Fidesz Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-05-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungarian economic policy has come a long way over the past decade. For the first time in the nine years since 2010, we created and defended our independence. The most important task of the years ahead will also be to strengthen this national sovereignty. This requires a strong and successful economy, led by an independent and determined economic policy, which has been pursued in recent years. Since we turned our backs on the bad economic policy of the Balliberians, Hungary has been doing better. It is sad here in this House to listen to the opposition's economic promises, the opposition who destroyed the country during the governance of Gyurcsány and the socialists, destroyed the economy and made one million people unemployed. With a series of tax increases and restrictions, they destroyed businesses and families and humiliatingly worked people for low wages. Their incompetence and irresponsible financial policies have put the country's financial stability at risk. They were constantly overspending, doubling public debt, and losing investor confidence. It's outrageous that there are still promises made by those who have ruined the country by their incompetence. Since 2010, loans from the IMF and the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government have been repaid from the European Union. Our national independence was then attacked by more attacks; during the time of the reduction, it was financial, and several times between 2015 and 19 they tried to force us to open the Hungarian borders to immigrants. In contrast to these attacks, we have successfully defended the country on every occasion. In recent years, the growth of the Hungarian economy has not only been extremely high, but it is one of the highest in the European Union and has also been at the forefront in the Central European region. Since the government of Fidesz-KDNP, taxes have been falling, wages are rising, 800,000 more people are working, unemployment has fallen by one-third, and the performance of the Hungarian economy has increased by more than 25 percent. The difference between the growth of Central and Eastern European countries and the current performance of the Hungarian economy is ensured by the Hungarian economic policy and the economic protection action plan. In the coming years, we will focus all resources on creating a strong Hungarian economy. This is a condition that we can continue to support families and protect the value of pensions. The budget is stable and outstanding economic growth ensures adequate coverage of family support decisions taken during the year. More than 65,000 people have already been involved in the family protection action plan. [[10.10]] The actions of the action plan together amount to HUF 650 billion in support, which has already arrived at the families. The family home - making discount has already helped half a million people to get home. By the end of August this year, 114,000 families requested support. The amount reaches HUF 340 billion, which means that these families had to spend much less on home-building. Last year, tax cuts left some HUF 290 billion in families with children, the population and businesses. The Hungarian economy is performing better, the aim is to keep growth at least 2 percentage points above the EU average. To this end, we have launched the Economic Protection Action Plan, which covers areas that are particularly important for Hungarian economic growth. These include job creation, small businesses, tourism, construction, agriculture. Since 2010, 800,000 more people have worked and unemployment has fallen from 12 percent to 3.5 percent. We value workers, so the increase in wages is also two figures this year. Net earnings rose from 135 thousand forints to 239 thousand forints compared to 2010, which represents an 80 percent increase. Pensioners should also benefit from the economic results, so there is once again a pension premium, for the third time in Hungary's history. This year, it will be higher than ever, and about two and a half million will benefit from it. The Hungarian economy remains stable, the deficit and public debt continued to decline. We must continue to protect the results of the Hungarian economy, and in the slowing European and global economy environment we must keep growth above the EU average by 2 percent. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-05-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-11-05-29	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As you pointed out in your speech, the Hungarian economy in 2013 [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] moving towards a healthier and more balanced growth structure. GDP data have also demonstrated a stable structure, because growth is on many feet. Almost all sectors supported it. Hungary is therefore on the right track, since the structure of economic growth has become sustainable in the long term. Although the external environment was less supportive, 2018 was a particularly good year for the Hungarian economy, thanks to the revival of internal growth engines, which has been implemented over the past period, mainly as a result of the wage and tax agreement concluded at the government's initiative in November 2016. Thanks to this, for the whole year [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] GDP grew by 5.1 percent. The sustainability of the expansion is also confirmed by internal and external balance indicators. The budget-to-GDP deficit is stable below 3 per cent, the household savings rate is high, the country's funding capacity is both positive. Following a 4.3 percent increase in 2017, the Hungarian economy accelerated significantly in 2018 as well. This figure continued to increase in the first two quarters of this year. The rate of growth continued to rise and increase. The continuing growth rate is linked, inter alia, to the following factors. The first is the government measures, the tax and wage agreement, the programme for the more competitive Hungary, housing subsidies and state investments. Overall, this contributed 1.6 percentage points to growth. The other factor is the increase in public consumption supported by better employment and wage catch-up. The third is the newly built export capacities. The fourth factor is the efficient use of EU funds. The factors listed are also reflected in the positive performance of the production side. In spite of developments over the past period, the industry with increased capacity, low external demand in the first half of the year and infirm German industrial output increased by 4 percent in the second quarter. During the first half of 2019, a 19 percent increase resulted in an overall HUF 4088 billion development in Hungary, on the basis of which outstanding economic growth was significantly supported by investments. The second quarter contributed to this performance with a total investment of HUF 2400 billion, an increase of 18.8 percent. The momentum of investments is shown by a 4.1 percent increase compared to the first quarter in the second quarter of this year. In addition to increasing the capacity of businesses, the development of new EU funds has also played a role in the growth of investment activity. The investment activity of the largest manufacturing industry, with a weight of almost one third, increased by 30 percent in the second quarter of 2019. It is beneficial that, partly due to the booming real estate development, investment in real estate transactions in the sector increased by 14.6 percent and as a result of the boosted infrastructure developments, the performance of the transport and storage sector increased by 19.7 percent in the quarter of the year concerned. The state of public finances is also stable. On the revenue side, budgetary processes have continued to be supported by the tax and contribution surplus linked to dynamic economic growth. Dear Parliament, In view of the outstanding economic performance of previous years, the continuation of growth is also well established, based on three pillars: the exploitation of labour reserves, investments in expansion capacity and technological improvements to improve efficiency. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This ensures that there will continue to be outstanding, outstanding economic growth in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-05-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. It's 10:17. We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. My fellow Members, please take your seats. Check that your card has been properly placed in the voting machine. There follows the T/7687 between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the publication of the Convention on the Mutual Recognition of Certificates and Certificates of Scientific Degrees issued in Hungary and the Republic of Serbia. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/7687. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 160 votes in favour, without voting against or abstaining. We now have T/7689 on the announcement of the Convention on cooperation and mutual assistance in the event of disasters between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Georgia. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/7689. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 161 votes in favour, without voting against or abstaining. [[10.20]] The European Agreement on the Marking of Road Works in Geneva, Geneva, 19 September 1949, 19 September 1949, Geneva, 16 September 1950, 16 September 1950, supplementing the Convention on Road Transport and the Protocol on Road Marks signed in Geneva on 19 September 1949 and the Protocol on Road Marks, the Agreement on the Marking of Road Works in Geneva, 16 December 1955 and T/7691 on the Publication of the European Convention on Road Markings, which complements the Convention on Road Traffic in Geneva in 1949 and the Protocol on Road Marks in 1949, signed on 16 September 1950, and the Protocol on the Publication of the European Convention on Road Marking in Geneva, 13 December 1957. Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur was Mr T/7691/2. has submitted an adjustment, which is available to all of us on the network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/7691. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the adjusted bill with 164 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday, the Parliament has already held a hearing on these matters. I ask you, you will be included in a series of articles between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the People's Republic of China by our Lóránt Keresztes Lóránt LMP representative, group leader and fellow Members, on the development, construction and closure of the Hungarian phase of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line project, H/7018. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not take the proposal for a resolution into consideration by 43 votes in favour, 117 against and 5 abstentions. I ask you, with reference to the Convention on cooperation between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Russian Federation on the peaceful use of nuclear energy by Lóránt Keresztes Lóránt LMP Group leader and his fellow Members, H/7068. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution with 25 votes in favour, 116 against and 22 abstentions. I ask you, you will be included in a series of articles entitled Human and Minority Rights and Organizations, H/6417, by the DK Group leader and colleagues of Ferenc Gyurcsány. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament has not included the proposal for a resolution in a series of articles by 25 votes in favour, 122 against and 1 abstention. I ask you, you will include the 2011 CCII on the use of Hungary's coat of arms and flag and state medals by János Bencsik and György Szilágyi. T/7523. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 47 votes in favour, 115 votes against and two abstentions. I ask you, you will include in a series of articles the amendment of Act C of 2012 on the Criminal Code, T/7082, by Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi and János Stummer, our better colleagues, in order to ensure effective action against animal torturers. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 49 votes in favour, 110 against and four abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows that the decision on the personal proposal for the election of officials and members of the ad hoc committee to appoint members of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority will be taken. S/7894 put forward by the President Proposal No 1 can be found on the House's website for everyone. I would ask Mr Attila Gelencsér to explain the contents of the personal proposal. Here you go, notary.
u2019-11-05-31	On the basis of points 4 to 6 of the parliamentary decision establishing an ad hoc committee to appoint members of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, the National Assembly elects the following officials and members of the ad hoc committee. President: János Halász, Fidesz. Vice President: Dr. Brenner Koloman, Jobbik. Members: László Szászfalvi, KDNP; dr. Zita Gurmai, MSZP; Zsolt Gréczy, DK; dr. László Keresztes, LMP; Kocsis-Cake Olivio, Dialogue. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. Budapest, 5 November 2019, Kövér László.
u2019-11-05-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept S/7894. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the personal proposal by 158 votes to one, with five abstentions. Dear Parliament, Next up is 5/2018 on the establishment of committees, election of officials and members of Parliament. A decision has been taken. S/7895 tabled by the President Some of us have been able to get to know it on the website. I would like to ask Mr László Varga to present the content of the personal proposal put forward by the President. Here you go, notary.
u2019-11-05-33	Point 1 of the Parliamentary Decision of 8 October 2018 on the establishment, election of Parliamentary committees, officials and members is hereby amended as follows. On the National Security Committee, the Parliament elects Dr. László Lukács György, Jobbik, Chairman of the Committee, to replace Ádám Mirkóczki, Jobbik, as president of the National Security Committee. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. Budapest, 5 November 2019, Kövér László.
u2019-11-05-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept S/7895. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the personal proposal by 158 votes to one, with four abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, We've reached the end of the decisions. Now it's a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break.]] [[10.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, Please take your seats, as well as those of our fellow Members who intend to leave the Chamber in connection with their urgent official affairs, do so as soon as possible so that we can continue the meeting. I would also ask my fellow members of the Government to take their seats, not to prevent the Ministers and State Secretary from taking their seats or leaving the Chamber. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill to amend certain laws relating to forensic enforcement will follow until closure. The government referral is T/7844. On the parliamentary IT network, it is available to all of them. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-11-05-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill before you contains amendments to the legal provisions concerning the transfer of enforcement cases to the State tax and customs authorities in the jurisdictions of the courts. The recovery of judicial claims and claims by the State should be a matter of civil or criminal costs or fines in the future, in the event of the adoption of the bill, fall within the remit of the State tax and customs authorities. With the final transfer of tasks, the status of forensic executives will also cease, but the enforcement of private claims will remain the competence of the independent judicial enforcer. The main aim of the bill is to ensure that the treatment of tax debts, public debts to be recovered as a result of taxes, as well as obligations under the applicable rules in the enforcement procedure of forensic executives, is carried out on the same principles as in the framework of a uniform set of rules. The State Tax and Customs Authority shall act as a general administrative enforcement body as from 1 January 2018 in accordance with the provisions of the General Administrative Regulation Act. This means that, as a general rule, the State tax and customs authorities implement tax debts, public debts and other public debts, such as public claims, also on the basis of the Act on enforcement procedures to be implemented by the tax authority as from 1 January 2018. Currently, enforcement cases falling within the functions of the forensic executives in the system of the court are carried out by the Forensic Executor on the basis of the provisions of the law on judicial enforcement, i.e. the provisions of the Vht. It is important to point out that in 2017 the Government agreed in its decision on certain measures necessary for the implementation of the State's tax and customs duties that the implementation of forensics should be carried out in part by the State tax and customs authorities as from 1 January 2019. Accordingly, the law on enforcement procedures to be implemented by the tax authority and the law on the application of the tax administration. As of 1 January 2019, it already provides for the rules of competence for the implementation of new tasks under which enforcement procedures under the jurisdiction of forensic executives, which were ordered after 1 January 2019, are already implemented by the State tax and customs authorities. The transfer-over of new tasks is currently taking place in several stages between the Forensic Executor and the State Tax and Customs Authority, and therefore the Code on tax enforcement and judicial enforcement also lays down transitional provisions to ensure that transfer-taking is carried out more effectively. In accordance with the transitional rules in force, enforcement documents to be issued after 31 December 2018 and in so-called new cases, the State tax and customs authorities are already acting, but the former cases are still carried out by the Forensic Executor. The timetable for the cases to be handed over has been set out as follows. The enforcement court shall refer cases pending on 31 December 2019 to the State tax and customs authorities by 31 January 2020 and the administrative termination cases by 31 December 2020. In the light of the electronic procedures of the State tax and customs authorities, the cases concerned may only be transferred by electronic means, which imposes a number of administrative tasks and burdens on the parties. It is certainly worth mentioning that the bill contains a specific provision in the context of the regulation of the waiver of State claims by forensic executives not to be transferred to the State tax and customs authorities. In the event of the adoption of the bill, the State shall waive the claims of the State still outstanding on 31 December 2019 in respect of the enforceable instrument issued prior to 1 January 2019 under the jurisdiction of the Forensic Executors which have lapsed or have been declared irrecoverable. The State also waives the claims of less than HUF 200 thousand issued before 1 January 2019 and waives the claims of the State directly due on 31 December 2019 in cases opened before 1 January 2010. The exception to these categories is criminal claims and matters covered by criminal proceedings, as well as by financial and financial restrictive measures imposed by the European Union and the UN Security Council. It should be stressed that the bill establishes, in accordance with the Public Finance Act, the legal basis for the waiver of outstanding State claims in pending and administrative termination enforcement cases under the law on enforcement procedures to be implemented by the tax authority. [[10.40]] In order to facilitate the application of the law, the provision relating to the waiver of claims is assisted by the transitional provision in Vht. on the grounds that this law regulates and regulates the procedural provisions relating to the matters concerned in the past. As a follow-up to what has been said so far, this bill also assigns to the State tax and customs authorities, which are currently in the jurisdiction of the Forensic Executor, in accordance with the Government's decision and decision in 2017. According to the bill, the State tax and customs authorities will therefore implement the ongoing enforcement procedures after 1 January 2020 in addition to the enforcement cases ordered after 1 January 2019. It is important that a period of one month has been set for the transfer of pending enforcement cases, i.e. pending cases will be transferred to the State tax and customs authorities from 1 January to 31 January 2020. In view of the scale of the transversal cases, on the basis of the bill, cases are suspended for 30 days from the date of their receipt to the State tax and customs authorities. This provision was made in order to ensure the continued care of the transversal cases. Although administratively completed, interruptible enforcement procedures will be handed over after the transfer of pending cases until 31 December 2020, it should be pointed out that, in the event of the adoption of the bill, procedural rules will be contained in the law on enforcement procedures to be implemented by the tax authority only from 1 January 2020 in all cases affected by forensic enforcement, as regards the State tax and customs authorities and the determining body. Dear House, In view of this, with effect from 1 January 2020, forensic enforcement as a task will be removed from the court's system of organisation and the final deadline for the transfer of pending cases will be 31 January 2020. In the context of the transfer of enforcement cases, it is also worth mentioning that, since, both during the period covered by the transfer and thereafter, there may be an obligation to take action that the forensic administrator is no longer able to carry out on account of the termination of the status, the bill appoints another judicial staff member, the court secretary, to take the necessary measures. In the context of the transfer of tasks, the bill also contains clarification of other laws, in addition to the appropriate amendment of the law on enforcement procedures to be implemented by the Vht. and the tax administration. In particular, the bill also makes the necessary amendments to ensure the coherence of the legal system in respect of, inter alia, the levy law, the law on the service of judicial staff and the law on criminal law measures applicable to the legal person, the law on cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union and the law on criminal proceedings. Dear Parliament, Allow me to say a few words about certain additional provisions of the bill before you, in addition to the question of the transfer of enforcement cases to the state tax and customs authorities, without the need for completeness. In addition to certain legislation on judicial matters, the bill contains clear and clear amendments to the application of legislation on criminal law and financial matters. It is worth mentioning that, in order to ensure a uniform designation in the legal system, the concept of criminal detention in Vht. is replaced by the concept of entry into criminal proceedings in all relevant legal places. Therefore, the Vht will be clarified. in addition to the law on the settlement of debts of natural persons and the provision of the Civil Procedure Act. In order to fully comply with the EU Directive on criminal sanctions for market abuse, the bill makes technical clarification, as proposed by the European Commission, of the facts of the criminal code governing the illicit market manipulation. The purpose of the amendment is to make the facts more flexible, so that criminal proceedings can respond appropriately to new forms of trading and abusive new strategies affecting the market, which are not yet known or at least not widespread, while at the same time for its purpose. It is appropriate to say a few words about the fact that the Constitutional Court suspended the legislator in June 2019 in relation to the regulation of criminal costs incurred in repeated criminal proceedings. According to the Panel, the repeated procedure is essentially due to the errors of the determining authority or the court, so that the adverse consequences of the failure to do so cannot be attributed to the defendant. The fundamental requirement of the rule of law is that the burden should be exempted from the burden of bearing the criminal costs incurred as a result. The Constitutional Court concluded that the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act are not clear enough in this context, that there is no specific guarantee that the burden will be exempted from the costs associated with the repeated procedure. The bill clarifies the law on criminal proceedings in accordance with this requirement, while at the same time stating that the discharge of the burden should not apply to criminal costs incurred in connection with its failure. It should also be noted that the bill contains further amendments to the law on enforcement procedures to be implemented by the tax authority, in addition to the settlement of rules on the transfer of enforcement cases to the State tax and customs authorities, which fall within the remit of forensic executives, in order to standardise the case law. Among other things, the bill settles the different rules for the execution of movable or immovable property used in the public employment programme, which is the property of the public employee and which is currently in the process of being implemented against the debtor who is a public employer. It also allows, in the case of movable property not taken over by the debtor in the course of electronic movable auctions or purchased by the auction buyer but not taken over, the use of such movable property for charity purposes instead of destruction. In the context of the rules for the termination of the enforcement procedure, the regulation is amended by requiring the tax authority to act in the event of the death of the debtor and, in the event of the adoption of the bill, the publication of a notice for the continuous auctioning of agricultural land in the course of the procedure of the State tax and customs authorities, as in the case of the adoption of the bill. It is necessary to note that the bill also includes an amendment to the Act on the Rules of Taxation and to the Act on Tax Administration, which aims to introduce a new legal institution which can be used before the enforcement procedure and to facilitate a more transparent register of irrecoverable claims by the tax authorities. The bill also amends the use of intermediate organisations in the enforcement procedure, which facilitates legal certainty and reduces the delay in procedures. If the bill is adopted, the implementation measures of the tax authority will be further followed, and payment facilitation procedures will be simplified. Dear Parliament, Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the need to amend the lower level of legislation directly linked to the subject matter of the bill if the bill is adopted. These changes will, of course, be made later this year. In closing, allow him to highlight the following. The bill is a carefully prepared piece of legislation aimed at establishing a coherent set of rules to implement the Government's decision. The amendments presented are necessary in view of the complexity of the legal system and the logical relationship between individual laws in order to facilitate uniform application of the law. I ask this House, with its vote in favour, to contribute to the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-05-36	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr István Vitányi. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[10.50]]
u2019-11-05-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill before us aims to ensure the consistency of the legal system in order to ensure the consistency of the standard for enforcement procedures. The general administrative procedure entered into force on 1 January 2018 is 134. § 2 of the Act states that the various enforcement acts are carried out by the State tax and customs authorities, unless otherwise provided for in the law. According to that legislation, the National Tax and Customs Office will operate as a general administrative enforcement body as of 1 January 2018, i.e. it will be responsible for carrying out tax debts, public debts to be recovered, other public debts to be recovered as well as for carrying out the acts specified in the procedure. The law on enforcement procedures to be implemented by the tax authority, as a separate procedural law, provides for the regulation of all of this. Dear House, The Government Decision provides that the NAV will also carry out forensic enforcement tasks as from 1 January 2019. It can be concluded that the sole responsibility of the NAV has been to implement State and judicial claims and to implement the material disadvantages of the enforcement of procedural acts or established in the course of the proceedings. The proposal submitted also covers the transfer of enforcement cases to the tax authority in several steps. Since the implementation of ongoing enforcement tasks will become an obligation of the NAV as of 1 January 2020 as a result of which forensic enforcement as a task will be removed from the system of the court organisation and the legal status of the Forensic Executor will be terminated. As a result, Vht, Ávt, becomes indispensable for the coherence of the domestic legal system. , and amendments to the law on the service of judicial staff and other related laws. I consider it important to stress that, with the cessation of the executive powers of the Tribunal, the introduction of particularly important detailed rules and conceptual clarifications, including asset confiscation, detention in criminal proceedings and the implementation of certain financial and financial restrictive measures, has been justified. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal submitted also contains a very forward-looking amendment to Avt. that allows NAV to have the right time to process the transferred cases. In this way, the enforcement procedure shall cease in cases pending on 31 December 2019, which shall be 30 days from the date of receipt of the request for enforcement by the tax authority. I would like to highlight a number of other amendments concerning the Av. that wish to ensure the effective implementation of the implementation procedure. The proposal provides for a case of enforcement against a debtor who is a public employee. In this case, for reasons of significant public interest in the success of public employment programmes, the sale of the property seized from the debtor and covered by the public employment programme shall take place only after the end of the programme. The proposal submitted also states that if enforcement is intended solely for the recovery of a tax debt and the debtor dies, the procedure will be terminated with the death of the debtor ipso jure. In the case of movable property not taken over by the debtor in the course of electronic auctions or purchased by the auction buyer, the proposal allows them to be used for charity instead of destruction. Dear Parliament, In addition to ensuring the coherence of the legal order, the bill on the House's table intends to introduce, on the one hand, a new legal institution which can be used before the enforcement procedure and, on the other hand, to facilitate a more transparent register of irrecoverable claims by the tax authorities. In view of the above, the proposal submitted is supported by the Fidesz Group. I ask all my fellow Members to do the same. Thank you for listening. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-05-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker for the Jobbik Group is Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm, who is speaking from this platform. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-11-05-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/7844 in front of us. The main aim of the bill was to amend forensic implementation and other legislation. The general justification is that the Act on General Administrative Rules is No 134. § 2 of the Act provides that the State tax and customs authorities shall implement the implementation of the legislation on enforcement. In view of this, the State tax and customs authorities will act as general administrative enforcement bodies as from 1 January 2018. The 2017 CL on the Rules of Taxation also entered into force on 1 January 2018. LXIII of 2017 on the implementation procedures to be implemented by the tax authority. A separate procedural law has therefore been adopted for all enforcement procedures to be implemented by the State tax and customs authorities. Forensic executions are carried out by forensic executors today within the system of judicial organisation, but on the basis of a government decision on certain measures necessary for the performance of the enforcement tasks of the State tax and customs authorities, forensic enforcement tasks will be performed by the State tax and customs authorities from 1 January 2019. In view of this, the legislator has decided that the Forensic Executors will cease to exist and that their duties will be taken over by the tax and customs authorities. This proposal is basically used to implement this. In this proposal, the concept of criminal lockdown is replaced throughout our legal system by the concept of lockdown in criminal proceedings, given that this terminology has been defined as such in one legislation and the other legislation, and it was therefore, of course, justified to standardise the designation of this institution in the legal system. To this end, a number of legislation had to be amended in order to harmonise legislation which provides for a system of the institution in any way. In order to enable the tax and customs authorities to deal with these matters in their new task system, the State shall waive, with two exceptions, the recovery of the outstanding claims on the State until 31 December 2019 which have expired or which have been declared irrecoverable, and shall also waive the recovery of claims of less than HUF 200,000 issued before 1 January 2019 in cases opened before 1 January 2010 which still exist on 31 December of this year. I would like to take some time here, if I may, fellow Members. Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, probably felt that I would add something else to this in addition to the general legal justification. And that is, if it really is that the government has given up the claim of the simple shoemaker or tailor, then I say that this may even be justified in their situation. I am very concerned, however, that the implementation procedures launched by 2010 will also be covered by this, where there may be serious income tax debts for businesses with significant turnover. So I am already indicating that, waiting for a 60-day period after the entry into force of this legislation, until all of this is carried out by the authority, I am going to ask myself what structure the group of taxpayers has become, to whom tax debts have been released and to what extent, because I am very concerned that the aim of this is that those who have accumulated huge tax debts cannot be recovered from them, until then they have not dared to obtain any property registered in Hungary that can then be included in the implementation. I very much hope that the rich, non-tax-paying people will not benefit from this provision. Based on these basic principles, the law has amended countless of our laws. I wouldn't read it one by one, because that's what Mr. Secretary of State has told me. However, it is a fact that this legislation is not only aimed at standardising forensic implementation and terminology, but also a somewhat salad law, since it also changes the detailed rules of other legal institutions. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: § 2 of the EU Parliament and Council Directive 2014/57 of 16 April 2014 fully transposing Article 5 (2) of Directive 2014/57 of the European Parliament and of the Council as a result of a professional consultation with the European Commission. [[11.00]] What are we talking about here? Our criminal code is 411. Paragraph 1 (1) (a) had to be amended, because the European Commission considered the criminal facts of illegal market manipulation not to be fully covered by the Hungarian legislation, in order to allow for the inclusion in the scope of pedalisation of facts that may not be covered by the existing legislation for the future. In criminal proceedings, the issue of criminal costs is the next such proposal, an amendment, which was also mentioned by the State Secretary. It is very often necessary to pursue repeated proceedings in criminal proceedings, in the repeated procedure almost the same criminal costs as in the main proceedings, and in such a way that the person concerned would not be burdened with these costs, since he did not give rise to the repeated procedure, but the courts imposed these obligations on them. In this respect, the Constitutional Court has stated that the Parliament is in breach of the law by default, and with this proposal, the legislator intends to eliminate this violation. In this legislation, it provides for a very important, long-time inadequately regulated institutional system. This is also the case where there is a civil enforcement claim for an asset and also a criminal claim; a criminal lockdown for compensation for damage resulting from criminal proceedings or criminal offences has been imposed. Very often there has been a collision between these two institutions, now this legislation amends this and is quasi-regulating a very wide range of regulatory substances. The main element of this is that if a civil enforcement claim for property and a criminal enforcement claim occur simultaneously, if civil law enforcement law has been entered into the property before the criminal claim arose, the civil law claim will prevent criminal law. And in the event that the property has more satisfaction funds, it will, of course, be possible to make a criminal claim after the civil claim has been met. They make up for a very old claim in the 39th century. As described in paragraph 5. This is that, on many occasions, tax enforcement against a taxpayer has started with overpayments in respect of another type of tax. It's been a lot of trouble for the taxpayers. However, I do not understand why we had to wait 32 years for the institution of the administrative transfer to be introduced by the legislator, which is very simply that if a taxpayer has a tax liability in one of the tax categories, it will be taxed, and it will have an overpayment in respect of any other tax category or amount of duty paid but not refunded, it will simply be seen by the authority on the basis of the registration data, it will transfer the overpayment to the non-refunded tax, and in this respect it can either be completely waived from tax execution or it will remain only for a partial amount. I think that this was a decent job from the government, and I stress that I really don't understand why we had to wait 32 years for this. In 1987, this could have been introduced into the first Tax Procedure Act. The proposal is 53. §2 introduces a highly specific regulation, which is that, when public workers are employed by an entrepreneur and enforcement is carried out against the contractor on account of any of his debts, in such a case, the public employees were primarily involved in situations of extreme inconvenience, because in the event that the movable property contained in his public employment programme is carried out, the public employment programme cannot be implemented. This is the outcome of this legislative amendment proposal, since it is a major public interest to complete the Public Employment Programme. Thus, this proposal states that, in the event that the property seized from the debtor is involved in the public employment programme, the sale of that property can only be started once the public employment programme has been completed. But if there is already an important legislative amendment proposal in the system of implementation before this House, then we assume that the Ministry of Justice has been very careful with the institution of implementation and that in this respect I would like to put forward a few demands to the Ministry, so I hope that Minister of State will also listen to me. And this is the next one. I would finally expect the legislator to say, in respect of enforceable assets in implementation, that the minimum amount of living money cannot be put under execution. Why would I say that would be justified? If anyone has met with such enforcement cases, they can see that 33 percent of the social benefits of 50-60 thousand forints, public employment wages, are deducted, so that it is impossible to survive from one month to another in Hungary today under 90 thousand forints. Whoever can do this is a miracle. We see more and more of them taking our last penny from our bank accounts, which means there's nothing to fund their life support. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights addresses in several articles the issues that have justified my claim to the Ministry. On the one hand, Article 3 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights provides that every person has the right to life, freedom and personal security. Article 5 provides that no one is to be subjected to inhumane treatment, which is otherwise subject to Article III of our Fundamental Law. Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 also states that the provisions of Article 3 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall apply. Article 23 provides for the guarantee of human dignity in all States. Article 25 says that everyone has the right to food, clothing, and housing to ensure his well-being. This is, by the way, our Fundamental Law XXII. This article is also addressed to the European Economic and Social Committee. In this way, I therefore expect the judicial government to submit to Parliament a proposal amending the law on enforcement that amounts below a certain amount cannot be deducted either from a bank account or from income, so that the amount of money needed to sustain life must always be available. I think with a social debate, you can figure out what that amount is. I think 90,000 forints would be fair, but you can't keep on saying that people can't eat because they're starving, because they're freezing in their homes because they can't heat because the enforcer's taking our last penny. The following is what I would expect, and that is the implementation of the real estate for the housing of the debtor and their families, without any other suitable placement, the eviction cannot be carried out. We've seen what's been going on in our country for years. The irresponsible lending placed tens of thousands in our country to be thrown out of their homes without accommodation. I just mentioned the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the provisions of our Fundamental Law. These rules also serve this purpose. I expect the judicial government to submit to the House an amendment to the law on enforcement in order to ensure the housing of the debtor and his family members, even if the property is the subject of execution, eviction cannot take place until they are properly accommodated. The third, which I would expect from the judicial government, I hope they will do so as soon as possible, because it is very simple: they must have met a situation, I very often, when executives have been drawing their debts from debtors' incomes for years, without having to account for it on one occasion. Imagine, I met a family where, ten years ago, both members of the married couple had paid the claim and had not received a single settlement in ten years. Then, when he was asked by a giant circus, it turned out that he wasn't supposed to take a penny for four years. Therefore, I expect the judicial government to amend the implementing law as such so that the enforcer has to draw up detailed and detailed accounts for each amount received and always show how much the debtor still has to pay on the day on which the return was made. Until they do, executors consider their activities to be free robbery, and a crowd of people have to pay money that doesn't come with it. Moreover, these amounts are not allocated to those seeking enforcement. So the shock is that the tax is no longer due, not yet the one asking for implementation, but the executives are very rich with these amounts. So I ask that I think that this is my most serious and powerful request to the judicial government that if it is to create a fair Hungary, it will resolve these unblessed situations with legislative amendments. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] [[11.10]]
u2019-11-05-40	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Imre Vejkey. Happy birthday, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-05-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for your welcome, fellow Members. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We Christian Democrats believe it is important that in recent years we have been able to get Parliament to approve the renewal of the judicial enforcement investigation system, and to extend the obligation to make declarations of assets to court executioners, to abolish irregular inks, to extend the scope of the right to use the vehicle seized in the course of execution, to reduce the recovery commission of the executives and to reduce the cost margin that they can charge. Nevertheless, we have received attacks on the subject of judicial executions that in recent years we have not done anything in favour of debtors in relation to enforcement. In addition to what I said in my introduction to these siren sounds, I intend to say that in recent years Fidesz-KDNP has gradually tightened the personal and material conditions for executive work, adapting the higher requirements for personnel to the tasks performed. In the spring of 2017, I initiated T/14298 myself. under the figure "Vht." Mr Péter Harrach and Mr Miklós Soltész, who was elected by the Parliament on 7 March 2017, with 165 votes in favour and 1 votes against. The amendment was published on 16 March 2017 at XIV. in the form of a law. This new amended law, the amendment to Vht., concluded as a new rule that during the enforcement procedure, sales must ensure that the most occupied property is sold at the highest possible price. In doing so, we have ensured that residential property is sold at least in value, avoiding sales at too low prices. As a new rule, the Vht. amendment also ensured that, in the course of the enforcement procedure for the recovery of contractual claims with the consumer, at least at the starting price for the auctioning of residential property, instead of the previous 70 percent, a valid purchase offer may be made. Ladies and Gentlemen, T/7844. The main objective of this bill is to ensure that the recovery of judicial claims and claims by the State, whether in civil or criminal terms, is carried out by the executives and not by the NAV in the future. As the recovery of judicial claims would be reversed, the status of forensic executioners would also be abolished, but for the time being, the circle of independent judicial executioners would remain as regards the enforcement of private claims. This means that, with the transfer of enforcement cases to the NAV, as of 1 January 2020, forensic enforcement as a task will be permanently removed from the court's system of organisation and the forensic executive as a legal entity will cease to exist. The final deadline for the transfer of pending enforcement cases would be 31 January 2020. In the context of the final transfer of tasks, it is necessary to amend a number of laws, such as the amendment of the law on fees, the amendment of the law on judicial enforcement, the amendment of the law on fees and the amendment of the law on administrative service charges for certified property copies, the amendment of the Law on the registration of property registrations, the amendment of the law on partial reimbursement of registration taxes, the amendment of the Act on the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and the amendment or repeal of the special provisions on forensic executives in respect of the Law on criminal cooperation with the Member States of the European Union. Ladies and Gentlemen, I do not wish to repeat before me what Parliamentary Secretary Pál Völner said in his expo and what my fellow Member István Vitányi said in his speech as a keynote speaker, so I do not comment on the details of the above. Ladies and Gentlemen, However, I think it is important to stress that, in order to ensure the coherence of our legal system, it is necessary to replace the concept of "crime" published in Vht. with the concept of "locking" in proceedings. In view of this, not only would the law on judicial enforcement be amended, but also the law on investment firms, as well as the law on debt settlement for natural persons and the civil order law. Ladies and Gentlemen, I also consider it important to stress that the Hungarian State waives the claims of the State which were outstanding on 31 December 2019 on 31 December 2019 relating to the enforcement instruments issued before 1 January 2019 and which have lapsed or have been declared irrecoverable. The Hungarian State also waives the claims of less than HUF 200 thousand issued prior to 1 January 2019 and waives the claims of the State on 31 December 2019 in cases that started before 1 January 2010. Ladies and Gentlemen, Last but not least, I think it is necessary to inform you that, in order to fully comply with the EU directives on criminal sanctions for market abuse, the bill also contains technical clarification in line with the Commission's proposal. in relation to the legal situation governing the illicit market manipulation. In addition, on the basis of the decision of the Constitutional Court in June 2019, the bill clarifies the regulation of criminal costs incurred in repeated court proceedings in respect of the exemption imposed on the defendant. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, please support T/7844 on the amendment of certain laws relating to forensic enforcement. Bill No. 1. The KDNP parliamentary faction supports it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-05-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the group of the MSZP is Mr László Varga, notary of the Parliament. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-11-05-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the fact is that we can talk about implementation in connection with a law before Parliament, so it gives us the opportunity to talk about some of the basic social problems in the first place, and this was partly affected by my fellow Member Andrea Varga-Damm. Let me refer to some of the life situations that need to be said about this. I think that two directions to the social problems that need to be highlighted are absolutely important. On the one hand, implementation obviously affects the liquidity and monthly revenues of a Hungarian citizen, a Hungarian family. In this context, what has been said is very important, and I can fully agree that the minimum maintenance of life must be ensured for all Hungarians, for all Hungarian families. [[11.20]] Over the past decade, we have heard of countless fates that are shocking, and we have experienced such fates during various enforcement procedures, often unjustly, the many skins have been skinned off of Hungarians. This cannot go on, I think that the basic conditions must be guaranteed for everyone. On the other hand, it is housing that should indeed be a fundamental right, the right conditions for everyone, which should also affect implementation. I can agree that, in fact, this type of implementation can only be carried out in case of proper placement. And another very important thing, it has been said several times that the foreign exchange credit problem was handled by the government. This is not so, however, at a Justice Committee meeting, one of their members admitted that, after all, there were types of problems that had not been dealt with comprehensively, especially the most vulnerable social groups, the most difficult people in the line, who were the most affected by this problem, they had not received answers from the government in the last slowly over the past decade. I think that implementations should be suspended not only in the winter period but in general until this complex answer can be given by the Parliament on the proposal of the government. I think that we can all be partners in this, and I look around at my fellow opposition Members. I remember an amazing number of proposals on the suspension of evictions, proposals for decisions, which listed the solutions at long points, either in consultation with the tax chamber or in consultation with other professional and relevant organisations, and there are countless solutions on the table in the world. I find it amazing that many of the claims are collected after a property, or even that even long after Hungarian families have to bear a terrible burden, the property that is used as collateral is already not the property of a family. This is also unacceptable. I think that if we are talking about implementation in the Parliament, then it is worth putting these on the table, in particular, and here the other side of the coin, if we are talking about releasing past tax debts accumulated on a date, or, where appropriate, you see them in articles in lengths year after year, when the blacklist of debtors, this type of blacklist of individuals, is published, then I have to say that it is for those in need to benefit and not constantly to figure out techniques to actually release large debts. But, of course, there are positive elements, which have been mentioned in the context of overpayment or even in the context of public employment, which are, of course, okay, because, in fact, the introduction of detailed rules is already taking place here, a kind of harmonisation of the law. Let us say that the substantive transformation has already been decided, and this has already been done. There were also many positions, many opinions, and obviously the majority approached this as a practical decision, but if we look at it systematically, then, of course, this also fits into the systematic evacuation of the courts that took place last year. I refer here to the fact that, in addition, the initiation of civil litigation has been extremely difficult, the negotiations have run out, both in civil and criminal cases, with a significant reduction in the number of judges, and, in fact, with this previous change, forensic enforcement will also be removed from the court system, the NAV. We'll see how much this is gonna work. The courts therefore continue to be eliminated and the NAV is being raised into a kind of big organization. Question is, how this is gonna work. Obviously, your passion for these big-ass organizations can be seen in action. It is a spooky reminder of the emptying of the municipal system. Every step of the way is a balance between the branches of power. It was introduced in a government decision in 1499/2017 that the tasks of forensic enforcement will be performed by the State tax and customs authorities from 1 January 2019. Here is an observation that it would obviously have been more appropriate and appropriate to introduce this by means of legislation. There is obviously no deeper problem with the detailed rules in the situation, here are some provisions sticking out of the line, which has already been referred to by the speakers before me, and I would not go into this in detail. This is Btk. of the Committee of the Regions of the Regions for the period from 1 January 2006 to 31 December 2006 It will also be amended, which is, of course, justified by Decision Ab or EU directive, but under the legislative law it would be more appropriate to vote on such different living conditions, say, in another legislation, or, where appropriate, to give Members the opportunity to apply different voting behaviours on individual issues. In short, several comments have been made in the last hour here in the debate, so I would like to ask you to take into account what I have said, but also what my fellow Members have said in the final definition of the text of the legislation. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2019-11-05-44	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. Ms Zita Gurmai asked for the floor from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-11-05-45	[[Without sound:]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House,
u2019-11-05-46	Wait, Congresswoman, you have a voice now.
u2019-11-05-47	[[Without sound:]] Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Obviously, during the implementation of the bill, the government of irrigation farming... [[Gergely Arató: This is not the bill!]]
u2019-11-05-48	Excuse me, Congresswoman, is your mike up? [[Dr. Gurmai Zita: Yes.]] Then please... [[Dr. Gurmai Zita is placed in front of a portable microphone.]] The card's in there. The congresswoman has already spoken today, and her card is probably in there. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita: No, thank you.]] It's okay. You just couldn't hear it. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita: It's okay. Defiance, applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] Thank you very much. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, points out that, as the rapporteur, he wishes to give a final speech. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-11-05-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, but only a few questions and issues have been raised in the comments, which is why I would like to react. First of all, I would like to thank the speakers who supported the draft law, and I would like to ask that it stay that way, so this is a technical amendment in order to ensure uniform settlement of public debts and debts to the State within the system. It was said that tax debts would be released. In this context, this is a misinterpretation of the matter, so tax debts have been handled by NAV and will continue to be dealt with by NAV, so this bill does not cover tax debts, nor tax debts before 2010 or after 2010. As regards the liquidation of executives, it has been said that this is not possible. At any time, it is possible to ask, according to the current procedures, who is in the position to repay their debts, so this is an option provided by law. I didn't understand the suggestion from that point of view. The rules of deduction, to what extent and how much can be deducted from whose debt, are also clarified today, my fellow Member Andrea Varga-Damm said that 33 percent of income can be cut off, so that is basically the subject of legislation today. With regard to housing, we have repeatedly said in the debates that arise here in Parliament that it is the job of the competent notary to care for housing, and in any case to be notified of the enforcement procedures in this case. Issues related to the different foreign exchange credit institutions have also been addressed. Although this is not the subject of the bill, I would suggest that various facilitations, which the House has accepted regarding the accountability of the banks, the end-payment to point out these only, have not actually been voted by the opposition parties, so this is a bit of a strange behaviour. And the other is that he spoke about the emptiness of the court system, my fellow Member, László Varga. Nationally, it affects 40 people, and there are about as many forensic executors in the country. If this would mean evacuating the 11 thousand-man courts that their task was transferred to the NAV, then I think it's a mathematical mistake from the MSZP. That is what I wanted to add to what has been said. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[11.30]]
u2019-11-05-50	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. The general debate on the draft law on the publication of new Hungarian-Slovenian state border documents for 2018 will now follow. The government referral is T/7841. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-11-05-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill is to publish the new border documents of the Hungarian-Slovenian state border in accordance with the provisions of the Law on State Borders. The new border documents are set out in Annex XII of 2009 A joint committee of the Hungarian-Slovenian Hungarian-Slovenian Committee, which was announced by law, established under a Yugoslavian border agreement, was established on the basis of a survey of the state border completed in 2017. The Joint Committee has documented in the new border documents for 2018 the correction of the data laid down in the original border documents of 1981 and the additions and amendments made to the border and its designation between 1981 and 2017, which should be approved in accordance with Hungarian and Slovenian legislation. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Based on the survey completed in 2017, new border documents were created with modern technology instead of the old ones. The border documents do not result in a change in the boundary, nor do they constitute an international treaty, but they must be published in law as an international contract under the State Borders Act. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss and accept this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-05-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Sigmond Barna Pál. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-05-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Following the dissolution of Yugoslavia, Hungary recognised the Republic of Slovenia on 15 January 1992 and established diplomatic relations with it. However, the history of this bill began a decade earlier. On 20 October 1983, the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the People's Republic of Hungary launched a convention declaring that the Contracting Parties jointly control the border line every five years and carry out the renewal, maintenance of border signs and, if necessary, additional marking of the border. The Republic of Slovenia has taken over the Convention by succession. As a result of the 7th periodic border survey carried out with modern technology, which was completed in 2017, the 2018 border documents, such as the border description, the coordinate list and the border map were drawn up. The Slovenian-Hungarian Joint Committee, which was established on the basis of Article 11 of the Yugoslavian border agreement, is responsible for the preparation of the documents. The original border documents were drawn up in 1981, so it was timely to document the additions and amendments to the border and its marking between 1981 and 2017 and to record the correction of errors of some 36 years ago. The new border documents include Article XXVIII of 2016 by law, any changes and additions to the new boundary between Hungary and the Republic of Slovenia, as a result of the regulation of the water management of the Lendva Creek, as approved in the Treaty on Change of State Borders. Although the border documents in question do not constitute an international contract, they must be published in law as an international contract under the State Border Act. With all due respect, I ask this House to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-05-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Ádám Steinmetz, who is speaking from here on the platform. I'll wait for Congressman to wake up. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-05-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, Mr Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, The T/7841 in front of us. The legislative proposal No. 1 concerns the publication of new border documents of the Hungarian-Slovenian state border in 2018. By adopting this Act, Parliament authorises recognition of the mandatory scope of the new border documents. For the sake of my fellow Members who have not had the opportunity to study this bill, I would like to say that this consists of five paragraphs, but with its annexes it has 415 pages. The annexes contain the border description with border points and border marks, including the coordinate list and the border map of the Hungarian-Slovenian state border. In this context, there is one question, Mr Secretary of State. The overview map does not show the seal of the Joint Committee. What's the reason for this, why it hasn't been certified, as opposed to the other documents with the stamp on it, and you can see it's authentic. It is also important to know this because, although the border documents are not an international treaty, this has been said by the speakers before me, they should be published as an international treaty, and the new border documents should apply after entry into force. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian-Slovenian Joint Committee made amendments to the line established in 1981 until 2017. The state-of-the-art border documents and now pay attention. show changes due to changes in the natural environment. Mr Secretary of State, questions arise in this regard. What natural environment has changed? Could the Mura Medre have changed or changed to the Lendva Creek Med, or could other things have happened that could affect the location of the state border? I would also like to mention that in this bill we do not see where the old border was, only the new border line, and we do not know whether Hungary's territory has increased or, where appropriate, decreased with the new border line due to changes in the natural environment. That's important to know. It is also important to know whether these changes would affect the three-fold common border between Hungary and Slovenia and Croatia. That is why I would like to have a firm response to this, because, as can be seen, a very serious border dispute between Croatia and Slovenia has been under way for years. [[Károly Kontra: But not here!]] I would not like it, nor would the Jobbik faction, but I do not think that you are either, in order to maintain good neighbourly relations, so that Hungary may be involved in this border dispute. Therefore, in order to be able to calmly propose to the Jobbik faction the support of the bill before us, I ask the honourable Secretary of State to answer my questions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-11-05-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-05-57	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The speakers before me explained in detail the substance of the bill consisting of five paragraphs, but 415 pages. I would like to tell you about the relationship between the two countries, also because the Slovenian Prime Minister was here recently in Hungary, visited his Hungarian partner, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, and talked about the importance and continuation of cooperation. We see Slovenia as a successful, stable country, which can serve as an example for the other Western Balkan countries in relation to Euroatlantic integration. We consider it very important that the precise, secure borders between two neighbouring, stable, sovereign countries are an essential prerequisite, which is why we have never had such a debate with the Slovenians in recent decades, and we would also like to avoid, as my fellow Member has said, that in the future such a situation may occur, such as in the Croatian-Slovenian section. [[11.40]] Between the two countries in recent years, a very modern technology has been used to assess the Hungarian-Slovenian border, for which new border documents were prepared in 2018. A new border-setting document is also necessary with Slovenia to make it a sure point in relations between the two countries and replace the 1981 border documents that were concluded by Yugoslavia and the Hungarian People's Republic. The relationship between the two countries has been particularly good in recent years. We welcome the completion of the M70 motorway this year to the Hungarian-Slovenian border, and the design phase of the Zalaegerszeg-Rédics-Lendva railway has begun. So the border does not separate us from Slovenia, but connects us. At the same time, a precise legal document of this will only strengthen the sovereignty and cooperation of the two countries. For us, it is extremely important that the Hungarian community living in Slovenia and the Slovenian community living in Hungary feel at home in the two countries, guaranteeing their ethnic rights, preserving their traditions and culture. For us, Hungarians living across the border and our national governments appear as resources, not as an unpleasant issue. We are pleased that the Hungarian government supports Rábavidék, a programme for economic development there, with a large number of Hungarian Slovenians, with HUF 900 million. In addition, the government supported the economic development programme of the Mura region in Slovenia with a large number of Hungarians. It is very important that we also launch a joint project with Slovenia: medical aids, medicines and hospital equipment will be delivered to Africa as a joint project of the two countries, since both countries have experienced migration, uncontrolled border crossings, illegal border crossings, so it is important to bring help there rather than trouble. I consider it very important that the Hungarian government has increased the support of the Slovenian minority living in Hungary four and a half times since 2010; this has been reflected in cultural institutions, educational institutions, journals or even in various programmes and religious and religious support. And we support the creation of a development fund already initiated by the Hungarian Government, which would be a cross-border regional development fund in Hungary-Slovenian. The current bill also contributes to good relations between the two countries, and it is important to know the exact boundaries. The KDNP fraction supports the bill. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-05-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Ms Zita Gurmai. Here you go.
u2019-11-05-59	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Mr. Secretary. between the Government of the Hungarian People's Republic and the Executive Council of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on the Hungarian-Yugoslav State border, on the renewal, marking and maintenance of the border and border signs in Belgrade, on 20 October 1983; the so-called Yugoslav border agreement, which, according to the Republic of Slovenia, has been replaced, the Contracting Parties jointly control the boundary in each section every five years and carry out the renewal, maintenance of the border signs and, where necessary, the additional designation of the border, which was also mentioned by the Secretary of State. On the basis of a new survey of the state border concluded in 2017, the Hungarian-Slovenian Joint Committee established by the Yugoslavian border agreement developed the following new border documents: border description 2018, coordinate list 2018. and border map from the same year. The Hungarian-Slovenian Joint Committee has documented in these new 2018 border documents the correction of errors found in the original border documents of 1981, as well as the additions and amendments made to the border and its designation between 1981 and 2017, which should be approved in accordance with the laws of the Contracting Parties, of which it has of course informed each other. The new border documents include all changes and additions to the new boundary between Hungary and the Republic of Slovenia, which was announced by the Law of 2016 as a result of the regulation of the water management of the Lendva Creek, which was approved in the Treaty on Change of State Borders. The border documents do not constitute an international contract, but they must be published in law as an international contract within the meaning of the relevant law on state borders. According to the introduction of the document entitled "Hungarian-Slovenian State Border Description" 2018, the parties notify each other of the approval by changing the diplomatic register and the new border documents enter into force on the 30th day following receipt of the subsequent list. Accordingly, the Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary group supports the adoption of the bill for the publication of new border documents. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-05-60	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, to say the closing word. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-11-05-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank all the factions and fellow Members who have given their support to the proposed legislation, which has been tabled and which has now been discussed, the rapporteur and Parliament, and I trust that this support will also be reflected in the vote and will support the proposal with their vote. I would like to answer Mr Adam Steinmetz's questions afterwards. Your first question: the overview maps are a summary of the map gauges, which are only ancillary documents say by experts, so you don't have to sign this. And the map gauges are signed. That's the answer to your first question. The representation of the old boundaries is not indicated because the boundaries have not changed, only coordinates have been clarified, the differences of up to half a meter can now be maximum differences. Is the territory of Hungary increased or decreased? It hasn't changed, it hasn't grown, it hasn't decreased. Except in the case of the Lendva Creek, but we've already passed a separate law on it, this law only applies the law that we've passed before. The next question: the Croatian-Slovenian-Hungarian border section has not changed, so we do not have a debate on this, and this bill is about the Hungarian-Slovenian state border, about the publication of the 2018 border documents. So we will inform the House of this, which is what the bill tabled is about, and I ask you to support it. I hope the congressman has the right answers to your questions. Thank you very much for your patience and attention.
u2019-11-05-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Now we have to stop for a moment, because, in the absence of a rapporteur, I cannot begin the item on the agenda. Accordingly, I am forced to order a recess because we cannot exchange items on the agenda. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Couldn't you be the Secretary of State? They're part of the water business anyway. And he'll start. Internal affairs includes water management, water management.]] We've already texted you. [[It's a short break. Sándor Farkas arrives in the Chamber.]] Welcome, Mr. Secretary. Few have waited as long as we are now. [[Sándor Farkas takes his place as Secretary of State.]] [[11.50]] Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the draft legislation on irrigation management until closure. The government referral is T/7845. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now give the floor to Mr Sándor Farkas, Deputy Minister, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, with a timeframe of 30 minutes. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-11-05-63	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, My apologies for the delay of a few minutes, I was in another very important meeting, and I was told late that the previous agenda items had ended earlier. At the same time, it is a very great honour and I think it is a professional recognition that I can present to you the exposé of this bill, even because for many decades I consider myself experienced in irrigation farming, based on my professional qualifications and practical stories. For this reason, I believe that one of the most important laws for Hungarian agriculture and for Hungarian agriculture is one that will ensure even more the conditions for farming for farmers. One of the fundamental objectives of the agricultural policy is to spread the use of irrigation farming as widely as possible in order to allow Hungarian farmers to adapt flexibly to the challenges of insufficient precipitation and to improve the efficiency of their agricultural production. On the basis of the current calculations, Annex XXI is amended as follows: By the end of the century, the average temperature in the Carpathian Basin may rise by up to 3.5 degrees in Hungary. Even more intense warming of summer months, as well as extreme changes in precipitation and rainless periods, can be expected. There is a strong economic and social interest in mitigating the harmful effects of these processes and in spreading the use of irrigation as an agricultural technology. Irrigation development is therefore an economic issue on the one hand, and a national strategic issue on the other, because of our food sovereignty. Without irrigation farming, sustainable gardening, seed production, hybrid and sweet corn and field vegetable cultivation cannot be imagined in Hungary, but I may even include soy production as one of the highest protein crops. Now I would like to recall only two facts in support of the above. The annual output of our vegetable and fruit production, which is more dependent on irrigation opportunities, reached HUF 310 billion in 2018, and tens of thousands of farmers' livelihoods depend on the efficiency of this sector. Hungary is the third corn producer in the EU, but due to the lack of irrigation, its annual production is fluctuating between HUF 270 and HUF 370 billion. We therefore need to take part from the public side and help to create conditions for efficient agricultural irrigation, increasing the proportion of irrigable land. Today we irrigate on less than 100,000 hectares in Hungary, about 200,000 hectares have water rights permits, and we also know that there is a demand in the Hungarian farming community where they want to irrigate. It is in the strategic interest of agriculture to meet this demand; if we want competitive Hungarian agriculture, irrigation is an essential prerequisite for this activity to succeed. The basic purpose of the draft law is to support irrigation from surface water. Most of the problems today are the drought in the atmosphere, the drought in the atmosphere. By introducing appropriate surface water, we can reduce the harmful effects of the climate already, and by using osmosis pressure we can provide an opportunity with the principle of capillarity that helps our plants access water. We believe it is essential to develop cooperation between farmers, since in the case of areas accessible with water, the farmer in the nearest and furthest part must have access to this amount of water in the same way. It is very important that we can encourage the establishment and functioning of these cooperations, which sets the most important framework for this. If these cooperations and joint irrigation arrangements are not concluded between farmers, it will also be more difficult to achieve a meaningful improvement. With the support of the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy and the Association of Hungarian Farmers and Farmers' Associations, it can now be said that irrigation farming is considered by the state to be an activity of general interest, since it does not only generate individual benefits, but we can also improve the well-being of our environment with balanced, conscious and higher water management activities. It is important to consider irrigation as a public interest because the main obstacle to investments is that irrigation water is to be transported through an underground or above-ground water facility to the investor's farmland, often through the land of others. Accordingly, the problem of water transfer must also be solved at individual level by farmers wishing to irrigate. Therefore, the draft law grants irrigation rights to farmers, allowing the use of the land of others to carry out the water transfer. In order to achieve this, the bill provides for compensation for the owners of the land concerned, for the content of the irrigation service and for certain aspects of the exercise of law. Taking into account that all irrigation activities under the bill require a water licence, the holder of the irrigation service should therefore be the holder of the water licence. The creation of a service will only be possible if it does not render the proper use of the property impossible. The Authority shall provide in a decision establishing the service for compensation to the owner of the property, the methodology of which shall be laid down in the bill, whether it is to establish a possible reduction in the value of the property concerned as a result of the creation of the service or a methodology for the damage incurred in connection with the exercise of the watering service. If another wishes to join the water transfer facility, the operator of the aquatic installation shall be required to contribute to the connection. This allows the investment licensee to share its burdens with the new connectors and the new connectors to contribute to the payment of compensation. Through the adoption of the law, the State takes on new tasks for the development of irrigation. As the mid-level state planning unit, we designate irrigation districts for which we prepare irrigation development plans. These plans would specify which areas are suitable for irrigation and which areas are not. Irrigation development plans in each irrigation district determine under natural conditions, terrain, hydrographic and soil conditions under which conditions and technology it is possible to continue irrigation farming. Our aim is to provide farmers with a realistic view of their irrigation possibilities and to avoid the need to pursue environmental, nature conservation and soil protection authorities or professional authorities in case of continuing irrigation in accordance with irrigation plans. [[12.00]] The plans will have to be reviewed every 15 years. The designation of irrigation districts and the preparation of irrigation development plans will begin in 2020 in the area of the ten-year development programme of the public main irrigation works. The aim is to examine the entire territory of the country from the point of view of the development of irrigation by the end of 2024. We are aware that irrigation farming involves high investment needs and significant operating costs. Basic experience is that, based on the principle of economies of scale in the case of irrigation, irrigation is more worthwhile in the larger area, as the specific costs are reduced. Taking all this into account, we encourage cooperation to improve irrigation, in order to create a category of irrigation communities with this law. What does the irrigation community mean? We can ask that question. Irrigation communities can only be established by farmers. I think that's one of the most important terms. The irrigation community may acquire rights and assume obligations as a legal person. The bill does not require formality in choosing the form of a legal person; it only lays down the size of the irrigated area, in the case of arable crops at least 100 hectares, and in the case of vegetable and fruit production at 10 hectares. The difference is justified by the intensity of irrigation. While irrigation replaces the missing precipitation for arable crops, the production of fruit and vegetables requires continuous and intensive water supply. Until the irrigation development plans are completed, environmental district plans will be prepared for the irrigation areas designated for the recognition of voluntary irrigation communities, with the help of the National Earth Management Centre. In this area, it will be possible to replace environmental, nature conservation and soil protection authorities in the authorisation procedure and, on the other hand, to relieve farmers of the burden of prior examination prior to the water rights authorisation procedure and the preparation of the soil protection plan, thereby saving them significant costs. Regional environmental plans shall be prepared by the irrigation administration. The Irrigation Administration is the National Earth Management Centre established in the summer of this year, whose Irrigation Development Department performs these tasks. Regional environmental plans shall be approved by the environmental authority in a specific environmental study involving the professional participation of the soil protection authority. Irrigation communities will be able to submit their applications for recognition to the Irrigation Administration and, following its professional examination, recognise the irrigation communities in an official decision at ministerial level. If necessary in the official procedures conducted by the irrigation community, the National Earth Centre will assist communities as coordinating and mediators. As a Community member of irrigation, the authorisation for the farmer would cease. The acquisition of irrigation permits may be carried out by irrigation communities, which may conduct the procedure as a client. In addition to the establishment of legislation on irrigation communities, we will provide for the possibility for communities to request support for their operation under the rural development programme. The design and documentation required for the authorisation will be supported at an intensity of 90 per cent. Irrigation communities will be entitled to operate third-party works within the irrigation zone, which is essentially a link infrastructure between typically municipal-owned state main works and farm-owned water facilities. We would like to gradually take over the ownership of these watercourses and channels. To this end, the bill opens the possibility for local authorities to offer the State the possibility of operating and maintaining small watercourses, canals in their possession, provided that water is transferred to the watercourse and canal irrigation community. Subsequently, the watering management body shall professionally verify the offers in order to ensure that only the watercourse and channel which is relevant for the transmission of irrigation water are taken over. On the basis of the management contract of take-over or the designating decision, the irrigation management body shall have three months for the practical receipt of the relevant small watercourse and channel. Dear House, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill and the related measures cover all the steps and instruments that can be taken today from the government's side to improve the professional, legal and financing conditions for farmers' irrigation investments and to remove the remaining obstacles to irrigation. In the interests of the development of Hungarian agriculture, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the adoption of the bill with their contributions, professional proposals and votes. I am convinced that one of the most important laws for agriculture, as I have mentioned in the introduction, is that it is now on your table, on our table, which in the long term ensures the agricultural sector not only its productivity, but also its ability to generate income and its ability to maintain it in order to bring as much food as possible to the Hungarian people's table. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2019-11-05-64	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Welcome. We will continue our work with speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Balázs Győrffy, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2019-11-05-65	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, First, let's do a reckoning, see where we were in the '80s. The irrigated area was about 300 thousand hectares. By the end of the 2000s Unfortunately, this number has fallen to only 100,000 hectares, which, by the way, accounts for around 2 percent of the domestic production area, which is also dramatically low in European comparison, and it must be seen that in the last 20 years we have not been able to change the substance of this number. Let's see what this water-loss-water damage from the agricultural side means. The extremes experienced in recent years have led producers to establish crop safety. The best example of this is why farmers are so concerned when compared to 2015 when, due to drought, some 6.5 million tonnes of maize were harvested, compared to 9 million tonnes a year earlier in 2014. As a result, only from this one crop in a year, the loss of agriculture exceeded HUF 100 billion, so that we are a water producing country in relation to surface water. The average loss of water in the sector, if we look at this on an annual average, is estimated at HUF 55 billion. The drought is responsible for HUF 40 billion, and the inland water is responsible for HUF 15 billion. It's not a small amount of money we're talking about. Since 2010, domestic agriculture has been able to show a significant improvement, but we cannot start further growth without improving water management. Improving crop safety is a vital task, and the government recognised this and pays particular attention to the development of irrigation. I would like to stress here that, in addition to crop safety, irrigation can not only result in a stable production of the averages that we cannot produce without irrigation, but also in the fact that we can grow crops more widely that cannot otherwise be produced profitable without irrigation. Here we can think of seed or industrial vegetables. In the case of the irrigation season, there has been a very important decision over the past period, since, in addition to the introduction of the free drought monitoring network, the need for irrigation has been extended for a month, from 1 March to 31 October, so farmers will now receive two months of preferential watering. [[12.10]] In addition, it is important to mention, in the spirit of cutting red tape, that farmers can now get a water licence for 20 years instead of five years, and indeed, authorisation has become easier, although it is still possible to move forward. At the same time, we have made it possible to start irrigation in a period of persistent water scarcity subject to notification, so that the permit is not required. The National Chamber of Agricultural Economy carried out a water demand survey, as the State Secretary made a reference to it, since this was the task of the Chamber in the context of the Government's resolution on the establishment of an irrigation strategy, and at the 17-18 rounds this work was carried out. A total of 40,000 producers were recorded and some 1.2 million hectares were surveyed by the villagers in the Chamber. This has made real irrigation planning visible across the country and, at least as important, what is preventing this irrigation development from starting. Such reasons include the lack of surface water, the fear of bureaucratic burdens for many farmers. Irrigated farming is indeed hampered by the fragmented structure of the estate and the lack of cooperation from the farmers' past, the consequences of this are still felt by farmers on their skin, the complexity of obtaining ownership contributions, and in some areas the anomalies of water transfer. It should also be taken into account that, in the context of the development of irrigation, the investment will pay off in the longer term and, indeed, it will require considerable self-esteem. Based on the survey, around 87 percent of current irrigated areas fall into four counties. With the largest area ratio, Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok county is represented by 30 percent, followed by Békés 23, Hajdú-Bihar 19 and Csongrád county by 15 percent. As regards the areas to be irrigated in the future, I am therefore talking about the plans, along with the 140 thousand hectares already furnished for irrigation. Compared to current irrigated areas, future irrigation needs are concentrated in the same four counties. Obviously, culture, knowledge of irrigation technology, and the good example shown by today's watering farmers, can be seen here. Here, however, the area ratios differ in terms of the areas to be irrigated. The biggest area ratio is Hajdú-Bihar county, 39 percent, followed by Békés county 18, Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok county 17 and finally Csongrád county 10 percent. Moreover, the tasks envisaged for the coming years relate to both water supply and demand improvements and support measures. In connection with the development of the water supply, the reconstruction of public works and the preparation of the cadastral in the case of non-state works, the possibility of the management of the state assets of the embracing works, and the solution to the proper operation of municipal works should be mentioned. In the area of water demand development, support for producer cooperation should be mentioned. Here, Minister of State referred to the irrigation community as a new form of cooperation, which I think is also a good approach to the problems that have been identified during the water demand survey. The community can be formed with the participation of at least two farmers and operated as a legal personality. The establishment of a water transfer service equivalent to a specific public interest, the implementation of further legislative simplifications should also be mentioned, in addition to the establishment of a pre-lease right for irrigated areas. This is, by the way, the long-standing desire and demand of irrigation farmers, and I think that there is also a legitimate expectation on their part. I would also like to mention the implementation of legislative simplifications, the speeding up of the authorisation procedure and the simplification of the administrative procedures, since they can now be done through a window by the NFK. It is also worth mentioning that as a supportive measure, a demonstration centre will be set up to strengthen field-water secondary education, vocational advice and adult training, and to spread irrigation skills. The plans are beautiful, and I think that we have not been lacking in this, but it is important that we can also report on resources for this concept. Public resources are also added to irrigation development tasks. In the next ten years, some HUF 17 billion is available for the development of water supply and demand. The annual framework of 17 billion supports, in particular, the development of water supply in order to put the canals in a suitable water transport state where there is a real need for irrigation. There are ongoing investments in water supply and development, so let's put these in order, because the works started this year. In line with the results of the Chamber's water demand survey, seven priority investments are already being prepared. These are the sandback and the water supply of the Szarvas deadlands, the reconstruction of the Eastern main canal and its belt ducts, the extension of capacity; the water supply of Jánossomorja and its region, the irrigation canals of Tiszakécske, the taktaközi irrigation canal, and last but not least the reconstruction of the dual-acting channels, especially in Hajdúság. In addition to domestic resources, the rural development programme is also available. The watering support call announced here is constantly harmonised to the needs, highlighting the most important points that a final water permit should be attached to the application only in the most necessary cases. In the case of undivided joint ownership, the ownership contribution will be simpler. Eligible expenditure for eligible activities increased by 20 percent. Furthermore, it was possible to choose a one-off settlement or to increase the aid intensity by another 10 percent in the case of collective investment. Thus, it is possible to achieve an aid intensity of up to 70 per cent, and the new irrigation community will be able to apply for these resources. Farmers are entitled to call, groups of farmers, especially young farmers, who experience an increase of 10 per cent in intensity, as in other plans of the rural development programme. Ladies and gentlemen, The real aim is to increase the volume of irrigated areas in Hungary by around 100,000 hectares until 2022. Climate change cannot be called into question either in agriculture or in other respects, which has an increasing impact on domestic crop safety and thus on the safe supply of food to the population. Irrigation is therefore more than an economic interest. Creating adequate water security and resolving the problems of agricultural water management facing current challenges is now a public interest. With this in mind, I would ask my fellow Members to support the proposal on the table. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-05-66	Thank you very much. Mr Zoltán Magyar, lead speaker of Jobbik, is the next speaker. Here you go.
u2019-11-05-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I also thank the Secretary of State for the introduction. I would like to point out that the Jobbik fraction will probably be able to support this proposal, which is why we have concerns and questions that we would like to share with you, both orally and through amendments. It's a very old debt to the governments at hand. I tried to collect until 2010 how many times the current ministers and secretary of state said that large national irrigation programmes and legislative amendments were coming before the House. I'm tired of taking notes and looking for them. In practice, it has been said several times in every session since 2010, either before the commission or here, in front of the House, how many problems this is, how many farmers it affects, and how it would be necessary to do something about it. So I'm glad we finally got here. We will now have to agree on the nature of this in the House and try to reach consensus. The figures that either Balázs Győrffy or Minister of State have told us about the current situation are correct, and we good people also believe that much more could be made out of domestic agriculture and the countryside in a situation where farmers can easily, preferably without bureaucracy or at least with a reduction in the amount of red tape and costs. After all, it is an absurd situation, which we said, in 2013, we lived to see the floods of the century, let us say, in the third week after the roofing, Hungarian agriculture was hit by drought. It's an amazing situation, and I don't think it's a modern, XXI. This condition is sustainable in a country of the century, or it can be in the interest of anyone. [[12.20]] If you look at the literal letter of the law and I do not use the suspicion that I should have used at the time regarding the adoption of the Law on the National Land Fund or the adoption of the Fisheries Act, I can say that this legislation will certainly have a good outcome; we only know you. Now I have made these two laws as an example because, in the National Earth Fund Act, for example, after the beautiful words and sentences of the law, state lands were privatized on this basis. Or, for example, the fishing law, where there was a specific ministerial promise from these chairs, that, of course, we will ban fishing, because we need to shift the focus towards fishing, but we will make up for those 200 families. That hasn't happened to this day. We live in a country where an official word of minister and a promise cannot be taken seriously. That is why I say that in this connection you are afraid of every time such a serious presentation is supported by the Jobbik faction, that the tiny part, the implementing regulations and the practice will come back in a way that we may regret the support. But really, what you're describing is, in general, executable and acceptable. The weakest point in my opinion will be the shortage of professionals, as, thanks to the effective work of recent years, there are not many professionals left in the system. Here, too, water issues are subject to considerable tasks, and the EKÁER is supposed to have a number of activities that, in addition to the current shortage of professionals, we do not believe will be able to carry out precisely and professionally. For example, in the case of long-term administration, I am thinking of the fact that they cannot take into account the change in the calendar year, and in such a case, the tread damage in autumn stalkers will be difficult to interpret. And we still have a lot of questions about these little things, which we will try to address through amendments, of course, but the end of each of them is that at present it is difficult to imagine that this administration, this administration, will be able to manage this through, especially if we take seriously the deadlines, the increase in the number of irrigation hectares that you project in the explanatory statement. We are pressing, but to do so, we must take seriously the respect of the remaining professionals, taking seriously their training and the training and orientation of the new generations towards these professions, as we also have a long way to go. There is also serious uncertainty in me about how small producers will understand or how they will believe that this will be a realistic new approach for them. I understand this irrigation community, and in addition to proper information and a fair attitude, there is a fantasy in it, and we also support the ability of either the Chamber of Agriculture or the wallet to explain this to the stakeholders and, above all, to carry out these tasks impartially. I understand that the problem is not simple and it took several years to work on it, although these ten years are a bit excessive, but when you think about it, water facilities, sewers, ownership problems, maintenance obligations really affect a lot of players, and it is an old-fashioned problem. Even the Golden Bull of 1222 dealt seriously with this issue, so even in the time of the kingdom, these cases were not properly clarified. And as the law and historical periods change, they must always be updated and shaped. Nevertheless, believe me, that the kind of loss of trust that has appeared in a significant part of the rural population about the fact that it is always the most capable, always the families that dominate the largest percentage of the land of that settlement are the winners of such a significant change, this fear is still in them. Here is the historic opportunity to prove to the government that, in this exceptional case, instead of supporting the capital side, it is finally on the side of small farmers, and the increase in the proportion of irrigating areas will ultimately not result in us sitting here in the House, say, four or five years from now, or sitting there, and talking about the fact that, similarly to the distortion of the support system and the increase in the concentration of land, you will find that the law has not brought the promised future that it currently contains and outlines. I know guarantees about this are difficult to implement in the text of a law, but please try and do it. We will try to achieve this with amendments, because believe me, Mr Secretary, that there is a serious fear of this in the rural population, and I stress that these fears are justified in the context of the past, and that we must be able to say this as a party to the countryside. Not to go into the technical details now, because, as I said, we will be drafting these in amendments, and I would like to underline them in particular, so that, in this state, we do not consider the administrative system, the administration system, to be able to go through with it. In this we would expect something encouraging from the Secretary of State and the guarantees that we can put in place for the small producers that are still left to feel that this is also about them. In addition, we have different environmental concerns, but my colleague will explain them in more detail. In the first place, therefore, we will probably be able to support this draft law, but we would like it to be a genuinely consensual proposal, and anyone who has a good interest in a more competitive, sustainable path for Hungarian agriculture. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-05-68	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, lead speaker at KDNP, is the next speaker. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-05-69	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your professionally high level of exposure, as you obviously have an excellent understanding of the situation as an irrigation expert and engineer. We can agree with what you have said, because it is a great challenge that we can somehow reduce the negative effects of environmental impacts, climate change on the natural environment and agricultural production, somehow we can protect it, while continuously increasing the competitiveness of Hungarian agriculture. After all, as a country proud of its agriculture and its history, I think that it is the common task of all of us, whether we come from the territory of agriculture or not, to contribute to the old reputation of Hungarian agriculture, to aging it, and to the XXI. In the 100th century competition, we can also make decisions where Hungarian agriculture can hold its place. It is therefore important to increase competitiveness, value added and income generation. That is what part of the current bill is about. By the way, this is also what the whole country's funding programme, launched by Minister István Nagy, is about. It's very good that these two things start in sync. We would like to increase irrigated areas by 100,000 hectares for the purposes we have just said. We also want to reduce the obstacles to irrigation in a noticeable way for farmers and create the professional, legal and financing conditions for irrigation with this bill. The government presented this bill in order to allow farmers to adapt flexibly to spread irrigation farming. They can adapt to the challenges of insufficient precipitation, thereby improving the efficiency of agricultural production. As a mid-level public planning unit, irrigation districts are designated to determine precisely which areas are suitable for irrigation and which areas are not. For the irrigation development plan, natural conditions are examined in one irrigation district, based on terrain, hydrographics, soil properties, and on which technology it is possible to continue irrigation farming. [[12.30]] The aim is to avoid the need to carry out environmental, nature conservation and soil protection authorities or professional authorities in the event of the continuation of irrigation in accordance with irrigation development plans, which will be fully replaced by the irrigation development plan. I would point out here that many bureaucratic measures have already been achieved either in the area of public administration or in the area of agriculture. Every time I welcome decisions that will further simplify the lives of producers, farmers and entrepreneurs. I think that in this Parliament, it is all our job to save people's lives from bureaucracy as much as possible, to protect them from administrative confusion and to create the simplest, most transparent, easiest accessible system possible. We therefore particularly welcome this part. Irrigation communities have already been discussed. I would like to point out here what we have already said before, that I consider it very important to involve young farmers in the irrigation community. I think that the Fidesz-KDNP government has done a great deal to change generations in the field of agriculture. This must continue, we cannot stop, and we cannot call this a completed process. Supporting young farmers, helping young farmers and involving them in these communities is a strategic goal that we cannot go without saying a word. I would therefore like to draw particular attention to the greater involvement of young farmers and their presence in irrigation communities. I think it's for their own good, too. So perhaps this could be a common denominator on the opposition side and on the pro-government side. The proposal also regulates the take-over of municipal-owned watercourses and canals. According to this, local authorities may transfer to the State small watercourses, canals owned by them for operation and maintenance, provided that water is passed on to the watercourse and canal irrigation community. The watering administration shall then verify the offers professionally in order to take over the watercourse and channel involved in the water transfer. On the basis of the management contract of take-over or the designating decision, the irrigation management body shall have three months for the practical receipt of the relevant small watercourse and channel. My fellow Members have also said, and Mr State Secretary has also said, that we consider the objectives set out in the bill to be very eligible. I believe that this bill is indeed necessary, and that it is necessary to implement the measures it contains. We are therefore asking the House to support this bill. The KDNP fraction supports it. It is very important that, after the adoption of the law, the implementation of this should start as soon as possible with implementing regulations drawn up by the Ministry and obviously with the help of the Chamber of Agriculture and with the involvement of farmers. So we can only support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-05-70	Thank you very much. Congressman László Varga, head speaker of the MSZP, please.
u2019-11-05-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to welcome the opportunity to discuss this subject here before the Parliament. By the way, we have argued about it with Mr. Secretary of State and others who are here now. This matter has been mentioned several times before Parliament. Last time I checked, the drilled wells, when we discussed a proposal, were discussed in this debate. It has obviously been said there, which is now and factually, that the area of irrigated land in Hungary does not reach 100,000 hectares, while the needs of farmers are much larger, four to five times that. At the time, it wasn't clear when they were going to put something on the table after nine years of government. Now I'm surprised by a few words they use to talk about it. I am pleased about this, by the way, for example, that climate change is also being said when we talk about irrigation. This was mentioned here by my fellow Member Balázs Győrffy. It gives me hope. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I told you that.]] Yeah, that's what my colleague Nacha said. We didn't often hear that expression from pro-government benches before. I am glad that they probably defeated their fellow Member Kósa at this faction meeting, or I do not know how it happened. In any case, the sceptical voices on climate change seem to be slowing down in the Fidesz, and then we can really talk about an aspect of this issue that I think basically determines the lives of our children and grandchildren, the next decades. This issue is a matter of national economy, national strategic interest, irrigation is a public interest. I agree with all the words that have been said so far. I think that the geographical location where we live, our country, our home, Hungary is in a very difficult geographical location in many respects. During his history, he suffered a lot of storms that almost swept him away. But otherwise, for example, in this respect, in terms of water supply or in terms of potential opportunities for agriculture, it is in a very good and encouraging place. It has often been said here in the debate on agriculture that this country is able to produce at least twice as much food as its population, and even more, there are opinions about this, and that the kind of climate change, the climate disaster that we are facing in the coming decades, is becoming less and less controversial, the opportunities for our offspring, the people who will live here, for basic life support. In this context, if you have to answer the question of improving irrigation farming in Hungary alone, you need to increase the area under irrigation, then the answer is clear yes. Definitely, yeah. This is what we represent, and we have been making proposals of this kind in the Parliament in recent years. Of course, it doesn't matter what cost I'd like to put this on the table. My fellow opposition Member has already referred to it here, but it is expected that there will be basically two directions to the amendments and concerns in the debate. One is obviously the environmental type of concerns. In this context, I welcome the less administrative burden on farmers and it is easier to irrigate, say, one area. But whether the administrative body is able to carry out these tasks, the increased burden here in relation to the new environmental plan, is a small question for me. I very much hope that a significant part of the amendments will be considered, accepted and eliminated by environmental concerns that might arise with regard to the amendment. The other is at what cost. Here the question of compensation may arise, which is a bottlenecks in this regard. Here he said, Mr Secretary, that the proposal regulates in detail the conditions and framework for compensation. Well, it might be more comforting for many to regulate that further. It is very important not to make it impossible to irrigate one area to other farmers or owners of other areas. So these are the two bottlenecks in this respect. I could say the same analogy as I could say in the case of wells, I thought it was very important for drilled wells to ask what was still not arranged here by the National Assembly in a reassuring and complete manner, so that small-scale workers living in the countryside, where appropriate in a large number of small settlements, may have access to drinking water, which is obviously another topic; two, at least to a basic amount of water, and this was the subject of an amendment that helped them to irrigate their small gardens, their basic livelihoods, or their incomes. This interest, the interest of low-levels, must be in line with long-term environmental, water base protection and other aspects. The last thing we had was a discussion about whose job it was. I said that I think it is up to Parliament to synchronize this, not to give up this right, our opportunity, and not to keep giving the government a blank cheque to coordinate these two aspects. That is partly what I think, which is why I think that there is still a need to refine the proposal. I think and say firmly that we need to help the process of having more irrigated areas in Hungary, because this can be a huge strategic advantage for us and for our descendants in the Carpathian Basin. However, this must be done in such a way as to meet certain aspects of water base protection and environmental protection, and, moreover, the issue of compensation must also be clearly clarified. [[12.40]] So, in short, I can tell you that if we can refine on these points, then on behalf of my group, I can say that we see a real chance to support this proposal. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2019-11-05-72	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Agnes Vadai, lead speaker of the Democratic Coalition, please.
u2019-11-05-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to advance two things in advance. If I may have a voice that many people here might be happy to hear, then I will try to continue my speech in a normal speech; unfortunately, I am not quite well yet, but I thought it was very important that I speak on behalf of the Democratic Coalition in this bill. The second point is: unlike everyone else here, I am not an irrigation expert, I am not an agricultural expert; I am a layman, I may be better at hybrid warfare or warfare in cyberspace, but I think that sometimes a bill doesn't hurt the eye of a layman. I was genuinely pleased with this bill when I saw the title of the proposal, because I think and perhaps this has already been said that the data we know from the KSH, namely that of the 4.5 million hectares of agricultural land, it is about 80 to 100 thousand hectares that are under watering, that is 2,22 percent, that is indeed very little; perhaps several of my fellow Members have mentioned this. And, as has already been said by the pro-government representatives, climate change is certainly affecting Hungary's climate and, obviously, Hungarian agriculture as a result. We know very well that in some areas already in the Great Plain, certain varieties of plants can be produced only where there is proper irrigation. So the purpose of the bill itself and the fact that there is this bill is very positive. It is still in the public interest in the bill itself, but here the Law on Irrigation Management has been called a nation strategy, a priority for the national economy, and I would not have regretted it if the Prime Minister had presented this bill instead of Mr Semjén, because it would have said that the Prime Minister considered this issue to be a matter of personal importance. In addition, it would have been worth considering that in addition to the agricultural portfolio, which, of course, has a very important task, the Ministry of the Interior is also present, as it is a question of irrigation, but it is a question of water. My fellow Members have so far touched on the issue of water and environmental aspects, but water, that is indeed a matter of national strategy in Hungary, cannot be in the sole interest of a single wallet, a single social group or one single area. Of course, I would have liked the environmental aspects to be better identified, but after the agricultural portfolio performs environmental tasks as well, as I am aware, since there has been no separate environmental portfolio since 2010, it is quite difficult to apply two aspects at once. It is very important that there was obviously some sort of intergovernmental consultation in this case at that time. I find it less positive that there is no Balázs Győrffy here, and I would like to say to him that the great consultation with Magos and NAK was only with the two Fidesz organizations, so obviously within the Fidesz fraction, the Fidesz agricultural administration took place together with the Fidesz agricultural administration. I think it would have been worth talking about this more widely. But when I looked at the bill itself, because I imagined it, and I may be wrong about that, that when we talk about irrigation farming, there is a framework, a strategic framework that talks about why this XXI is important. In the 20th century, what is the reason why the National Assembly should be much more concerned with irrigation farming, compared to this, I saw that they had immediately struck the chute, if I may say so, and that all definitions of irrigation services, irrigation communities and irrigation districts were written in the bill, which is, of course, very important, but my fellow Members have already said that they want to define the detailed rules of these rules, particularly in terms of compensation and compensation for irrigation services, in government regulations, which is not a legal guarantee. Therefore, on the one hand, the general framework character of the law is missing, why and under what conditions much stronger irrigation farming should be implemented in Hungary from a strategic point of view, but the detailed rules that are really important to farmers will only be defined later, so we do not know exactly how certain definitions are interpreted and how they intend to be defined in the government decree. So, overall, I can say that then there is a bill that we know certain elements of, but obviously the most important elements will be adopted sometime before 1 January 2020 in the form of government decrees. If I may, I would like to highlight a few parts specifically so that we can have some kind of professional debate, although I am not opposed to the political debate. The first and most important thing I would like to mention, and what has already been mentioned here, is the Irrigation Development Plan. In connection with the Irrigation Development Plan, several of my fellow Members pointed out that one of the major problems is obviously a complex plan for water and other professionals in this area, so it is not possible to know who will make these plans in Hungary, since it is apparent that this type of apparatus is missing from the system, to say the least. Obviously, Mr. Secretary will help me resolve a contradiction. The first problem and the contradiction then follows that such a published Irrigation Development Plan will apply for 15 years from the date of issue. Did I get that right from the bill? I would like to ask you that in a world where the situation is changing every minute, where, in five years' time, Hungary will certainly look different from its average temperature, but whether it is the whole climate, what makes us think that this 15-year period can be maintained, while the bill states that otherwise the 6th climate is quite right. § 2 requires them to be reviewed regularly. Therefore, this Irrigation Development Plan should be reviewed regularly, but the justification already states that it should be reviewed only every 15 years. Now, if regularity is 15 years old, I think we're going to be in a lot of trouble with these plans, because this will basically determine irrigation farming in Hungary. So I would like the Secretary of State to help me understand and clarify this, because there is a contradiction here, because if there is a regular review, I think it is okay, and for 15 years in a very fast changing environment, it is not possible to make plans without a review, and I would not see the point of a 15-year review. Allow me to draw attention to a problem that I was surprised by about the bill because, unlike the predecessor of the current minister, I think that the current minister has shown more professionalism than his predecessor, who was most only a viewer on the news. I think that the current minister is obviously an expert in his field. We have political and other debates, obviously we have professional debates, but basically, compared to the previous Minister of Agriculture, how can I put it? It's a huge leap in professionalism. That is why I was surprised to see, with regard to the recognition and withdrawal of irrigation communities, that the bill states that this is the 8th. § that the recognition of irrigation communities must be submitted to the watering administrative body and the applications, together with the professional opinion, are submitted to the Minister responsible for agricultural policy, who then approves or withdraws this recognition. I'm not sure I understand that if there is an administrative body involved in irrigation, if there is one now, Irrigation Agency, too, Irrigation Agency. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Centre.]] Then why is it necessary to move the decision on the irrigation community to a political, ministerial level. I find it quite incomprehensible that the Ministry of which I think is more professional than the previous one, so it would have been more likely for the previous minister to want to decide on all matters himself, why the current Minister and the Ministry do not allow such communities to be recognised at the professional level which is to decide on this. I know that the Minister has a great deal to do, too, Mr Secretary of State, because we have sent a lot of letters in the form of written questions on agricultural matters, but I assume that you, the Ministry, and the Minister do not understand these things in all irrigation communities, but it would be more necessary to resolve this at a professional level where I should say so. less potential for political influence. [[12.50]] This is only necessary because what we have seen over the past period with regard to agriculture, what we have seen, has not been exhilarating. Mr Balázs Győrffy, my colleague, spoke about the fact that the government has actually decided on so much development money for 1426/2018. a government decision setting out the directions for irrigation development, which aims to improve irrigation purposes, there is a preparatory and planning phase, and indeed approximately HUF 17 billion was granted annually between 2020 and 2030. In fact, there is another government decision that provides the financial resources needed to address the various infrastructure and human resources shortages that hinder operation, amounting to approximately HUF 3.7 billion per year, so there is money for this. Although it is less than sport, I would like to say that because at the annual level it is HUF 20 billion, and if I am still thinking about the Danube Arena, it was 46 billion forints, it was a one-time edition, while we are talking about national strategy and public interest. I just want to say this... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: There's water in that, too.]] There may also be water in it, indeed, but it is not water that can be used for irrigation. So I understand the joke, which means everything can be used, obviously. I just wanted to say that the priorities, when we talk about a nation strategy, often differ. Let's say the new Ferenc Puskás Stadium, which is 190 billion, doesn't have so much water. The point is that in this connection, I would like to say that, although there really is a source, and my colleague Győrffy also referred to the availability of funds in the framework of the call for support for the development of the agricultural water management sector, but I am sure my fellow Member knows that this budget of around 50 billion, which was opened on 1 August 2016, has not been exhausted. This means that it was very difficult to use this amount. I just want to say that I think that all strategic laws aimed at dealing with the issues of water, climate change and agricultural production that we are facing today are very important. However, some things must be settled in advance before we deal with these issues. Such is the lack of an adequate number of professionals already mentioned. If this issue is not settled, it is possible to make very nice plans and laws, and there will be no man who can do these plans, let alone every 15 years, but never. Because it's not just a water expert, it's soil protection and environmental protection that has a lot to deal with, it's a complex plan. Obviously, it is very important to achieve coordinated developments where local and state interests, recreational protection and, for example, flood protection can be coordinated. That is why I am saying that we are talking about irrigation farming, which is obviously part of the agricultural purse, but it is much more than that, but it is a much more complex issue. Obviously, it is an important strategic issue that, in the next programming period, the government, and this cannot be recorded in this law, but do everything in its power to provide Hungary with other conditions for irrigation. We know how difficult it is now to start with irrigation programmes for Hungarian farmers in EU applications. I think that if there is a question of national strategy, it is that we can make use of the EU funds that are available for this, in our own framework and in our own opportunities. This cannot be resolved by law, and the Hungarian government can only do so if, when it is necessary to lobby for agricultural budgets and conditions within the agricultural budget, it does not say that it is a migrant to my written questions, but says that it has done everything in its power to enable Hungarian farmers to start on irrigation applications under conditions that actually allow them to use these amounts. And finally allow me, although several of my fellow Members have said that they may be able to support this bill, they have expressed their reservations, which I am not surprised at, because in recent years even the land is for farmers! In the framework of a programme, or in the case of various agricultural subsidies, we have always found that government communication talked about the interests of farmers, but in fact, any program had a real purpose, for example, the land for farmers! In the case of a programme to give the land to friends, to build a rural clientele network and to establish a fidesz fiefal system. Some people say it's feudalism, I think it's more like nerudism, if I may use that term. In addition, allow me to draw your attention to the fact that the New York Times has recently written about Hungarian agricultural barons. The question was also addressed by the European Commission. If the article is not liked, it is worth watching that video. [[Sándor Farkas: That's not true.]] But it's true, Mr. Secretary, even if you say it's not true, it's true. It is worth watching the video where the European Commission spokespersons answer these questions. I think that we need legislative proposals that are realistic, and unlike my fellow opposition Members, I do not believe in your promises. I believe that if the conditions are guaranteed by law, they will bring a positive advantage not only to the agricultural barons, not only to those who are related to you, but to all those who otherwise participate in the Hungarian agriculture. Thank you very much. [[Erzsébet Schmuck applauds.]]
u2019-11-05-74	Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, lead speaker of the LMP. Here you go.
u2019-11-05-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The law treats the inevitability of irrigation farming as a fact, and does not consider any other alternative, in this connection an impact assessment study has not been carried out for the law, although it should. The law obscenely conceals that insufficient precipitation for irrigation is highly related to climate change and can be interpreted as a consequence. However, when we look at the relationship between irrigation and climate change, it is understandable to keep quiet. The planned measure, while serving adaptation purposes, goes against mitigation and greenhouse gas reduction targets, as energy use for the construction, maintenance and operation of irrigation infrastructure contributes to the causes of climate change. As Mr Secretary of State said in his introduction, this is a major investment. Perhaps an impact assessment could have revealed this fact that everyone knew, and could have pointed out this contradiction numerically. But I think, in the public interest of irrigation, the public interest of climate change will be dwarfed by the government, despite the fact that the need to irrigate comes from it. It is true, however, that maintaining a favourable climate has not yet been declared by the government as a public interest. That's what the LMP is waiting for. It is clear that people need food, but the scarcity of it cannot be improved in addition to climate change by irrigation, because scarcity is linked not only to soil moisture but also to a number of other ecological factors. However, doubts about irrigation farming are expressed not only by contributing to the causes of climate change, but also by concerns about the soil. Irrigation may result in deterioration in soil fertility, which in many cases outweighs the positive effects. One characteristic of irrigation farming is that the result of irrigation occurs during the first growing year, while the adverse effects may only develop over several years. Unfavorable processes can prevent successful crop production for several years or forever, and soil improvement can be a very high cost. Typical problems are: salinisation, nutrient alkalinisation, soil compaction, surface crusting, potting and erosion. The most common of the adverse effects is the degradation of the soil structure, the mudification of structural elements and soil crumbs. The muddled surface hinders, slows the leakage of water into the soil, resulting in over-wetness, puddle, surface run-off, and even soil drainage, even at relatively low precipitation or irrigation intensity. The law will aim to ensure proper irrigation through the development of general frameworks, plans and districts, without damaging soil, but the diversity of ecological diversity in the regions hardly allows generalisation or prescription. If we are looking for an alternative solution to irrigation, we should look at it, in addition to allowing farmers to adapt flexibly to the challenges of insufficient precipitation, why we need to irrigate our agricultural land. [[13.00]] However, this question is not even raised, since it would be necessary to face the unpleasant fact that the soil condition resulting from the soil rotation technology that has been conducted so far has severely reduced the water storage capacity of most of our agricultural soils. In these circumstances, the efficiency and impact of irrigation are, of course, very limited, almost limited to the duration of irrigation. Of the factors in place, the soil determines the water management of the table, which is affected by improper cultivation. The shallow, cultivated, altered, almost completely deprived soil cannot store water. The origin of the problem is soil rotation technology, which does not leave an organic blanket on the soil surface, leaving the soil without covering in the absence of vegetation and exposed to the abrasion of water and wind, daily heat swings, increased dehydration and increased blurring of the nutrients. The soil rotation changes the dynamics of soil life due to the coating of the original layer order, leading to the recovery of the organic carbon stock of the soil, the mass destruction of bacteria and fungi providing the natural diet of the plant, and the mutilation of the food chain in the soil. Soil life in our cultivated soils is reduced to a natural fraction in 50 years, as Minister István Nagy pointed out at his recent ministerial hearing, even though the nutrient supply of plants would be ensured by the degradation of dead biomass in the soil. Fertilisation further worsens the situation, while its production and use contribute significantly to agricultural uhg emissions due to the removal of nitrous oxide by denitrification. The carbon dioxide released from the soil's organic carbon stock contributes to these emissions, resulting in a steady decline in the carbon storage of our agricultural soils. Besides, soil life would also play a crucial role in soil water management if we did not destroy it. Soil particles are glued together to a stable crumb with a high reservoir capacity by a giant molecule called glamalin, which is produced by the yarns of mushrooms. This glamalin plays an important role not only in the bonding of water, in the feeding of plants, but also in carbon binding, and it stores 15-20 percent of the organic carbon stock of the soil. However, the fungus threads responsible for these beneficial effects are unable to survive in a constantly disturbed soil, as are other organisms that are indispensable in maintaining the soil. Dear Parliament, The creation provided man with plenty of soil. The Creator entrusted only responsible care to man, but instead, man ruins these free blessings and tries to replace them in an artificial way. It does so to ensure that the mistakes made are a good breeding ground for further economic growth, to artificially, industrially replace the soil's nutrients, the bacteria, the micronutrients in it, and, as we see now, also water. The European Union's 70-year agricultural policy has spent billions and spends on supporting an agricultural economy that contributes to climate change, soil degradation, desertion, loss of diversity of living things and the services provided by ecosystems, which is increasingly supporting our health and taking away opportunities from future generations. And here I would like to refer to the latest report by the IPCC, which was a specific report, which concluded that this ploughing field management is a very serious contribution to the acceleration of climate change. At the same time, we see that a number of forms of soil renewal farming are now known, ranging from mundane directness to agroecological systems to living mulch, which, relying on the power of creation, provide bread for all without destroying the created world. It is therefore time for a radical reform of the common agricultural policy that aid for farmers actually serves the transition to technologies for the common good. In the context of the specific law under discussion, we propose that we settle water scarcity problems in the framework of the legislation on responsible management of agricultural land rather than further decisions that make the situation worse, and that the responsible, world-based, maintenance farming requires that outdated, unsustainable soil rotation, chemised farming is gradually removed from practice. The timetable for this, the way in which substitution technologies are widely disseminated and introduced, need to be dealt with in a completely new law. With regard to the submitted draft legislation, it should also be pointed out that there is a fundamental lack of an analysis of the availability of water resources based on climate models. A national water management framework should be re-established, taking into account environmental and ecological aspects, with a strict water resource management approach due to climate change. All government measures, including legislation, water price and support policy, should be rethought in line with this; because the government is very aware that water is the 21st century. Gold of the century, strategic stock. Our subsurface water supplies are only replaced conditionally and in a lifetime perspective, 96 percent of our surface water supply comes from beyond the border when it arrives. Therefore, we should first increase our water resources, the water retention capacity of the soils, and improve the conditions of the water supply in the region. Dear Parliament, We must realise that we humans are responsible for the ever more restrictive ecological crisis, and that responsibility is better for the decision maker. It is not possible, infinitely, that in order to ensure the productivity of our soils, everything that is necessary for crop production, we will artificially bring it there. My comment is based on common sense, wisdom. It draws attention to the fact that the world cannot be viewed and governed by sectors, partial interests. At some point, it is necessary to start eliminating the decisions and actions that have been taken. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-11-05-76	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now possible to speak for two minutes. This is also an opportunity that Member Nacsa, a representative of the KDNP, wishes to make use of. Here you go.
u2019-11-05-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There was a pretty good debate here, but then Erzsébet Schmuck came up on the highway, facing all of us. I think that you are talking about responsible farming here several times in your speech, you are telling us about responsible farming, you are encouraging us to be responsible for the created world, but since 2010, we have heard nothing but hysteria from the LMP in the field of agriculture and in all areas of agriculture. So I think that this responsible concern is not entirely credible, and that he has not listened to the voice of his fellow Members, who, I think, have said that this bill is the work of a responsible farmer or responsible government, such a bill, and that is why relatively many factions have provided broad support for it. I would like to say this here, because Mrs Vadai asked the 15-year story, which is included in Article 6, which is due to the predictability and security of farmers and farmers living in that area; and the regular review means that it can be reviewed along the way, and if there is a need for change, then there will be a change. It is not possible to define such a plan for a year or two, so that no one knows how it will change next year, and its future will have to be thrown into uncertainty, but there is a time that provides predictability, and regular review ensures that if there is a need for change, then there will be a change. He asked me about the institutions. It is the National Irrigation Centre that is listed only because it is a center, because it has used a different word, so the National Agricultural Research and Innovation Center and the National Irrigation Center are the institutions that perform this role. So I just wanted to correct this inaccuracy and thank the Members who supported the bill. Thank you. [[13.10]]
u2019-11-05-78	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Agnes Vadai, DK, two minutes.
u2019-11-05-79	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I read from the text of the bill that the Irrigation Development Plan has been in force for 15 years from the date of issue, which really needs to be reviewed and amended regularly. However, in the justification that we also consider as an integral part of the law, the plans should be reviewed every 15 years. I understood this as a regular review then 15 years of review. If this is different, then the fact that it has to be reviewed every 15 years means that a plan lasts 15 years, and then it has to be reviewed, and in addition there is a regular review, then put this into the law and rewrite the justification. Otherwise, as I have indicated, this is not the biggest problem of the bill, but that, as everyone here has said, and I think that there is no debate between us, watering as such requires a much more complex bill, since, as has been said by the representative of the LMP, there are other considerations that I think need to enforce. That is why I think it would have been expected that, when we talk about irrigation farming, such a more complex, more formal bill will be drafted, and then the detailed rules that actually determine irrigation farming will be explained, because at the moment, the bill only provides that these will be settled by a government decree, such as the irrigation community or the irrigation service. I do not think it is possible that on one side we are speaking generously about irrigation, but on the other hand we are essentially talking about the detailed rules, which in fact determine and which will actually guide Hungarian farmers in terms of irrigation, and we say that one day someone will write these government regulations. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-05-80	Thank you. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP!
u2019-11-05-81	I would like to respond to my colleague Nacha. The time will soon decide who goes against whom, but I would like to point out to you and to all my fellow Members the latest report by the IPCC, the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. This report, these reports clearly say that humanity does not have much time left. It mentions ten to twelve years of very radical changes in the economy and in our everyday, everyday life. The economy also applies to agriculture. It is certain that the agricultural practices that have taken place here in the last decades cannot continue, so there is still room for trying. In this approach, this draft watering law is nothing more than to continue in the same spirit, in the same view, that we are now fixing something again, trying to deal with it this way. The question is, of course, that if the soil on which there is no soil cover, the rain will fall, it will continue to accumulate, there will be serious further problems. We should stop for a moment and think about how we can stop this process and start building something new. I'm sure we'd have to deal with the soil first. With the soil that is very, very ruined, that no longer produces food that is necessary for human health. So not to continue, but to stop, to think, and to start again. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-05-82	Now, honourable Members, you have not made any other two-minute comments, but there are two Members who wish to speak with you. First, Congressman Font, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2019-11-05-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This simple and well-meaning bill brings thoughts on an interesting journey. I myself thought, as a result of the speech by the lead speakers, that one or two out-views, to which more people were directing, let me reflect on the content of it, whether it is true or not, which I think it is true or not. With the original proposal, I think we all, or at least, if I perceive it correctly, agree on most of it. Hungary does not take advantage of the potential that a water-receiving country could take advantage of, this is the potential of irrigation and, of course, treat our water resources accordingly. Indeed, the further growth potential of Hungarian agriculture can be enhanced by doing nothing but the 200 000 hectares that we could theoretically irrigate, but today we can water only 100,000 hectares, win back and use and water the area with 200,000 hectares of watering technology again. Perhaps a larger scale, bold idea, but then we could double this area to nearly 400 thousand hectares without endangering any water-base mitigation or water-loss that could harm the future generation. This is simply due to our characteristics in the Carpathian Basin. Of course, we know that water restrictions are already being introduced in some southern countries of Europe, because they cannot provide consumers of these cities, and of course this leads to another problem, why people are concentrated in large cities today, and why it is increasingly difficult to maintain their livelihoods, even in the face of water, sewage, transport and other everyday problems, I would not open this debate now, but there is a tendency in Hungary. It is a fact that I am thinking of Greece, Italy and Spain, especially Spain, in some regions of the southern European countries, and it is now a huge problem in the summer to supply drinking water to residents. The spirit of this is now encompassing the whole board of the European Parliament and its preparatory circle, and it is bombarding those who, even now, are involved in water management with a series of proposals against the use of water. This is what we are like here in Hungary. In particular, in the newly formed European Parliament in 2019, I see the strengthening of the greens, who now consider all other water consumption as a waste, besides drinking drinking water, and which is carried through the various bodies with tremendous force. I would very much like to ask the MSZP, DK and Jobs groups here, which are represented in Parliament, that their views on this point, which I think has been expressed positively and intelligibly here, should be of the same spirit that their representatives of the European Union will perhaps explain, and do not fall for the new view that every drop of water is damaged, which is not used in areas suitable for human consumption of water. I dare say this because I want to learn about Hungary's talents. Of course, I understand Erzsébet Schmuck, and I would like to respond separately to the concerns about the distribution of water, the extreme nature of water being too much once and too little, so we have an increasing problem with distribution. We don't have a big problem with the amount of water yet; it's another thing that we can't keep the big water, which we need three or four months later. I'll take care of this separately, I feel like I need to be careful. But please, in the new alliance with the representatives of Momentum, who are not now represented in Parliament, I see that the current opposition representatives are in close contact with the representatives of Momentum, so please also warn the EU representatives of the Momentum, who are very inclined to overestimate this green area, to conclude that all other water consumption other than people's water consumption is practically a waste, and they are starting to start this spirit, I say, in the European Parliament, to bring it out so that they do not do so, rather to know the reality. Erzsébet Schmuck, who went far beyond the framework indicated by today's law, let me agree with some of his concerns, but let me argue with the conclusion drawn from this. [[13.20]] We see where the world is headed in terms of concern, and that the water supply may be the start of a killing struggle, which may well have already started somewhere in Africa. If you are monitoring the strategic direction of China's investments in Africa, you may notice the problems faced by a multi-billion - dollar country with the problem of maintaining mankind of its nation, and you are therefore looking for food bases and water bases in other areas. That's what he sees in Africa. It will be good for us to protect our water base from others, and here I will also mention migration, who may endanger our lives in Hungary. But let's get some professional questions straight. Erzsébet Schmuck says that we should finish slowly and lead to agricultural cultivation through soil rotation. That's an exciting question, I'd say, a New World question. We saw this with my fellow Member Sándor Farkas in America in 2009, when we were invited by the American Ambassador accredited to Hungary and the Secretary of State for Agriculture there, the State Secretary of the then government, and presented crop production without soil rotation. This was done for only one reason: they have not been used in a long time. This could be done because, for example, in GMO crops, corn was planted soy and corn, only these two plants were cultivated, Iowa, the state of the largest agricultural production, were rejected with a simple dent, and when the weeds grew up faster, the weeds grew up, the small corn came out, but in the first generation GMO plant they transformed the corn into glyphosate-tolerant with a GMO solution, and they sprayed the whole area off a plane with total herbicide. With this, all green plants have been eradicated, except for the clever little corn that has already been made glifosate-tolerant in the fourth generation process. And as a result, it has been shown that there is no longer a need to use soil rotation technology here. That's true, but at this price, we wouldn't ask for this to happen, solving cultivation without rotation. I still remember my historical studies that the invention of the faeke was quite a step forward in agricultural production, and then the application of metal and today's very modern and sophisticated plows and harrows. I fear that it is possible to produce crops in a sustainable way, and it may be possible to do this without soil rotation, but that at that time we cannot provide food to mankind, I am quite certain. So this should be thought of, then, how we provide humanity with food supplies, or at what cost we provide humanity, in Hungarian, how much our basic foods, which we produce through arable crops, will cost. The wheat, maize and soya will cost how much if today's average maize production of 6-8 tonnes per hectare in Hungary is 1-2 tonnes, but not for us, but for the whole world. There is no fairy tale in ploughing, there is the fight against weeds with ploughing, and we are also doing a soil relaxation, and the lack of these two causes quite serious problems in order to achieve a possible crop on a hectare. And surprisingly, at the end of the week, György Czerván and I were in Finland at the meeting of the presidents of the agricultural committees, Finland is the current president in the EU, and the second major territorial discussion on the future of the CAP support system and climate change was on the ground: one of the experts of the OECD and the FAO food specialist have practically turned agriculture into a criminal because they claim that agriculture is responsible for the greatest greenhouse effect and temperature growth. They're already treating this as a fact. We were, of course, shocked at this, because at the same time I looked at an interesting contrasting figure that we really are the ones who are farming on the largest green surface in the field of carbon capture and oxygen emissions, because this is what agricultural plants are doing. Of course, I know that there are also tractors issued by all kinds of, and transport. The delivery? We are now entering into a European Union treaty with Canada, South America, ASEAN countries on a global scale to transport goods from all over the world, without any customs duties, around the world. So on one side there is a terrifying, great globalist force that dominates the area that is basic agricultural production, that I get it to this point and this point, and I believe that there is a fraction of it that is connected to the production of greenhouse gases, and there, unfortunately, agriculture contributes to climate change on a microspace, but then we make five times as much undesirable emissions when we transport them from one point of the world to another on cruise ships or airplanes. And then I looked at a commercial record, 2018, it's a closed year, flight. It's been overthrown by the world, so we humans here on Earth, the number of flights within a day, so how many planes have flown within a day I find it very difficult to express, and I apologize. The point is that this happened in June 2018, let's see, more than 202 thousand planes flew in June 2018 on a day. It's a world record, it hasn't flown since then, but that's how many flights it took, 202,000 planes in one day. Within this, there was an hour, an afternoon's length, when there were 19 thousand planes in the air at once. And this year, in 2018, there were over 4 billion flights of these planes. So is agriculture really the biggest criminal here in the problem of our Earth's temperature rise? So let's see if we're really on the right foot when we start pushing this problem, and agriculture should be retiring from this right now, with possible completion of soil rotation farming. I do not believe in this very much, and yet I cannot explain who it was and why it is in your interest that agriculture should be set as a quasi-criminal in this area. And maybe whoever's still using water to irrigate, and that's the main criminal I'm seeing in the world's greens right now, and I'm asking you to be careful about that, and rather with the knowledge of real skills, that's how we handle it or reject it. And one more thing, if I still have time. Agnes Vadai, New York Times. I read that article, and it has to be rejected. So the article suggests that he claims that criminal gangs in Hungary are thrashing the system of land-based support for the European Union in a gangster manner. [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: That's right.]] That's what the article suggests. Let us be clear: anyone who has spent a minute in agriculture knows precisely that a hard GPS-based net, broken down into square meters, can be seen after which land one can claim, and whoever overclaims it will be cut down, penalty, repayment and the rest. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Of course, you may have a problem with why anyone who receives this aid has obtained so much land, why he had it, or why he has it now, in a public limited company, in Kft., and why he now has 6-8 thousand or 10 thousand hectares in cultivation, you can argue with that. Of course, I like to see what happened before 2010 [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the establishment of a capital-based major estate system, which you have done, was still the case, but the fact is that today the European Union is illegally unable to draw money from it, only after the cultivated land and their livestock. So you can't make these producers look like criminals. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Because if it were true, they would have been prosecuted long ago, so I refuse. Thank you for your patience. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-05-84	Congressman Tibor Nunkovich, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2019-11-05-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Sándor Font's little look-out was about as if we were driving off the Boulevard to Hungaroring, and the poor man was still circling. [[Nacsa Lawrence:]] [[13.30]] We will also be very likely to support this bill, all the more so, because we have to make up for 30 years in this area, and all that really happened in these 30 years is that the irrigation system and the water storage system have been completely decommissioned and abandoned, so we have a huge disadvantage for other countries, which is exactly the time to bring in. My fellow Member from Hungary has said that he has concerns about the shortage of professionals, and that is indeed justified. We have also received information from the water directorates and other authorities that a lot of people have left the field, precisely because they have not been paid, their work has not been properly appreciated, so we would very much like the government to take into account their work in the future and try to reward their services. It has been mentioned how this will affect the soil, and at the hearing of the Commission, Minister, he said that technologies will be put into service that will be able to tell precisely what minerals the soil needs in a given place. So I am not really afraid that we should talk about soil depletion here, and indeed, in the case of Hungary, it will be precisely that these soils need this irrigation system. And by the way, the Hungarian population also needs this irrigation system, because if in two weeks' time we are faced with no bread on the table, then, I think, there will be much more indignation. I am very pleased that several of my fellow Members with Fidesz and KDNP have said in the last hour that there is a climate crisis and that Hungary must respond to it. I think there haven't been as many Fidesz MPs in the last few years who would've admitted that as they are here in the last hour. I'm glad you've finally woken up in this area. 15 years is a long time, by the way. I think that in 15 years, a lot can happen to the soil itself, when we will also have to respond to how we are going to change that. I think this could still be the subject of a debate. But I would like to highlight two things in any way. One is that farmers do not know the conditions, they do not know how much support they will have, how much they will be able to call for subsidies, and how much the system itself will cost them, obviously depending on the size of the plant. So that's why it would have been good for the state land, let's say, not to squander, but to create such model farms, where you can show the Hungarian farmers that please, Józsi, this is how you can make the irrigation system, that's what it will cost, so a tender looks like, and then we can help you with that. [[Sándor Font: Mezőhegyes! That's why!]] One piece, okay, congratulations. [[How many do you need?]] Let's make it a hundred, shall we? [[Sándor Font: And do we present the same on each of them?]] Sure. But this is not a dialogue, so press a button, my fellow Member, if you want to argue.
u2019-11-05-86	Dear fellow Member, As strange as it may be for you, Nunkovics, there is only one congressman in this Parliament who listens. Consequently, he now owns the right to speak, but he speaks. Here you go.
u2019-11-05-87	Thank you. So once again, the road is good, we can support this proposal, but there are shortcomings that we would like to see replaced, and we hope that these recommendations will be taken into account in the discussions in the Commission. One of the most important proposals would be that I do not see the protection of the drinking water base and groundwater in this law, which is very important. So Hungary is a water-rich country, and we cannot do that, we have such a responsibility to society, that we use these resources even to irrigate them. So we need to take care of that. [[Balázs Győrffy intervenes.]] We're still not talking about a dialogue. Thank you. [[Balázs Győrffy: I'm just trying to help.]] Okay, then the committee... Okay, thank you very much. That's all I wanted to say. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-11-05-88	Congressman László Hajdu, DK!
u2019-11-05-89	Mr President, Mr. Secretary. As a member of the Committee on Sustainable Development, I believe that I would like to contribute to the debate in a few words. Maybe I'll contribute. The Secretary of State has already indicated that this law will come, so we knew that it was coming, and it was also possible to read it. So I'd like to speak to a different part of it, but I'd like to speak to another segment of it. In my past, I have spent 30 years in the protection of prices and inland waters, and I am a professional, but not on the agricultural side, and I can see that the implementation of this is only the network itself, i.e. the existing flood protection open trenches and streams or anything like water supply systems or transport on underground lines, like Croatia and Austria, all require huge investments. If I take this experience from Croatia, they do not release water into the Danube, they hold it back. The Drava River is the retention, and along the two lines of the Drava, as long as there is a plain, and the lowland part is functioning, they achieve fantastic production results, not in such conditions as ours, of course. The change of regime has given us forms of compensation and share ownership, where we are at war with undivided common property both in agriculture and in the interior. I think that the assessment of the condition that open ditches of inland water protection, which in the event of a flood cause significant amounts of water and cause inland water, are pouring millions of square meters of water, and then they are dried up, and the weeds and trees are growing on them, so the condition of these and making them operational, because I think that the transport of water has to be resolved in some way, the plan is not known at the moment, only the law, the thought, but it can already be foreseen that this could mean huge investments, such large Wesselényi plans. Even if we project it to 400,000 hectares, it's still a huge investment, but even to 100,000 hectares, I think. That's one of the things I wanted to mention. The other one. There is the Austrian version of water retention, which I have the pleasure of knowing, but this is also the way it works in Slovenia, when they hold the water itself with a barrier and pour it gravitationally into the various reservoirs, and do not need to use enormous energy to fill the reservoirs and feed agriculture for summer irrigation. But in ours, the word storage, it can't be pronounced, it's the same curse word as anything else. So I see the possibility of water abstraction, water retention, while Hungary is the centre of the water catchment area, it is huge, you can say that almost every country's precipitation water, snow and other water flows through Hungary, but it just runs through and the water is gone. So we would be rich in water, perhaps even in good water, but at the same time in water retention I do not see in the law, of course, in a government decree, what ideas are there for water retention, to preserve this value. Resources should be clearly indicated in this, but I do not see the plan in the legislation, nor did the Secretary of State mention it in the oral amendment. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-05-90	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. First, Congresswoman Agnes Vadai, DK. [[13.40]]
u2019-11-05-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say this to Congressman Nacsa because he just said that I was wrong to say that I didn't say it wrong. The National Earth Control Center operates as an irrigation agency, and I know that from no other source than the agricultural purse, because I asked the agricultural purse in this case. So it is important to make this clear that there is no mistake, and I think there is probably a connection between us. [[Attila Gelencsér will be replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]] I would like to say to Mr Font that I believe that no Member has said that agriculture is the main sinner. We have expressed concerns, and your speech shows that irrigation farming is much more than an agricultural issue, much more than agriculture, it is a more complex issue. And indeed, I think it is right to ask the question of how our way of life is influenced by the current change. That is why there should be strategic debates on these issues and long-term plans, which unfortunately have not been prepared in the Parliament. Right now, in the context of the watering bill, it is clear that these issues should be dealt with, because what may have been in order ten to twenty years ago, and you are a great expert in technologies and things from ten to twenty years ago, it may not work that way today, in twenty years' time, it certainly will not work that way. I suppose they want children, grandchildren and the next generation to enjoy, say, the waters of Hungary, the Hungarian agricultural products, but this requires a fundamental change and a rethink of the possibilities available. I think such debates should be pushed forward in the Hungarian Parliament. As far as the various alternative farming options are concerned, I would just like to say to Congressman Font: Kishantos. Thank you.
u2019-11-05-92	Congressman Zoltán Balczó, Jobbik!
u2019-11-05-93	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. The debate that has emerged here in connection with irrigation farming and its ring is so important that I am not a professional, I think I may be able to comment. Let me just add that in eight years of parliamentary representation, I tried to sit in front of me with something sticking to me, or let me mention the atmosphere that was between 1998 and 2002, when the agricultural politician, Zoltán Kis, who was sitting in front of me, had asked me, as a lead speaker, to put this issue in order for me at the beginning, and we went out and explained in five minutes that I knew the basics. Now, in this relatively good atmosphere of debate, what I want to say is that I have agreed with a lot of what Sándor Font said, especially when he gave us the deterrent examples of the global economy in relation to climate protection, and it is clear that we need to prevent this from happening. But I would like the Fidesz government to represent such a priority for the local economy in this country, and when it comes to reading the New York Times article, it is not only difficult to say that they are cheating with GPS, but that huge land is given to people close to Fidesz who have nothing to do with farming. And how they get to land compared to local farmers is enough to refer to the Fidesz Secretary of State, József Ángyán, who was sitting in Mr.Sándor Farkas' chair at some point before him, who accurately documented these cases, how local farmers are deprived of the possibility of production. So I would ask you to represent this local economy here in Hungary as well. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-05-94	Thank you. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP!
u2019-11-05-95	Thank you very much. I would like to respond to Mr Font's comment. I do not think that agriculture is the main culprit, and agriculture is the main cause of change. We have never had a substantive debate in Parliament about why man, humanity and Hungarian society are in trouble, so there are very big problems here. We use 1.75 planets, and this also applies to global outlook, and not only climate change is a terrible problem, but also the loss of biodiversity: one million species are threatened by immediate extinction and there are many other aspects of the deepening ecological crisis. Obviously, agriculture and agricultural practices have also helped or have been part of this non-good-looking process. Whether we want it or not, we are sure that the compulsion, so the problems around us, will force us to change fundamentally. I'll give you an example: a year ago, even in my own narrower circles, they didn't believe me when I talked about speeding up climate change; a year didn't go by, and it exploded, and the problems were felt. I am sure that this agricultural issue and the soil will also explode, and it will not take years. What I see now is that we want to build a huge infrastructure with very, very big problems with soil water retention and soil life. This method, if we water like this, will further damage the structure of the soil and the quality of the soil at all. So it would be time, as I said, to stop for a moment and think about how to proceed, and if we want to water, then where, because obviously, the soil-covering method will eventually get very serious space. In such a case, it will be quite different, let's say, the rain that has fallen will not evaporate in seconds, for example, during the summer period, and I could continue the line. For such professional debates [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] meaningful discussions are needed, and sometimes we have to stop for a moment.
u2019-11-05-96	That's right, sometimes you have to stop for a moment, at the end of two minutes and at the end of the second minute. I respectfully request that this be observed. Congressman Font will be here in two minutes.
u2019-11-05-97	Thank you very much. I will try not to provoke the debate any longer, because we are going to deviate from the original very good bill, but let me make one thing clear. Indeed, such a debate has not yet taken place, which way to go, humanity? And perhaps this should not be done in the framework of this law, but a fundamental situation is good for everyone to know: agriculture produces food, so there is no person in the world who is not under the influence because people are eating food and that is it. Now, the question is how much we do this for. Trade and all other forces encourage us producers to do this as cheaply as possible and provide cheap but high-quality food to eight billion people on Earth. It will not be possible to press efficiency to infinity on one side and encourage farmers to produce food with the highest efficiency in a relative unit of hectares, but to maintain quality, and on the other side to protect our environment, nature, and not to eviscerate our Earth, microbiology, species conservation and everything else. This debate has already led so far that it is indeed not within the framework of this law, I see that at a very high level, other world organisations have started to debate about this in substance. Thank you.
u2019-11-05-98	We will now return to the normal speech, and anyone who has applied for a two-minute speech may have the floor afterwards. Congressman Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik!
u2019-11-05-99	Mr. President. I would pick up where my fellow Member, Mr Font, left off: but by the time these world organisations come to the end of these debates, there is a fear that it will be too late. As I have predicted, Jobbik will be able to support this proposal, especially if one or two more amendments, which are indeed professional and should be considered, are accepted, but we should not deny the truth of my fellow opposition Members, because there is indeed a huge problem. For example, when we say that only 55 percent of birds have disappeared in the territory of the European Union since 1980, we are talking about the most recent research facts and, for example, one of the main causes of this disappearance is the transformation of agricultural agroculture, and that is why modern agriculture is responsible, so we do have a responsibility, and what can be done for this. I know this is not the subject of this law, and I didn't want to bring it here, if we hadn't had this debate, but it would be nice to have such laws coming here, even in relation to soil protection, which is a huge backlog. We have talked about it many times, that when, let's say, 20-25 years ago, a child was told that if he wanted to cover his daily vitamin C needs, he should eat a pepper or two apples, today he should be eaten by a kilo to make this thesis true, and we really can honestly say that to the children, because unfortunately that is not true. [[13.50]] Today, the intrinsic value of these vegetables and fruits is far from sufficient to bloat these old truths, mainly due to the drastic fall in the living matter content of our soils, as they were able to promote the uptake of micro- and macro-nutrients in the plant in symbiosis, which then contributed to the increase in internal value. It is also worth talking about, and it would be good to see such laws before the House, and not to wait for the conclusion of the debates of certain world organisations, but also to lead our country in such matters, just because agriculture is more important than many European countries, and let us keep it that way, and let us do so. One more thought: the case of Mezőhegyes was mentioned here. We supported that law. Now let's not go into the backseat of saving Mezőhegyes, overwriting their own ground privatization afterwards, paying off the Fidesz people who had won it before, renationalizing these lands. But yes, with all its initial difficulties, there was a pattern that we supported and supported in the future. However, it should not be an example here, but it would be good to have at least one similar area per county or region with its own part of the task, where the practical education of the domestic farming community could really work on a daily basis. For example, in order to go back to the law, why shouldn't it be a pilot project, let's say, in Kisaland, because it has been said in parentheses, factually in the introduction that this law focuses mainly on the Great Plain, where it exerts its effect. In four counties, the number of irrigable areas will increase radically, as we hope, if this law is adopted, but the majority of the country will not be affected in this respect. Most of all, it's a matter of gift. But why could not the former Secretary of State, József Ángyán, mentioned today, carry out his old dream, re-introduce degrees of management in a state area, and ensure the natural water supply of the soil for plants and animals in the most optimal way, by putting excess water into a well-maintained sewer system in the case of large spring waters, where we would then be able to use the soil as a kind of reservoir and use it for ourselves. Such a project was launched in the region of 2011-12, but then, with the expulsion of Secretary of State József Ángyán, this project was stopped. It is not yet about you, Mr State Secretary, but I urge you that I have had the opportunity to get to know these otherwise well prepared materials, it would be good to dust them off, and to approach water management in smaller areas in a slightly different way than this law does, to try and present them. I don't think it's worth keeping the knowledge of our ancestors in oblivion, but let's get it out, dust it off. I'm sure there are crops where the XXI. In addition to the technologies of the century, this could be a workable thing, and then everyone would be pleased, because I can't think of a greener solution, and yet we could produce food in a sustainable way. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[In the notary seat Dr. László Varga will be replaced by György Szilágyi.]]
u2019-11-05-100	Thank you very much. A two-minute speech was requested by Ms Ágnes Vadai, DK. Here.
u2019-11-05-101	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I think the debate is no longer about irrigation farming directly, but the law was very good to see that agriculture, sustainable development, climate change and the way we live or the way we live have to be dealt with. I'm pretty sure you do. There was an initiative earlier by the opposition to discuss these issues on a debate day. I think it would be worth sitting down under normal circumstances, really not on a political basis, and to start talking about what Sándor Font says, that cheap food, good quality food, at what price, under what conditions and how we will be able to produce the future in Hungary. I do not think that we should wait for the position of the United Nations or any other country on this matter. This is about Hungarian soil, Hungarian water. Although I was not afraid of migrants, I was more afraid of people who would probably try to steal it, as we have seen in the last nine years. But I basically think that the irrigation management law is the basis, but it is clear that there is a lack of the kind of strategic debate that has been needed in Parliament for years, and which would not only address the issue of agriculture, but also what Congressman Font Sándor has said about how flights contribute to climate change and what should be done to this. So basically, it appears that it is now found in irrigation farming, but it is a much more complex problem. I therefore suggest that we find a way to debate this issue, and then we can adopt substantively legislative proposals, because until then it will only be a set of letters written, and nothing will actually come of it. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-05-102	Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State, if you'd like to reflect. [[On behalf of Sándor Farkas:]] You have the floor, please.
u2019-11-05-103	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank those involved in the debate for their extraordinary activity, although, for the second half of the debate, we have already been a little bit off the subject, and we have talked about those global issues, and they have spoken, and they have said their views, which may in some way not be in doubt, of course, it relates to agriculture, but it had to mark a different subject instead. I would like to address the ordinary and two-minute speeches in a few words. First, Balázs Győrffy referred to the development of irrigation in the 1970s and 1980s. When the backbone or foundation of this law was formed within us, we clearly placed the weight on the grounds and on those areas when the irrigation systems were established in Hungary in the mid-70s, the second half of the 1980s, which mainly concerned the departments of Szolnok, Hajdú, Békés and Csongrád, where these systems, the old so-called AC settlements, meant that underground irrigation systems built with asbestos cement pipe had been built from the beginning of the 1970s until the mid-eighties, were built, and the sewer network of water to be delivered to these settlements was also established. Of course, this all came from, first from the Tiszalök, and second from the 1970s, Kisköre was the so-called inn verb that created the possibility for the Great Plain to develop irrigation in this direction. And through his little circle, the Berettyo and the Körös were involved. So the large irrigation system that covers the four counties mentioned above in the Great Plain was actually formed on these. When my fellow Member talks about this 350-400,000 hectares of irrigated land, it does not contain anything new. This area was then furnished for irrigation. We older people apologize for referring to these periods. At the time, in the 1970s, Hungarian agriculture had a boom, when American technologies, the first intensive cereal cultivation programme, the first John Deeres and their machines, or the Babolna economy, the development of the state line also appeared in Hungarian agriculture, this was added to the possibility of irrigation development. This is basically the old apology, and I'm not going to cry back at this time, so that someone doesn't get the wrong idea that we were one of the key farmers of the KGST period all over the world. In 1980 the Moscow Olympics were the ideal time for Hungarian gardeners, everything could be sold. There were no production problems at the time. But we've been through this. I don't want to go back to the past. But it is clear that the areas in which artifacts, infrastructures, sewer networks, pass, ban, fall, let me not tell you these stories are much easier to restore, renovate these canal sections, rebuild them than to create a whole new system. [[14.00]] Therefore, many here have raised the professional question of having the plans for this. Yes, these plans have been completed in a significant way, and I would like to inform you. These large systems, these plans are practically complete from the sandback, the deer, the intersect and the rest, and they will fit into the system that we have talked about a lot before and in the law; and we will not only talk about it, but we will also do so. Thank you very much for the usual statement of support of my better friend Zoltán Magyar. I'm saying it's customary because it's always said that it supports agricultural laws, and indeed, that's usually the case. It's true that we're replacing old debts. I think that now is the moment when, through the provision of adequate resources and through the cooperation of the farming community, this law has been created and I think it will achieve its success. My fellow Member raised the lack of expertise. Indeed, it should be noted that the training of irrigation professionals over the past decades, I dare say, leaves some blame. That is why it is very important that, today, our fellow Members will hopefully not only argue about the VET Act but also make constructive contributions. Now I am going to deviate a little from the watering law, which is why it is very important for us that the term "agrarian" as a concept, as a ministry, appears separately in the agricultural law, and in particular those professions, which are essential sources of education, are an essential part of getting to know the essence, concept and knowledge of irrigation. I think these two things are a little bit further apart in time, but they're still connected. And I am very pleased that, in the VET Act, agricultural trades are properly represented, the Agricultural Ministry and the institutions that are maintained and operated by the Agricultural Ministry, and these important basic professions are expected to be trained in the coming period. This is one part of it, because this is more about operation, it is about the sector where we talk about vocational training, it's about operators. Of course, design is the task of students, engineers at the University of Technology, or perhaps at other higher education establishments. But I wouldn't lose that much weight, we still have experts who can make plans or plans for today. There is an appropriate apparatus that knows the mysteries of this profession, and now, when there were opportunities to develop irrigation investments, these professionals were also available, and they helped farmers and producers to yes, these applications could be prepared, and they could provide appropriate professional plans for this, which, I believe, is acceptable professionally. There was a suggestion that caught my attention; of course more, but I would like to highlight this in connection with the 2013 flood. We've been through a lot of floods, a lot of water, a lot of rainy years, a lot of droughts. But that's an interesting connection. I'd rather say it as a matter of interest. When a flood comes down during a flood, it usually occurs in our Carpathian Basin after 3-4 weeks after the fall of precipitation. Compared to the Tisza river basin, it takes about 14-18 days for the Tisza to reach the flood wave. So here comes the time when it doesn't usually rain, and it can easily be up to 40-50 days when we're actually defending on the dams, but we're also talking about drought-stricken areas. Unfortunately, my practical experience has been, more than once, that in one corner of our territory, our farming area, we pumped inland water, which we brought into the sewer network that served as watering water in the adjacent board. And the best part was that we drained the inland water and paid the water company for my own water, that I could irrigate the other side of the area. I think that the elimination of these anomalies is essential, and this law, too, I think, will help us a lot. It's important to be a producer. We talked about this a lot and talked about it. I also know that I have lived in practice that the word "cooperativeization" is quite difficult for the Hungarian economy, and I still put it delicately. But you need to understand these farmers, you need to understand the economic society that in such tasks clearly only the purpose of this can be to bring results to nothing else. Now I don't want to talk about size limits or size limits, because I don't want to open this debate. We are in enough trouble because of this, to a certain extent, because of the wounds caused by the compensation law, which are very difficult to sew up or sew up even after 30 years. But I have to say, if we have inherited this, this is how we have the opportunity, under today's conditions, to access today's technology, the most modern technology, so that the individual farmer or even a small farmer can win this story. There is no other way to achieve this unless these producers work together. This law provides a serious opportunity, a serious advantage for those who think in a community in a given part of a board or even in a larger area. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Not least, it is very important that this will remove the obstacle to the development of irrigation, which was a huge brake, that I could not go through the other area with even a wheeled equipment, because it could not; now this right of slavery will solve this problem, and I think that we can make a major contribution to the fact that this law can achieve serious results not only as a law but also in practice. I thank my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, for his supportive thoughts. My fellow Member, László Varga, drew attention to extreme weather, environmental concerns and the issue of wells, which is not part of this law, I would like to clarify. So let us not open this question; this is already being discussed in the Committee on Agriculture, and also between ministries. I think this law is about irrigation from surface water. I would like to say this very firmly, it is not about the various drilled wells, it is not about this in this law, it is only about surface water, and the main sources mentioned above belong here. My fellow Member from Vada is a great correspondent at the Ministry of Agriculture. Thank you for keeping us up to date. It's always an honor for me to see, read your interest and sign our answers to that. It doesn't leave us to rest in Hungarian, but there's nothing wrong, we're happy about it, because I think it's important. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Thank you for your answers.]] When you were talking about an irrigation development plan and a shortage of professionals, I think I've already partially responded to these. 15-year review of the Irrigation Development Plan. When you invest, a farmer, a farmer, I would like to say this very firmly, it does not invest for 3 years, it is at least 15 years. If we look now at the ability to generate income, its efficiency, its return, bank interest, I don't want to be lost in economics, it's at least 15 years, it's more like 20, but let's stay in 15. And there was another question, when they also raised it, I just think the story got a little mixed up. And that was nothing more than the soil protection plan. However, this should be reviewed every five years. I'd like to say that this is a huge difference, perhaps you've missed it. The soil protection that we have been talking about here a lot, how much we are ruining our soils: here I would note that irrigation is indeed a technology, an intervention in nature that has dangers; let us be honest, there are dangers. [[14.10]] But a consciously-farmed, professionally-prepared farmer knows how much and how to do it. When we talk about irrigation, I have already said this in the expozee of the bill, a significant part must be divided: there is a rain substitute irrigation and there is a continuous supply of irrigation water for intensive gardening cultures. At a time when we are thinking specifically of precipitation, there have been a number of cases where the drought has been going on for 30 days, the farmer is flooding his territory, and 40 millimeters of rain comes, and from one moment to the next he has passed from drought to the inland. I cannot prepare for this, I would like to say, but at the same time I do not want to open that debate, because it is much more important and much bigger professionally, not underestimating my fellow Members, but it is much more professionally prepared to talk about unploughed soil cultivation or simple ploughing agriculture, because these two concepts are still a serious dilemma in the world's professional circles. Not only is it a dilemma, but it depends on the region, the soil, the soil structure, the golden crown value, the golden bond number, and let me not explain how much else depends on the area or perhaps the terrain and the other means of cultivation, which relaxation should be chosen. This is a serious professional issue. There are a lot of people here who have said their thoughts, and I don't want to go into that, and once again, the profession doesn't clearly know how to say yes or no. This is something that the farmer can decide in a significant way which technology works for the plant in his territory, so I say that this is complicated and what damage I could have done to irrigation earlier. Of course, a colloidal blur, an organic matter loss, a soil compaction that can occur. That's why we have the profession to prevent that. How do you prevent it? First of all, today we haven't heard the word organic fertilizer. Basically, that's what they like to keep quiet today, that's what I'm talking about. If soil life is to be maintained, organic fertilization of these areas should be carried out at least every 3-4 years and every three years for irrigation. That's why I think it's important, and then we didn't tell you about livestock. So there's so much in the agricultural sector that it's not always possible to take out a very short orbit or a short slice, because on this basis, it comes right in, how the importance of livestock farming combines with the efficiency of irrigation within the crop, because without these two, really, if we just water, we bring the soil residue down from the area, life dies and we lose our options. But this is not the case because farmers who water in Hungary today know very well what technology they need to comply with in order to maintain sustainability and what technology they can use to maintain their production. In response to our fellow Member, Erzsébet Schmuck, I have now tried to talk about the protection of the soil, the ploughing and ploughing of the soil, which are particularly professional issues. In addition, Mr Font confirmed to me the idea of where we were together, and we saw how intensive American grain production works, which, in my opinion, is clearly not possible in Hungary, with such complete adaptation, but we see what opportunities we have. The fact that we dumbed down Tibor Nunkovics said that we had dumbed down the irrigation farming, I also pointed out that there was a recovery in the '70s, and then it was compensation, which basically pushed this irrigation farming into a significant part of the background. I was talking about the soil protection plan, and the groundwater is not regulated by this law. Congressman Hajdu spoke of internal water protection systems, variations of retention. Indeed, but in these systems it is very important that the protection of prices and internal water is a very closely linked story, and if irrigation is involved here, it is clearly the use of dual-purpose channels in the profession, which also leads to inland water and can also supply irrigation water. The maintenance and renovation of these will give us the opportunity to have adequate water in these canals. Otherwise, the water flow of the Tisza and its tributaries, either the Körös or the Maros, is still largely consistent with our plans at any time of the year. Of course, in the long term, I believe that storage is inevitable and that in those dry periods it may be necessary to replace the right amount of water. Then came the two-minutes, everyone here rather tried to respond to the other's thought, which I thank, and I thank you for the way in which the law is, I think, more or less ahead and not in the mouth, but perhaps I feel that there is a mood here in Parliament today that is clearly going to serve this law, even if it is with amendments, but its support. Thank you very much. [[To Dr. Agnes Vadai:]] Anyone who doesn't, we'll be sorry and we'll continue to write to you, honourable Member. You are loyal to yourself, we are working for you, and we want the agricultural profession, the agricultural world, to continue to be able to develop properly and to put food on the table of all Hungarians with sufficient efficiency and adequate security. One of the fundamental conditions for this is the adoption of this law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-05-104	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Farkas. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the draft law amending certain legislation concerning the financial intermediary system and public finances and economic stability until closure. The government referral is T/7842. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Gábor Gion, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Finance, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-11-05-105	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, I'm trying not to take 30 minutes for efficiency, but I'm trying to give a comprehensive presentation here on the bill. The proposed legislation contains rules on both the regulation of participants in the capital market insurance and banking sector and measures concerning the public finances area. Overall, it can be concluded that the sections designed to amend certain elements of the financial intermediary system make up the vast majority of the bill, including proposals to fulfil our EU legal harmonisation obligations to a significant extent. In addition to the legislative harmonisation amendments, three areas would be highlighted: the topics of guarantee funds, savings fund products and the supervisory fee, followed by the presentation of changes to public finances and economic stability. Dear Parliament, The amendment to the Capital Markets Act primarily ensures the harmonisation of an EU regulation on the so-called issue prospectus to be published when securities are offered to the public or securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market. This, as the brochure is mentioned in the jargon, is not a novelty in the world of securities; the Capital Markets Act has already included the regulation of this legal institution, which rests on EU funds. [[14.20]] However, since the previous directive was replaced by a regulatory regime at the level of regulation, i.e. which is directly applicable in all the Member States of the European Union in July this year, the domestic regulatory environment should also be adapted to this. The purpose of regulation at regulation level is to provide investors across Europe with information according to the same scheme and requirements in relation to public securities, and to obtain the same information as a potential buyer of a specific share or bond. In essence, the rules on the obligation to provide information have not changed, but the content behind certain concepts that have been used so far is slightly altered due to regulatory determination. In a number of consultations with the relevant market participants and the supervising MNB, we clarified the technical details with my colleagues, which will ensure that the amendment is applied in a simple way. The amendment of the Capital Markets Act, together with the amendment of the Act on certain claims resolution measures to strengthen the stability of the credit institutions and the capital market, concerns the organisational system which eliminates the single working organisation and joint management of guarantee funds for investor protection and deposit protection purposes. The National Deposit Protection Fund, commonly known as the OBA and the Investor Protection Fund, i.e. the work organisation of BEVA, was merged in 2015. However, based on the experience of the period since then, it has been demonstrated that the substantial diversity of guarantee schemes in the form of funds in the money and capital markets requires the separate management and operation of guarantee funds. The range of subjects provided by OBA and BEVA, the different interests to be protected by the operation of the funds and the different nature of the operation of the funds make it more appropriate and efficient to operate separately. Economic economies of scale, synergy for investor protection and deposit protection funds could not be interpreted, and even the two guarantee funds can achieve their objectives effectively if they are able to respond to market challenges in a flexible, rapid and transparent manner and can do so more effectively as a separate organisation. Therefore, in order to increase the level of protection of depositors and investors and the responsible and transparent functioning of each fund, the single working organisation of the OBA and BEVA and the joint management of the work organisation will be terminated by 31 December 2019. Honourable Members, The supervision of the financial intermediary system, i.e. those providing services in the field of credit institutions, capital markets and insurance, has been carried out by the Hungarian National Bank since 2013. The costs incurred in carrying out the task shall be covered by the supervisory fee imposed on service providers. Ensuring the smooth functioning of the financial intermediary system and protecting the interests of users of services and maintaining and strengthening trust in financial institutions are of paramount importance to all of us. There has been a significant increase in costs for supervisory tasks in recent years, including in relation to the provision of adequate staff, training and IT developments, and it has therefore become necessary to increase and update the fees that have remained unchanged since 2007. The requirement for a minimum subscribed capital of financial institutions as a market entry barrier for more than two decades has also been updated. We also recommend raising this, updating it. As a number of relationships, the working institutions also apply this, so we recommend a certain period of preparation for them. The submitted bill contains new rules for housing savings banks for products without State aid. In the case of contracts concluded without State aid, some restrictions are unnecessary and hinder the development of flexible conditions. For example, it is not justified to authorise the supervision of new contractual arrangements, which had previously been required for large amounts of State aid for savings. It is not appropriate to provide for a total prohibition of sub-total removal or payment in equal instalments. The amendment of the law requires the modernisation of certain rules, such as the expansion of the liquidity management toolkit. Dear Parliament, In conjunction with the theme of the amendments to the financial intermediary system, I would just like to briefly point out that the proposal includes further amendments, including in relation to supervision, investment funds and certain aspects of resolution. To conclude this part, I would like to emphasise once again what I have already indicated in the context of the amendment of the Capital Markets Act, there has also been a multi-faceted consultation with the relevant professional organisations and the MNB responsible for financial supervision in order to reflect the outcome of the legislative wording on the broadest possible basis. Dear House, I would now like to turn to the other priority issue, the public finances, which is also mentioned in the title of the bill. The draft proposes two legislative amendments to public finances. One is the Act on Hungary's economic stability. There are currently two different sovereign debt concepts in Hungary, despite their similarity, in some respects. One is the so-called Maastricht debt indicator according to the EU methodology and the other is the debt indicator developed in relation to the Hungarian fiscal rule system. Through the proposal for unification, this duality will cease, the Maastricht indicator will also be used in the Hungarian fiscal rule system, as it has become clear in the time since the creation of the law that this duality is not necessarily necessary to maintain, caused confusion, confusion, and otherwise the Maastricht indicator is in general use. The crucial rule of the Fundamental Law does not change, of course, according to which, until the debt ratio reaches 50 per cent, the budget leading to the increase in debt cannot be accepted. Unlike earlier, external factors already known in the planning process, which led to a change in the government debt ratio, such as the effect of the exchange rate change in the forint, cannot be ignored in drawing up the debt indicator in the draft budget law, which is only possible in the implementation of the budget. An important change is the repeal of the so-called debt formula. The government is committed to a continuous reduction in the ratio of public debt. However, as regards the level of the reduction, it is not necessarily necessary to provide for additional legal provisions beyond the existing basic legislation and EU rules. This is why we are proposing the cancellation of the so-called debt formula that has not been applied in previous years. The second is the Public Finance Act, the amendment of which aims to remove the so-called residue at the end of the year in EU support appropriations, in order to avoid their continuous and unnecessary accumulation. The rule does not affect the system of payment of EU aid and does not affect the way in which it works in any way, it is only budget-technical and administrative. Dear Parliament, In conclusion, the purpose of the proposed legislation is to ensure the sound functioning of the financial sector and public finances. I therefore ask you to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-05-106	Thank you very much, Secretary Gábor Gion. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Mihály Witzmann, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-11-05-107	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, T/7842 amending certain legislation concerning the financial intermediary system and public finances and economic stability. A number of amendments are made, including legislative provisions on the separation of the National Deposit Insurance Fund and the Investor Protection Fund, as Mr State Secretary has already told us in detail. In addition, the legislative amendment includes amendments to the so-called brochure regulation in this regard and includes further clarifications in order to comply with sectoral EU legislation such as the mortgage credit directive and the CSD regulation. [[14.30]] The proposal also includes amendments to the Public Finance Act and the Act on Hungary's economic stability, some of which, if I may, I would like to highlight. The Hungarian investor protection and deposit protection regulations are based on the existence of separate legal entities. The range of subjects provided by guarantee schemes in the form of funds in the form of money and capital markets, the different legal and economic interests to be protected by the operation of the funds and the different nature of their operation require separate management and operation of the guarantee sheets. CXCIV of 2011 on Hungary's economic stability. The amendment of the Act serves as a clarificational purpose to adapt to economic policy concepts which are accepted both in Hungary and internationally without fundamentally changing the system of rules on debt reduction resulting from the Fundamental Law. The current rules also define an independent sovereign debt concept and an independent debt indicator, which differs from the so-called Maastricht sovereign debt and sovereign debt indicators, which are applied by domestic and international organisations, experts, decision-makers and the general public. In fact, in order to simplify and clarify this duality, the present amendment aims to eliminate this duality by including the Maastricht debt concept and the debt indicator as part of the Economic Stability Act. At the same time, it provides that if certain factors falling outside the competence of the Government were to increase the Maastricht indicator, but without these factors there would otherwise be a decrease, the impact of these factors should not be taken into account. Dear House, The 2011 CXCV on public finances. The amendment of the Act aims to abolish the residual amount of EU aid. The budget for these appropriations will still be determined on the basis of the expected payments at the time of the planning, as it is not yet clear to what extent the appropriations for the year will be used, so that any residual that may arise may not be calculated using the following year. Experience in recent years has shown that the sum of the end-of-year residues is on an ever-increasing trend. The transfer of unused resources to the following year is therefore not justified as the total annual resource requirement is planned in the form of grants and the additional resources may be managed by opening appropriations from top-up due to unexpected situations. For this reason, the amendment provides for the automatic deletion of these unnecessarily formed residues by law, similar to centralised appropriations. The above-mentioned so-called brochure Regulation seeks to clarify the rules governing the preparation, content and format, approval and publication of information to be published when securities are offered to the public or admitted to trading on a regulated market in a Member State or operating in a Member State. This issue was also based on a directive regulation earlier, and the replacement regulation is directly in force in all EU Member States, including Hungary. And, as Mr Secretary of State has just mentioned, it is necessary to adapt certain provisions of sectoral legislation to a regulation and to repeal unnecessary provisions in the course of harmonisation. Dear Parliament, As I said, we can also read in the bill about the amendment of the Public Finance Act and the Act on Hungary's economic stability. It is important to note that since 2010, the Hungarian government has created a stable economy, which can be supported by a number of data. I think that it is unnecessary to list all macroeconomic indicators in this keynote speaker's speech, but it is clear that the country's budgetary stability and economic growth have been evident year after year since 2010. Otherwise, the Hungarian economy was able to expand well above the EU average level in 2018, the stability of public finances could continue to grow and the deficit also developed positively. The government debt-to-GDP ratio also decreased at a higher rate than expected. Last year, the government debt ratio fell even further compared to previous years, GDP declined to 70.2 per cent, while the deficit was achieved at 2.3 per cent below both the EU criterion and the target. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before you contains a number of forward-looking provisions both in terms of the financial intermediary system and in order to further increase economic stability, which is why I ask my fellow Members to support the proposed bill, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-05-108	Thank you very much, Congressman Witzmann. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2019-11-05-109	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for the introduction, the expo. I would not repeat the things that the Secretary of State has already said about the bill, but I would like to highlight two things. On the one hand, I would like to talk a little bit about the European Commission's EU Capital Markets Initiative and about the need to negotiate and adopt such proposals because we see that the Hungarian economy has achieved extremely good results since 2010 and if we compare the current figures with the 2010 figures, then we see that 800 thousand more people are working, we have overcome the public debt in a significant part and the exposure, because now a significant part of the public debt is not in foreign currency, but in the hands of Hungarian investors and Hungarian citizens. With regard to labour market transformations, we see that the 800 thousand people with whom more people work and pay taxes and generate GDP are doing incredible work, and so the Hungarian society has never worked as a whole. We see that our economic growth is above the EU average, and we have been one of the EU's top riders here in recent years with our economic growth. We see that there are alarming signs, but it is important, for example, to create a situation that will make the Hungarian economy and, for example, Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises easier, cleaner with the economic protection action plan launched in summer or with further measures. That is why it is important, as said by the Secretary of State, that cross-references or unused sections of certain legislative sections which were not required or which could have caused confusion or overlaps between several things, should be removed. That is why I think it is important to clarify the situation a little bit. The second is the Capital Markets Union, which takes place on the basis of the European Commission's action plan, and the implementation of this in Hungary or the greater involvement of Hungary is included in this proposal. This is a Commission objective that serves to provide new sources of funding to companies and especially small and medium-sized enterprises, which we welcome here in the Fidesz-KDNP Group Association, because small and medium-sized enterprises have a very high priority position and are very important components of the Hungarian economy and should therefore be given priority support. It is very important that you want to reduce the cost of raising capital, increase the opportunities for savers across the EU and facilitate cross-border investment and make the EU more attractive to foreign investments. We agree with these goals, because we believe that Hungary's competitiveness is the goal, and we believe that a European Union can function well if the Union can remain competitive. We see that there are signs of this right now, but it is precisely because of such and similar proposals that Hungary in the EU, even the whole Union, can maintain its competitiveness and even increase the global competition that we can see around us. Competitiveness will be a key word in the coming period, which is why technological development, technological change, the creation of higher value added jobs are a priority, and I think that it is also for the government and the majority in Parliament. It is obviously important in the Capital Markets Union that it wants to support long-term projects here, not overnight, but in a much longer and more predictable period, and to make the European Union's financial system more robust, competitive and resilient. This is why the European Commission proposed an action plan in 2015. Here, the majority of the measures aimed at channelling financial intermediaries to capital markets. I think that the obstacles or obstacles to cross-border investment are, in any case, a goal to be supported to break them down and to no longer stand in the way of cross-border investment or development. [[14.40]] Thus, most of the current proposal includes an amendment to the Capital Markets Act. There are many references to these EU legislation, directives and the Commission's action plan. So, as my fellow Member has said, the Fidesz-KDNP fraction association and the KDNP fraction support the proposal, and I ask you to do the same. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-05-110	Thank you, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I now give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2019-11-05-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Dear fellow Members, The proposal amends the following laws, allowing a few points to be highlighted. Amendment to the 1993 law on voluntary mutual funds. The annual supervisory fee to be paid by the cashier increases by around 50 percent, but the change is not significant in sum. More importantly, the annual rate of the variable fee payable by the cashier from 0,25 to 0,3 per cent of the market value of the cashier's assets It's rising. Amendment of the 1996 Housing Savings Bank Act. In the case of home savings products where there is no state aid, we say that in a very fast law, you have modified it in extremely scandalous circumstances, where about HUF 70 billion a year has been taken from the Hungarian families, laying down much more flexible conditions for the cashier, it is not necessary to pay in installments every month, and it is easier to obtain an advance. In addition, the range of activities that can be carried out by the cashiers will be further expanded. Amendment to the 1997 Act on Private Pensions and Private Pensions. Annual rate of variable fee payable by the cashier from 0,25 to 0,3 per cent of the market value of the cashier's assets It's rising. Amendment to the 2001 Capital Markets Act. The proposal is the Tpt. In its amendment part, some definitions are set out in EU 2017/1129. in accordance with its regulations. In addition, the regulation of public share issuance will be amended. The Investor Protection Fund was previously merged with the National Deposit Insurance Fund. However, this merger will be terminated on 31 December 2019 and the transitional arrangements for both managers and employees will be laid down in the proposal. Amendment of the 2007 law on investment firms and commodity services and on the regulation of their activities. The supervisory fee also increases significantly for investment firms in several cases. The 2011 amendment on Hungary's economic stability would be aimed at amending the rules on public debt. At the 2018 final report, we also said on the part of the Hungarian Socialist Party that we should propose very serious regulations here, because the calculation of public debt is not in line with the figures we know and the actual figures we called attention to this when accepting the closing account and in the debate, because these figures show hundreds of billions of HUF difference. Government debt should be calculated in the future in the manner set out in Council Regulation (EC) No 25 May 2009 on the application of the Protocol on the excessive deficit procedure annexed to the Treaty establishing the European Community, which, according to the author, has been in practice based on it. The proposal makes it clear that the amount of public debt is not increased by exchange rates. For example, if the Budget Act expects an exchange rate of HUF 309, the euro has increased to HUF 332 in spite of the fact that the foreign exchange debt does not have to be taken into account. If the methodology for calculating public debt changes during the year, then the resulting increase in public debt should not be seen as an increase. The proposal removes the so-called debt formula. This is the rule adopted during the ministry of Matolcsy, which has been amended since then because of its non-compliance, which would require extraordinary cuts from the current government if both GDP growth and inflation were to rise to more than 3 per cent. This formula did not have to be applied even once, as the inflation system developed at a lower rate than 3 per cent. However, this may change in the near future, and it is therefore increasingly urgent for Fidesz to repeal this self-gotten, significant economic policy error as soon as possible. The change in the detailed rules concerning the procedures conducted by the MNB is the amendment of the 2013 Act on the National Bank of Hungary in relation to the access to documents, copies of documents; the amendment of the 2013 Act on Loans and Financial Enterprises. Due to changes in real value in the period since the establishment of the initial capital of banks, financial corporations and cooperative credit institutions, it is necessary to increase the amount of initial capital as proposed by the government in order to preserve the valueability of the amounts. The amount of the supervisory fee also increases for banks and financial undertakings. To sum up, although most of the bill does indeed serve to harmonise EU legislation, it is also necessary to highlight two areas. The increase in the supervisory fee or annual fee payable to the MNB as a supervisor for all financial actors, be it the bank, financial firm, stock exchange, insurance, private pension fund, insurance fund and the rest, it is clear that it will result in significant extra income for the central bank, even if the government remains in debt with the exact figures for the reasons. We do not see how much revenue will come from this to the MNB, nor do we see what the MNB is going to spend this on. From a political point of view, the most important thing is the cancellation of the so-called debt formula. As Minister of National Economy, György Matolcsy presented this rule, and I quote: "This is a modern formula, this formula helps us. This debt rule is the most modern rule in the EU. It's a serious weapon in economic history. In the end, it was considered such a serious weapon that the Varga Ministry had already had to initiate an amendment to this formula, because the Fidesz government would have pushed itself into a grip of almost 700 billion dollars if this formula had been applied. The new rule, which requires strict austerity if GDP growth and inflation rise above 3 per cent, has not yet been applied once, but this may happen already in 2020. We see that over the last few months, the communication of the past years indicates that György Matolcsy has also stood before the public several times and has warned the Hungarian population and even the government that we can observe movements towards another economic collapse, and another crisis may be approaching. In fact, we can now read that economic experts predict this crisis over the next two years, and that is what György Matolcsy and Mihály Varga have warned about. Therefore, the Matolcsy state-of-the-art rule of political pride only goes into the trash for good, because if this rule were to be applied by the government and that rule would remain in the law, then the Orbán government would have to make very serious restrictions immediately. It is also necessary to highlight the change in the methodology for the calculation of public debt and the fact that it will not be included in the amount of government debt in the future if any exchange rate changes significantly compared to the planned one. We also discussed the 2018 budget in Parliament with a much better exchange rate for the euro than we were then standing, and we warned the government that this was not well, that a budget is not planned to take account of the exchange rate movement, and that is what they are trying to correct now. Now the 2019 budget has also been adopted since we have seen a steady increase in the rate of HUF compared to the euro for months, and this has not been taken into account in the budget for years. [[14.50]] Because of these two serious mistakes, we cannot accept this legislative proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. [[Krisztina Hohn applauds.]]
u2019-11-05-112	Thank you very much, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. I will give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, Jobbik.
u2019-11-05-113	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, We have listened in detail to the amendments to the law in the previous minutes, and you, Mr Secretary of State, and my fellow Member Bangóné have very thoroughly summarized the failings of the law. A few things have not yet been said, and I would like to point out that we are talking again about a salad law: 17 laws are being amended by this legislation. Most of these are intended for EU harmonisation purposes, which must, of course, be implemented, as those regulations and directives make it mandatory for Hungary to transpose them in the European Union, which must be done. However, there are some amendments to this legislation that need to be highlighted. To say one positive thing, which I consider to be saving in this bill, it is to significantly increase initial capital due to changes in the law on credit institutions and financial corporations; to double initial capital for both banks and financial corporations, branches of third country credit institutions or financial holding companies. This will certainly provide security for our country, as these financial undertakings will only be able to carry on their activities in the near future with a higher start-up capital. However, as has already been said, one of the biggest question marks is the amendment of the sum of the government debt and the government debt ratio, since at present, according to the Act on Economic Stability, the government debt must be shown in the Central Budget Act as a sum. Now, in the closing accounting debate, we have also drawn attention to the fact that we are hearing that public debt is falling, because the government debt has actually fallen in proportion to GDP, but if we look at it in summary, it will increase. As in the general explanation of this bill, there is one such sentence, which was also highlighted by the Secretary of State, that it has become clear in the time since the creation of the law that this duality does not necessarily need to be maintained, so that there are two such calculations of public debt, and you added that this has caused confusion and confusion. I would rather think that it was an inconvenience to the government, because it was visible, even during the closing proceedings, that it was a thousand billion forints, so if you look at it forintally, then this government debt will not only decrease but increase. Yes, now that we go back to a calculation of the fact that only in proportion to GDP will public debt indicators be shown both in the Central Budget Act and in the closure accounts, and then these will be discussed, it will be less comparable to the sum of state tax in previous years. So I consider this to be a very important problem in this bill. I would like to draw attention to one more thing, which my fellow Member Bangóné has also highlighted, and this is the change in the legislation on housing savings. Yes, he also pointed out that this was a fleeting 48-hour amendment in the last year, when the support from the housing savings banks was driven out of the system, and that in this context we now need amendments in relation to the non-supported housing savings fund contracts, which obviously facilitate the operation of the system, but we still have the question marks about the future of the Orbán government with the introduction of housing savings banks for families and Hungarian people and young Hungarians. I think that this is what I wanted to say briefly, and that my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z., has also arrived, and he will continue to complement it. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-05-114	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No one's applied for a two-minute speech. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik.
u2019-11-05-115	Mr President, Dear House, It is clear that the members of the opposition factions, at least within their faction, form a common pair, because I could not have summarized the problems with the bill better than the one before me. What we see is that he is trying to rape parliamentarianism in the form of salad laws, and he often does so with the appearance of professionalism. I don't dispute Mr. Secretary's professional intentions, so don't take this as a personal attack. I see that sometimes well-intentioned professional proposals are also undermined by the salad form, which, of course, can be voted by the fidesz majority, but this does not make it a professionally justified proposal. I would rather consider it fortunate, Mr Secretary of State, if we brought some chapters needed for EU harmonisation here on paper, and then the other on house savings in another debate on another paper, thirdly on a third, fourth and fifth package, where we would no longer be talking about salad law, but thematic packages. Obviously, the related issues can be discussed. Therefore, let's face it, they put not only opposition representatives, where appropriate the representatives of the press and their own fellow Members in an impossible position, who can therefore vote according to their beliefs and beliefs, but also with a less professional basis. At the same time, we see that the issue of sovereign debt may have been raised by all opposition speakers, not by accident. Here, in 2010, the debate broke out between us. At the time, we were reassured by the pro-government representatives that the Hungarian economy will be able to grow on its growth path. These are the key expressions that were distributed on your communication papers at the level of panels, and they said that they were very fondly said and said so many times. I do not necessarily argue that there is an economic climate that can outgrow a similar debt volume, but it is not the Hungarian one. I argue that Hungarians can do this. A exposed economy like ours, I claim that it is not, and although the market typically uses the debt-to-GDP ratio internationally, there is no debate between us in this regard, and this indicator is the only one where fortunately some improvement can be shown. To say the right thing, and to praise you further, the structure of public debt has also been able to go through some improvement in recent years. So once again, let's take the points we agree on and build on them. Where there is a debate between us, it is the amazing extent of the nominal increase in government debt. It is said to us that the market deals with the debt-to-GDP ratio, where the percentage indicator is undoubtedly not saying that within the margin of error, but it is decreasing, although not at systemic level, to a minimum, but since nominal debt is constantly increasing, this debt is increasing by an amount of HUF 1000 billion per year. I have to say that what interests me most is the repayment burden in the current Hungarian budget. Here, in the worst year, since 2010, Hungary has had to repay perhaps 1250 billion for the debts taken up by former communist governments and for the debt that has been mismanaged since then, and in nine years, unfortunately, Fidesz-KDNP has also entered the wrong management camp, as it has not been able to achieve a change at systemic level, we do not really have any knowledge of sovereign debt management ideas, and this mass of debt of about a thousand billion dollars has been pressing the Hungarian economy ever since. So our biggest problem is this, not how you now want to calculate this methodologically and statistically, perhaps comparability will be solved by our own experts. Therefore, I do not understand why the indicators which can be assessed and interpreted from an economic point of view are hidden at the end of the explanatory statement. And this clarification should not only be made with regard to Eurostat and HCSO numbers. I'll give you another example, Mr. Secretary, and please pass it on, because you haven't gotten to the right hand. When Hungary examines inflation, how does KSH work? And I know that you can't direct the KSH from here, from the government seat, I'm not saying that, but only in professional meetings, because we're not invited to the professional meetings, and you're sitting there. Tell us why, in such cases, KSH is counting on the typical consumer cattle basket two years ago, and why not this one. What is the methodological explanation for this? After all, if you were to count on the current one, it would turn out that inflation, which also affects the price of basic foods, is brutally out of line with expectations and that the price of basic foods is particularly high. [[15.00]] So these methodological issues should be discussed. Or I'll tell you one more before I get to the more important issues. How is it that the number of people employed in this House is having huge debates? And I would very much like it, I would have liked this to have been a million new jobs in ten years. Unfortunately, it won't, because let's keep it a huge statistical delusion that's also in the word. How is it, Mr. Secretary of State, that you are on an employee's list as Secretary of State, I, as a Member, the person who does decent physical work in the factory, the doctor, the nurse, but in the same line of work, who does an hour's work every month as a student worker? How's that? How much of this statistics can you read real-life processes? I'm not saying that the system is manipulative, because I'm sure that KSH is not a manipulative institution. What I'm saying is that you're reading out of it a political side that's useful to you, and you're bringing this to Parliament. But that doesn't make it real. Just because we are making methodological changes in the calculation of public debt does not mean that anything changes in the reality of this poor sovereign debt management. There will be a closing point here, I see that there is no serious debate, but I would ask you to give some thought to how you intend to free Hungary from this burden of 1000 billion per year. I'll give you an example. The program of Jobbik. We are waiting to provide rent-building, home-building, housing support and tax exemption for those who give their Budapest or metropolitan property to Hungarian students from HUF 100150 billion, i.e. about one tenth of the huge annual burden that I am debating, from one eighth of this scale. And how many of these development programs could be launched? A plan for Marshall in the Carpathian Basin could be launched with this kind of money, but this would require a sovereign debt management that will determine the path that not next year, not two years from now, not in this government cycle, but in a ten-year perspective, to free Hungary from this amazing burden, some of which is a communist legacy. So I do not consider it justified to vote as a Member of Parliament today for a budget where traces of that era are still present at such a depth, not only in terms of communist luxury pensions, but also in terms of inherited debt. The management of this has not changed in a positive direction, and the processes that you promised us in 2010 have not started and, more importantly, have also been promised to your own voters. This government debt has not been outgrown. After nine years, we are discussing the methodology of calculation in Parliament, which, in total, I consider to be a phenomenon with terrible prospects in terms of our country and nation's sequences. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-05-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Dániel Z. Carpathian? You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-05-117	Mr President, Dear House, This is the result of a single opposition representative who is expecting a debate and is still saving a very important topic in the cartridge. Maybe even two minutes would have been enough if I wasn't at the end of the line. What I would like to ask, Mr Secretary of State, for his substantive opinion and for his personal opinion, is the housing savings banks, not to say that it is killing, in fact, the elimination of the state aid leg, which, perhaps, often believe, has brought only young people into a difficult and unpleasant situation. I have been able to generate debates here many times, where I have confirmed with the example of life that a lot of people, when the CSOK is recorded, have collected the necessary part with LTP, Fundamenta and other methods of pre-saving support. This opportunity has ceased. So a lot of people in the CSOK are disqualified because they can't save themselves in a subsidised form, or they get closer to their housing plans much later, so let's say, to their demographic-evaluable goals much later. This is a huge problem. But you may also know, Mr Secretary, that more than 80 percent of condominiums have also saved their various upgrades, their modernisations, a typical boiler change in LTP form, and that the small budget of the condominium has been so sought to multiply and use it for fair purposes that cannot be disputed. Therefore, these upgrades are difficult to push without danger of life or accident. Indeed, the condominiums have lost this opportunity. That's why I said by far it wasn't just young people. My question, overall, is whether the government plans to amend or strengthen the codification background on condominiums in order to give them some preferential opportunity to replace the one they have just taken; and what the Government of Hungary says to a Hungarian youth, who has also taken away this net, life-saving tool. 2018-2022. parliamentary term Budapest, Tuesday, 5 November 2019 90/2. Number Parliamentary Diary The pilot-like system called the housing lotto, which was then brought back to the House by this government, is unworthy even as an answer at the level of the proposal, so I cannot accept this either, especially because consumer groups, rightly supported by me, were banned in essence by this government, more precisely by the creation of new ones. However, it opened this housing lottery system precisely for these consumer group organisation circles, which at the time it said was intended instead of the state-supported LTP tool. The fact is that anyone who had previously been able to use Fundamenta in a supported way, I would like to point out once again that this way he was able to save money did not have any option. The said housing lotteries may not be worthy of an answer in this regard. I am sure that is not the intention of the Government of Hungary, because after nine years of government, this would be very anemic. However, with regard to these issues, the need for specific answers remains, and we would like to hear them at least in the closing section. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2019-11-05-118	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr Gábor Gion, State Secretary, the rapporteur, to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2019-11-05-119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for your comments, honourable Members. Thank you, Mihály Witzmann, Lőrinc Nacsa, for the additions and support. I will try to answer your questions and comments on the subject. Surveillance fee and salad law. I listened with great interest to the debate of the previous bill on agriculture, climate and nature. I'm not saying that financial mediation systems are as complicated as nature or climate, but they're almost, and they're trying to get close to it. There is a very big change in the financial intermediary system itself, partly with the emergence of technology, partly different new, small, but quite large players, everything else from the crypto Valta, and the regulation tries to follow these changes. There are a lot of new rules coming out at European Union level, a lot of phenomena and new phenomena need to be regulated. So as we can go after it effectively, unfortunately, we often cannot do it one by one, but with a big breath. That's one of them. The other one. New trends need to be followed with the new regulations, but regulation will do us no good if there is no effective supervision. So it's in vain to make rules if we can't keep them. In the case of a supervisory fee, we had to note that, in the same way as the costs of compliance with the legislation have increased, these controls have also increased. Therefore, there is a significant increase in costs for the supervisory body and these revenues must be compensated. I am fully aware of who came from the market that cost increases are never a good thing, but let us acknowledge that they have not changed since 2007 and that we have not touched the definition of the supervisory fee, and now it is an inflation adjustment that we propose to incorporate. So that's it for the custody fee. Congresswoman Bango said there was an economic collapse. The latest analyses do not mention any economic collapse. They're talking about economic slowdown. This may change, by the way, but for now, no one, no serious predictions of economic collapse will occur. He was talking about the debt formula. The debt formula has not been used so far, since there was no situation where inflation was above 3 per cent or economic growth below 3 per cent. [[15.10]] If you look at our convergence report, for the forecast period, we will also not expect an increase of less than 3 per cent for the next 4-5 years or inflation of more than 3 per cent. Government debt ratio and government debt management. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in 2010-11 and now I am talking about Maastricht's government debt, allow me; otherwise, the government debt calculated by the Maastricht method is a little higher than the current government debt, so there is no tricks at this level, there is only a standardisation of around 81 percent. At the end of 2018, our public debt was below 71 percent, so we reduced the government debt by more than 10 percentage points. By comparison, the average European Union achieved this by 1.6 percent in the European Union, so this is significant, and this is also recognised by analysts. The structure of the debt has also changed significantly. Our foreign exchange exposure has decreased significantly and our exposure to foreign institutional investors has decreased significantly. So I would argue, Congressman, that there is no sovereign debt management. Of course, we can argue that sovereign debt management could be better or not, obviously we will not agree on this, but I think that there should be a debate on this. KSH, Eurostat. The negotiations are ongoing. I think that models must be constantly refined, and there are initiatives and ongoing work for this. Apartment savings bank. The congressman asked me for a personal opinion. First of all, we did not eliminate the housing savings bank products, only the state aid. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] So I think that whoever is on the market and who is on the market should be able to produce attractive products to the population without State aid. In the last five years, I have been approached by several banks, housing savings banks, as long as there was significant state aid, and they all began by saying whether I heard how good state aid could be obtained. In other words, they weren't selling a product, they were selling state aid. This is not a natural situation in a market where, in order to sell a product, significant State aid is required. Besides, I think it is a strategic decision of a government to support housing, housing, and it is decided that it intends to support this in a different way. This is the CSOK, this baby shower, which, by the way, shows significant success. It is not true that there is no way for young couples to make their own contribution to buying apartments, which is what baby shower support is all about. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: But the credit.]] A loan that will be released when children are born. I think there's a way, in fact, you can see it's a success, you can see in the number of housing constructions that, by the way, access to housing is still guaranteed. This is a bit off the subject of our bill, but I hope that I have also been able to remove any concerns about the bill as far as I could. Thank you very much for your attention and continue to support the bill. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-05-120	Thank you very much, Secretary Gábor Gion. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill on the amendment of certain health legislation for harmonisation purposes will follow until closure. The government referral is T/7847. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Ildikó Horváth, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda within a 30-minute time frame.
u2019-11-05-121	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Congressman Lords! In our bill on health care, in our legislative package, we would like to proceed on the path that serves, on the one hand, to match our legal order to the international expectations around us and to the new scientific achievements and opportunities that ensure that we move towards a better, smoother health care system. This has been the case in many recent years. The committed steps that we have taken so far have served the purpose of expecting a stronger, healthy nation, more children, more healthy years of life and longer lives. Progress has been made at a number of points, a step further than the EU average, such as progress on preventable causes of death or avoidable mortality since 2011. In the package that I would like to expose today, there are the following details. The first is Annex XI of 1991 on health and administrative activities. A law aimed at excluding a procedure for the administrative activity of the public health authority in relation to the testing of drinking water and to official matters relating to natural medicinal factors and natural mineral waters. This exclusion is due to the need for structural changes in the previous situation when OKI was an independent institution and provides the required professional reporting and professional preparatory data insurance as a department transferred to the National People's Health Centre, so at the moment when the administrative procedure has a total of 8 days, and a decision has to be taken during that period, there is no sufficient time limit to ensure that the professional examinations that this administration has to carry out can actually, in fact, be carried out, including the natural control of these drinking water areas related to the safety of drinking water. For this reason, given the complexity of the cases, this process is thus impossible, and the purpose of the amendment is to provide the authority with sufficient administrative time to make good decisions and well-founded decisions, and therefore the framework of the complex procedure seems appropriate from this process and we recommend that it be excluded. The second amendment proposal in the Act is Article XX of 1996. It applies to the law. This is the law on identification methods replacing the identification mark and the use of identification codes, and our targeted amendment is to ensure that the reporting Treasury provides the system with appropriate information on the fact of death, as well as the ESPT, as well as the NEAK. This is a very important point, the death of the patient must be known precisely, because on the one hand the subsequent cancellation date of the Taj will have a significant impact on the processes, but relevant referrals, recipes can no longer be issued in the patient's name, or those already issued cannot be replaced, so this information service is also required in the ESZT. This very simple situation is the reason for this amendment proposal. The next major part of this package relates to the annual XLVII on the management and protection of health and related personal data. Act amended. [[15.20]] This is our proposal for an amendment to the development of the EEW and to take further steps. The EEST is well-known by the Members and women, and has provided a significant opportunity for the healthcare system, both doctors, professionals and patients, to have a uniform system in which to effectively monitor the substitution of medicines, manage screening tests, and keep patients in constant control of their medical history and health status; we are talking about e-Health, we are talking about e-recepts. From 1 November 2017, when it started, the ESZT is used by around 10 thousand healthcare providers. This means that all public-funded healthcare providers are obliged to use this space. In other words, this means, in other words, the daily work of about 26,000 doctors, the daily work of 13,000 pharmacies. We are talking about a very large supply event, 250,000 daily supply events, and about 800 thousand recipes. Since March 2019 we have accurate data on emergency care, the operation of emergency units and the triage processes available online, significantly helping to keep emergency care in line with needs. The next round of enlargement will take place with the obligation for private suppliers to provide data on the events they provide to the ESPT, and this should take place during the following year. What we are proposing in the legislative amendment is the introduction of new tasks and new functions related to the operation of these systems. The first is intended for patient safety to a significant extent: backloading of health data from institutional IT systems and the NEAK register would take place. Currently, data started and generated in the electronic system on 1 November 2017 are published. With this amendment, we want to ensure that the institutions are able to upload the data on the appropriate gates, going back five years, until 1 November 2012. These data are health records, ensuring that care doctors receive accurate information on the last five years at the time of treatment or, as the years pass, on an increasing length of time during treatment. Similarly, we consider it important that the part of the amendment which provides for the granting of authorisation and control powers to the ÁEEK, the State Healthcare Services Centre in relation to the ESZ; the institutionalisation and regular use of the personal health folder in ESZ; the possibility for future private service providers to use the system of the e-invoicing provider, the time reservation services; we want to ensure that the entitled relatives are able to obtain the rules for exercising the right of access to the ESZ data, so that the relatives can know the data and documents about the data concerned directly through the ESZ, not only from the institution. We also consider it important that measures are taken to regulate disease registers in the legislative amendment and that pharmaceutical care will be supported and strengthened through the ESPT. This means that pharmacists can also look into the drug history of the person through the ESZ, if the person concerned does not object to it, in order to ensure that effective and effective drug therapy can be implemented as far as possible. We know that the work of pharmacists can provide significant help in improving and strengthening patient cooperation. Our next amendment is the 1997 LXXXIII. It concerns the amendment of the law. The amendment provides for the possibility of electronic contact in the case of fair health services, and also ensures that the sectoral law is in line with the provisions of the simplified employment law. There is a strange need to adapt legislation, to be declared excluded from exclusion, that is what they see in the wording. The following proposal, point 5, is the 1997 CLIV. the right to information relating to the patient's personal data, the provisions relating to his right to know the data and the rules in parallel with the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation are abolished. A very important part of the relevant amendments is the area relating to medical devices and related to the implementation of the EU Regulation replacing the European Directive. This EU Regulation entered into force in May 2017 and had three years to prepare for its application, so that the situation will emerge at the end of May 2020 when it is mandatory to apply it. Although this compulsory application is the form for the Regulation to be put into effect, the Commission will allow Member States to legislate and authorise some issues. It was also necessary to examine that the Hungarian legislation transposing the directive and the regulation do not contain parallel or contradictory provisions. This is what is happening in this legislative amendment. The next area is the area of chemical safety. This is XXV of 2000 Amendment to the Act, which is similar to the former, an adaptation of the domestic law resulting from a change in the international legal environment, which aims to bring its requirements into line with the obligations set out in the Annex to the relevant EU Regulation. This gives priority to legal certainty and predictability for the market, and also to ensuring the availability of the administrative time needed for the Authority to make a sound decision, as well as to ensuring that the responsibilities of the competent authorities mentioned above are sufficiently timed. The next amendment to the law is LXXXIV of 2003 on certain issues relating to the pursuit of health activities. Act 1 which ensures that the tasks of the State Healthcare Services Centre designated as the authority involved in the international alert mechanism with regard to medical qualifications are met, so that the three-day time limits set for the authorities responsible for the alert in the Member States can be met. This is followed by the amendment of the law on medicinal products for human use and other laws governing the pharmaceutical market. This is the 2005 XCV. Amendment of law and partly for harmonisation of legislation with regard to new psychoactive substances. In addition, the procedure for authorisation of a medicinal product other than an indication is put on an electronic road to reduce administrative burdens. The third part is that the amendment proposal allows patients to receive the medicine even when it already has a marketing authorisation in the relevant indication area but has not yet been placed on the market in the European Union. This is a new legal framework, which we hope will help us to apply new products rapidly as needed. It is necessary to amend Annex 2 to the Medicines Act in order to follow the requirements of the Hungarian legal order on the basis of the conclusions reached by experts in the EU-wide risk assessment of some new psychoactive substances. They say that they pose a serious public health threat to the population, and therefore they need to be punished more strictly and for any activities related to them. In Hungary, it is possible to include them in the annex to the pharmaceutical law with other substances with similar effects, and therefore these are the Btk. they are considered drugs and are subject to this regulatory regime. The next area is the 2006 XCVII on professional chambers in healthcare. amendment of the law. Here's a word encapsulated, the word....will be added to our proposal. The reason why the law would be added is because the legislation currently in force does not provide for the need to send the final decision of the Health Care Professional Chambers to the body concerned. It is only after the alert has been alerted that the AEEC has been alerted, and therefore it is necessary to expect this from the bodies from which this alert can be triggered. These are our professional chambers operating in health care within the Hungarian legal framework. The next amendment to the Law is the 2018 LXX. Amendment of Act 61/1 at the 61st session of the United Nations Committee on Drugs, CND, held on 14 and 17 March 2018. in its decision, the substance carfentanil was added to the list of the single drug convention. [[15.30]] The amendment of the law is necessary in order to improve the administrative error and spelling of the law in the course of its transposition into the Hungarian legal order. Finally, the publication of the amendment to the Convention on Psychotropic Substances, which was published by Decree-Law No 25 of 1979, signed in Vienna on 21 February 1971, was published in LXXII of 2018. the amendment of the law. There was a typo in the law, an "i" in the letters C-H-M. This need to be improved by the appropriate molecule, which sounds like A-B-C-H-I-M-I-N-A-C-A. Mr President, Dear Parliament, These changes, in our view, serve the development of Hungarian health, which ensures the dynamic development of digital health, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, creates a suitable field for harmonisation in the European Union. To this end, I ask you to support the T/7847. Our bill No.3 supports the work that we use to protect and represent health of health and, above all, of Hungarian people. Thank you so much for listening. [[Nacha Lawrence applauds.]]
u2019-11-05-122	Thank you, Secretary of State Ildikó Horváth. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Gábor Sombor, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-11-05-123	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Usually, a health salad law, which was put forward at the end of the year, is not very exciting, since there are predominantly administrative transfers and harmonisation tasks. However, I would like to draw attention to what Mrs Secretary of State may have shown a little too modestly just by moving to digital health and improving it. As a person who worked on the site who provided data and who wanted to receive data and real data to make decisions based on them, I consider it extremely important that, after years of development, this IHSZ system or digital system, called the ESZT, was established and started to work. There has been a lot of misgivings about how this will work, what data can be provided, and how citizens can use it. It has to be said that despite all prior fear, it has started to work. As we can see now from this bill, it is giving more opportunities not only to service providers, to recipients of care, but also to those who are trying to make health care better, more organised and more effective. I encourage, on behalf of my faction, but I believe that, on behalf of everyone sitting here, the government is to expand and expand this system as rapidly and as widely as possible, because in order to achieve the expected and desired change that I think we all want in the whole country to have a truly well-functioning, modern, modern, efficient and financing healthcare system, it is based on the provision of real data by service providers, and who make decisions or make decisions, can plan capacities based on real data, organise care or even finance. It is very important that the present private service system also enters this electronic space. After all, a lot of parallel care and a lot of services that help or trigger each other can be seen from now on and can be decided on the basis of real data in the design of different capacities or in the organisation of care. I consider it very important that modern care systems, especially diagnostic systems, appear within the ESZT, if we now call them that, with this acronym, it is possible to upload older results or older medical history, but also that recipients can upload their own data to this system of tests, interventions that can then be considered as eligible at any point of supply and thus provide the care much more efficiently. This reflects and helps the direction that the government supports, as it has launched modern telemedical systems, and many people in this room probably don't know that, with the support of the government, a system is being developed among the general practitioners, especially in areas where conditions are very strict and general health care is difficult, with which many people's lives have already been saved, for example in the context of cardiac emergency care, where they cooperate with modern high-tech technology, the general physician and the most qualified clinical cardiologists in 0-24. So I urge the government that these are areas that can be developed by using the ESPT and by such support, because they save people's lives and lead us to a modern health care that, by the way, is now the way to be pursued throughout Europe or even in the world. I would add that now, I believe, every ten GPs have received such advanced communication tools and EKGs from the government. In any case, I think it is important to highlight that, as the IHSZ system expands, it is increasingly important that the relevant authorities and bodies better protect the data, because the risk of this is that the system operator can protect personal data and very sensitive personal data. After all, it is a very good thing that even a pharmacist can look at information about us, or that our data is included in the sickness register, that relatives can have access to certain data, or that the service providers can access almost everything. This assumes in any way that there is an extremely strong security system, and the data generated here cannot fall into unauthorized hands, which, unfortunately, there are examples abroad. It's more of a common need, I suppose. With regard to the harmonisation of EU directives and regulations, I believe that there will be no major debate because we need to implement it, it is mandatory. In this connection, of course, our group's position is also to ask my fellow Members to support the draft law and to support the extremely important strategic development direction contained in it, which could underpin a really big breakthrough in health care, to support its enlargement, and to help this work by all means. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[15.40]]
u2019-11-05-124	Thank you very much, Congressman Gábor Zombor. I now give the floor to Mr László György Lukács, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2019-11-05-125	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to bring the daily political and health policy issues here in this House, although I do not think they are often enough, but they are about other topics, interpellations, questions or even a debate day, if any. So in this case, I would like to limit myself to the presentation. Looking at the bill itself, we can see that this is a short-term change to an ESZT, the electronic health service space, because the legislation itself is not in the same place. In essence, almost all of its elements are designed to harmonise this with everyday life and with legislation. It is therefore important to state some facts or some comments about the healthcare provider's space. When the Episode was launched, Jobbik welcomed it and, moreover, our position has remained undisturbed: we consider it a very important and useful development in health care. In fact, when this was here, I recall that it was perhaps not Secretary of State Sombor, but his successor, who submitted or represented the portfolio post as a national, but we also said that it should have been realized for some time, keeping pace with the digitalization of health care or technological progress, but recently we have seen that something has begun to accelerate around the ESP. One of the signs of this is that what is in the legislation, in the current amendment, is that it contains not only data from November 2017 or data from it, but also a data sniffing back to 2012, where the system will otherwise be able to collect these data. This is particularly important because, although we often underestimate the importance of data, data in health care, as in other areas, is indeed gold, which is the gold of the modern age. This is particularly important when we are judging a public health goal or a programme that affects the health status of Hungarian people or any future health condition, so that we can build it from the right data, be properly modeled and find the best possible solution for the profession and then health policy. So it is clear that we need these data more. What we have always drawn attention to, and I think there is always room for improvement, and there is always room for improvement, is the issue of data security. There have been a number of concerns in the past. In essence, life has shown that there has been often unnecessary or excessive concern about data processing or data security, but I think it is very important in this area to have a constant vigilance, so a wake-up call, a attention to whether they are in a safe place, in safe hands, and that in some cases not only the state of health, but also the right data from the private sector, do not distort the existing data structure. After all, our goal is to be as precise as possible, so to say, to get a pinpoint picture of what health policy should intervene in. So I would strongly suggest that what needs to be improved or improved will be a matter of data security. Here, in relation to data management and control powers, the missing powers of the ÁEEC will now be replaced by the control of the legislation, i.e. an after-control or the proper use of the ESTE. I suggest that we go in that direction, and perhaps not through the ÁEEC, but through someone else, that data security and the authenticity of the data, its integrity, so that this can be put correctly, we can achieve this. I believe that this should be done by an external organisation, whether a public body, or by delegation to an existing agency that provides these very sensitive data, because we all know that our personal health and health status so far may be the most trusted personal data, so their safety is extremely important. Because of the analysis and future decisions, the integrity of these data is very important. We therefore propose that progress be made in this area, as it is important that health policy and health benefit from it in the future and that, on the other hand, the vulnerability of data may not be a threat. We will support this proposal, because it is very important that the right to represent the replacement of recipes is resolved. When the whole e-recept and related regulation was introduced, it was a general idea that those who were prevented or unable to use it personally would be able to replace it or through their proxy or family member to resolve it. Although this is now a very bureaucratic way of directing, as we are now, and it is a very narrow circle, it is a step in some direction, and perhaps the practice or the practice from it will make sure that the e-recepts are more smoothly exchanged and the recipes replaced. It is also important that the legislation provides a basis for providing services in a non-publicly funded system, which is a public-funded service order, but here it is also a service order that can be monitored and an electronically regulated way of ordering a service. This is also an ESTE fine-tuning, which is rightfully raised and settled. I wish, overall, and perhaps this is the main thesis that this is a very useful novel change, directing very important things. I suggest that a similar fine-tuning be done as often as possible in relation to the ESZ, because I think that all health policy politicians, but professionals, doctors, GPs and even patients working in health care, need to be able to fill the ESZ as best they can, which, on the one hand, has made everyone very reluctant, but will be an extremely fast and efficient method of administration and a relatively safe system. The criticisms about this, which will be addressed in written questions or in any other oral questions relating to the ESPT. I don't think I'm selling a bag cat by basically supporting the amendments proposed in the legislation, the bill, by Jobbik. It is very useful to make the ESZT amendments, and we are asking and encouraging the Government to keep them on the agenda not only every six months or half a legislative cycle or half a session, but also to put this on their agenda as soon as possible so that it can be transposed as quickly and as often as possible what the profession requires and what the ESZ does not yet contain or is not yet suitable for. I think on this path, there could only be a real XXI. Creating health in the first century beyond the challenges that always arise in the general political formulation, but there is at least one common denominator in this, and I think that progress on this path is going in the right direction, but it needs to increase its pace. I wish you good work on this. I believe that we will support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-05-126	Thank you, Congressman Luke. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2019-11-05-127	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I too will increase the number of people who praise and welcome this bill that lies before us. To the details that Madam Secretary has already told us in this House and what we have read in the bill, I would not comment on them now. In general, I would like to say that this bill and its provisions are obviously specific to the amendments and novelties that have been expected for a very long time and are very important innovations and amendments. I think you can count on it here in Parliament, as I see it, from opposition benches, but also from pro-government parties, clearly, that any future innovation, amendment, development, enlargement will always find supportive ears and supporting votes in Parliament. I think this is a very important joint responsibility and task, so obviously we can only encourage the health government to continue on this path and to do so together, what is needed here. After all, digitalisation progress, data management and even a medical history are very important, who has an elderly or sick relative, you know, that legal mandate and the setting up of legal representation in the electronic system are a priority area that I think is about simplifying our lives and our relationship with health, easier administration and greater transparency in our lives. I would like to add that we have just spoken to my fellow Member, and before that I have written this down to myself, that this entails a greater civic responsibility. [[15.50]] Now we can't say that we didn't know what it was about, that we didn't see the end result, that we didn't see certain medical records. This is where I consider it very important to link the provision of private services, because so far we have seen many anomalies in the system that there have been dark spots in the history of a patient, because private operators have not provided these data, so we may not have a complete picture of how and how it happened. I consider it very important that the data will be uploaded back into the event catalogue by 1 November 2012. I think it is very important that pharmacists also have access to these data and can set up an accurate event description, model themselves what has happened. This is also important because many times citizens and perhaps we too have a responsibility, in a pharmacy, a pharmacist may be viewed as a shop salesman, and this is not the case at all. That is why it is important that such a relationship be established between the patient and the pharmacist or I can confirm this from the user's side and the pharmacist's side, it is very important that such a relationship is established and thus the data is visible. What my fellow Member has already said is obviously very important here, data protection guarantees. This should always be given special attention, and I think this is the case, and this is a good thing, because we are talking about sensitive data that will have to be handled with the utmost care and security in the coming period. Update is a very important goal, since such a system and this further development make sense if keeping the ESTE up-to-date is the primary task of operators and obviously of reporting agents as well. It is a very important element to have the communication between the Treasury and the ESZT system that if, let's say, a farm number becomes invalid due to death, it should be immediately recorded and able to act, for example, do not hinder health care by means of invalid vouchers, recipes and other stories that will only slow the system down again. I think it's a very good direction. In the last few years, I've seen it just as long as I've had access to the blood test with my client gate ID, so I thought, finally! Maybe that's what I've been thinking about with that slang, I think it's a very good direction, and even a recipe story. I think that this path must go further in order to pay attention to thinking. In this, the health government and we politicians also have a responsibility to strengthen the civic responsibility and citizen awareness of the Hungarian people in this topic, showing them what opportunities are available, but what responsibility this entails, as those who use the service of this system. I think you can support this bill with a good heart. I wish for ourselves that I wish not only for the decision-makers of Parliament, but also for the Hungarian people, that as many of these proposals will come before us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-05-128	Thank you, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Molnár, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2019-11-05-129	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I will not abuse the situation that we are discussing a health issue in Parliament, and I can tell you a long time how much more is worth regulating, how much is there in health care that calls for an immediate and urgent solution. I too will be exemplary brief, and I am in an easy position, because I could almost say that I agree with what was said there, I agree with that, so I would just like to say these terms from points one, two, three. However, I would like to highlight and confirm some things myself. It's been a long, long time since I've thought about the fact that there are some really amazingly simple things in life, and for some reason, they're not doing it, and now I'm sorry I'm using a stupid word like that. When a person is such a practitioner, say, in a small unit at a local government, I always wondered how there is a general practitioner, there is an outpatient care, there is a hospital, there we are together, sometimes a few hundred meters from each other, and we do the same things in parallel, spend the money, operate and maintain non-communicative systems. I always thought about it, and I tried to make a breakthrough in this otherwise very simple case as a leader, and I saw that it was a very monolithic and closed profession, very proud, obviously very protective of its own internal relations, so I was virtually powerless in these matters. It was a huge breakthrough, if, say, at least sometimes you call the GP, outpatient care could use it. I'll tell you one more time, they both had the same maintenance. So, in a specific and funny way, they got the support and the money from exactly the same place. Well, that's why I think it's a huge step towards which we've gone with this ESTE. I think that all kinds of refinement of this, as my better colleague has said, is right, important and good. I would like to confirm one thing myself, the issue of data protection. We're awfully sensitive about this. Obviously, everyone's very, very scared. On October 1, there was a hacker attack at the National Institute of Pharmacy and Food Health, sensitive data was avoided. Obviously, we know exactly that XXI. This is what the century is about, that those who commit crimes, who do not serve the right purpose, are always a little bit ahead of those who try to prevent it, but let's do what we can. One thing my colleagues have noticed, and I would like to draw the attention of the Secretary of State. My colleagues say that in the case of rare diseases, this regulation is the information law 5. § 2 may conflict. So this is too general a wording for this possibility. In some respects, it may be worth clarifying the text in this law, or in some way adding a reference to the info law. I would also like to mention what I also think is a sensitive subject, the possibility of this type of transfer from public funding to private financing. If you allow so many political sentences here late at night, then that is in a way [[Interviews from Fidesz and KDNP: Is it late at night?]] admit that through the public funding system, certain things are no longer known or perhaps not intended to be provided. So they create the possibility of transferring some of the patients to the private sector, where appropriate. I would always be afraid of this as a pro-government politician if, in this way, we created such a legal channel from the public sector in this area of the private sector. This always raises, where appropriate, questions that can be delicate and embarrassing. But once again, I understand the logic of this, I understand the technological part of this, obviously we support it in some ways. Summa summarum, I would like to say to you that, by joining the wise sentences that my fellow Members have spoken before me, and also the less wise sentences, but, of course, they were wise sentences, and I would also like to assure the House that unless something has been put into the law, we are also preparing to support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-05-130	Thank you, Congressman Gyula Molnár. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2019-11-05-131	Thank you very much for the floor. We had really good comments on the previous ones. We can agree with almost everyone, because it is a fact that this kind of development, which is served by extending the ESPT, is certainly beneficial and important to us. Everyone meets a health institution during their lifetime, so it really affects everyone. I think that, as the speakers before me have already said, data protection is extremely important. That's what we all say. We are all concerned because it would not be good for anyone to have unauthorized hands over what diseases we are dealing with or what medications we are taking and what other medicines we are taking. Otherwise, we oppositions generally don't like salad laws that much, because they often contain a lot of things that don't even fit together. This is a saving exception, because if I count correctly, it contains ten amendments to the law, but most of it deals with health, and I think it's the only water that might be a little bit out of it. By the way, what Madam Secretary said is very important: 250,000 cases a day, 800,000 recipes and 40,000 workers. These are very, very big numbers. [[16.00]] When you think about how this will certainly make the work and the process itself easier, it is definitely a good thing. I think that I would also like to see proposals because I would not be oppositional if I did not say something else, such as strengthening the practice communities, which include even rethinking the practice funding, because we also hear feedback from general practitioners. That is why we know that, let's say, in health care, these could also be improved. And, of course, hospitals are eternally chewed bones, but there may also be a need to look at the fitness of managers sometimes to see whether the debt pile is solely the result of poor funding or perhaps poor management. It is very important that no one has said much about water but that, although this is not the specific content of the law, we consider it important to protect the drinking water base, because one of the most important tasks of the government is to provide healthy drinking water for everyone, and we know that the water utility system is outdated and that waterworks are in very big trouble. These are certainly professional feedback, since the imposed utility tax and other not-so-positive processes will make drinking water more difficult, as thousands of billions of forints may be missing from the system and no one can see underground, we do not know the condition of the wires, but it is certainly talkative that there are more frequent failures, there is confusion of drinking water in many places, and so on, I do not want to add to this. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] I think we would also welcome such salad laws in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2019-11-05-132	Thank you, Congresswoman, and welcome to this House. I would like to ask if someone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see a candidate. So I give the floor to Secretary of State Ildikó Horváth.
u2019-11-05-133	Thank you very much for the floor. Thank you very much for your contributions to the Members and to the Congresswoman. I am very pleased with this wide-ranging support that has an impact on the digitisation of the ESP and health care. It is a great help, it is a great support for us, and I will rely on the proposals, the good advice that has been given. Let me acknowledge here that Secretary of State Sombor, then Secretary of State Ónodi, so we have more than one stage in this development. It is a very important thing that, since this will be a multi-annual, decades-long development, there should always be a cooperation and a force behind it that will drive it forward and demand the new one and the new one. We are now at a stage in which this consolidation can operate a large volume. This happened. There is a technical opportunity for the next big step, which is what all private operators are now connecting to. And in this, we have two very serious drives, one further increase in patient safety. They said in several ways that the removal of these black spots, the fact that we see or do not see the supply event in patient care, is critical, and that the transparent operation that happens in relation to the care of a particular patient and what happens in private care, and that, in the event of real events in public care, the next supplier should have an insight into it, we confirm that. Indeed, data security is highlighted in the ESPT. It's a system of health care that's on level five security. The government net, the system of the government spine, provides the highest degree of IT protection, which has so far been a flawless guarantee that it could not be broken into, could not be hacked; it provided and had no such attackability. At OGYÉI, what was mentioned here, there was an attack. The benevolent hacker, as he called you, drew attention to the sensitivity, vulnerability of a subsystem that was corrected. It's important, we learned from it. We've had all our other electronic systems tested, and we're trying to ensure that all of these levels of protection are protected. Data security is also important as to who can see and who can access the data. That is why we considered it to be very precise to regulate the patient's power of attorney as to the scope and the type of authorisation system for those who give him, for example, an e-prescription. And that's why every time you look at a patient's data, it's recorded in the system, it can be traced back at any time. So we know exactly who's looking at any of our data, and whether he's actually going to end up doing it because we expect him to do so because of the supply activity, which helps us. At the present level of development of the system, it also helps to eliminate abuses. I was able to catch gangs using drugs to put it this way. You could catch a pharmacy or two where there was an unreasonably high supply of mainly narcotic painkillers. It was possible to catch up with these events. And one more thing happened: they really control this people, they really look at it. I encourage everyone here to look at their own data. They were spotted, we received reports, and there were investigations, measures in cases where the patient had indicated that he or she had not received or had been informed of such care. So it provides an opportunity for civilian control, which, I think, is expected in any sector, and an important part of the system's services being properly cleaned. And in the direction of telemedicine, I would like to thank Mr Sombor, Secretary of State, for mentioning, yes, that we would like to move forward and go forward with a decisive step. I am also very grateful to Mr Luke because he said good-bye that he could not stay any longer and he could not hear the answer, that he pointed out that he would support this proposal, and that he encouraged this in connection with the e-recept replacement, and that we should make amendments to the ESP as soon as possible. We will be happy to do it, and we will work for it, because this is indeed a bureaucratic, very strict measure of legal certainty, but we are working to test the system that Czechs use in pilots, which is a very simple thing. As a phone message, a QR code arrives as a text message, and this QR code is capable of being replaced by the first trigger. The patient can give you any phone number, so you can actually give someone your phone number with your own permission. This can be transmitted, but it will be inactivated at the first release. The system is simple, but we have now calculated that if we assume that we are based on the current text charges that are in the civil sphere, and we only count 34 forints or some forints, and we say that in one day 800,000 recipes will be replaced, then it will be multiplied by each of us at the moment, what volume of charge is financially, very remotely viewed. For any actor, the state, the supply unit, the patient, wherever I put it, it's a huge cost. So it is quite certain that we need to work and think about how to do this in a cost-effective way, cheaply and as best as possible. At the moment, we are looking at Internet solutions, e-mail communications, because it is free where we have the Internet connection, but this would be a more technically eligible and feasible option for the use and use of the e-recept. I really hope we can come with him next semester. To Congressman Nacsa, let me respond to this access to the customer gate, that this creates great joy and a sense of view. Indeed, we do see it, and I think it is very important that this kind of approach, responsibility for our own health, the need to check our own data is well served by the system, so that it can easily be operated and done online at any time. We must say, however, that the Hungarian system started relatively late for the ESZT, but we are now in the top European list, who provide a uniform system at national level for the population of the whole country, which is highly protected and provides such a level. So we are trying to move forward in this, and we are trying to use the situation that if we can be at the forefront of something, we should not only be at the top of the European ranking of vaccinations, but also, let us say, get there or stay there. Mr Molnár mentioned it, and I thank you very much for the wording that it is difficult to implement it in a municipality, in a settlement, in a place of residence. We can see it, we can live it. I consider the ESTE to be a very important technical assistance. We also work with the three generations in our health programme by offline methods, by providing resources to strengthen cooperation between people and institutions, to have an active dialogue between the primary supplier and the outpatient provider, to work together for the benefit of the patient, to reduce cardiovascular death and to ensure well-defined health values. You're bound to do that. This involves health development offices; work with the local government and involve professionals such as physiotherapists, psychologists, medical educators. You're free to choose who wants everyone involved. Let me tell you that this is really creative for the partners that have already started, they have started working together effectively, and now they are enjoying this work together. So I really hope so, and we're working on strengthening these. The second phase of this proposal has been announced, and this mobilizing force, which you have mentioned, must be carried out jointly and in cooperation, so that the patient's interests can be served as well as possible. [[16.10]] I know that yesterday was a topic here in Parliament, and Mrs Zita Gurmai raised the question of how you understand this right to claim services between public-funded and private-funded care. I've been thinking about this for a long time, we've been talking to the NEAK, I've been talking to the AEC about what's going on. It is important to know that the ESZT is a technical option, at the moment it is a referral and a purchase of services, so the private cannot ask the public to do so, so there is a barricade. There's no official hard barricade in the law set up for the public to ask for it. So if there is a need to make it clear that this was not an objective... this technical tool was intended primarily within the private sector, also to offer the connecting private service providers the possibility that it was technically possible for the e-transferor, so they could send patients to each other. It was not a goal, we do not represent it, and we are even very opposed to the arrival of orders from private operators starting from public-funded care. However, I think it is very important that we strive for transparency. Sometimes there are public announcements, and sometimes there are complaints from healthcare providers to each other to put it this way, and we know that there is an abuse of the system that we are operating now, and it happens that a colleague working in public-funded care is referring his patient to his private order, so to speak, and there is an order that we believe is not in the patient's interest and that it is not good for us as people in the Hungarian nation, the interests of people living in the Hungarian state. I hope that this technical opportunity will highlight that if this happens, we will see that the same person, the individual patient, will appear one day in public-funded care and the next day in private-funded care and what and why. I very much hope that this transparency, this patient tour, will help to ensure that such abuses can emerge as accurately and precisely as possible. Let me give you an example. The NEAK started to lead the waiting list, and the first time they started to drive, seeing the numbers, causing horror, causing reconnaissance, there were many counter-arguments, but it was not yet clear that the process that took place within a few years of its creation served beautifully in order to clean up the system, shorten the waiting lists, and eliminate abuse to a very good degree. I expect this expansion of the ESZT and this use of technology, electronics, will serve this excellently. And we may be looking at the legislative need to create this barricade that is built in one direction. So thank you very much, and that's how I understood your contribution, and indeed the kind of political debate about who wants to make what, how to make it pay, I wouldn't think to open it here either. Finally, on behalf of LMP, let me thank Krisztina Hohn for dealing with water and healthy water. Indeed, water is very strongly bound by healthy life and drinking water to our fields, in the area we represent for official activity, so it is important for us that there is a good time for these authorities, the experts behind them to carry out the tests, because what we release from the tap and drink in the belief that this is a good quality drinking water is critical. We are in a better position in Hungary than many other countries are in Europe as well as in relation to the quality of drinking water. What you mentioned, obviously, does not belong to our wallet, where the utilities need to be developed again and again. Let me tell you this: for example, we know that when the lead-related contamination occurred, the state did so for utilities and the utility companies did the conversion obligations and replaced the pipes. Where I see a difficult situation, so there is a problem, and there is much to talk about, it is the way water gets to people from the water meter. These own plumbing in the family house may be 50 meters, perhaps laid down in 1965, pipes in which there may still be lead, and it may be a condominium where decisions have been made that do not favour health, but do not exchange pipes representing some other values. So at the moment, we estimate that the major problem is not in the activities provided by the public, or is not in areas that are relatively simply regulated by the public, but in the private sector, where we believe that the transfer of information is extremely important. I thank you for all your help in this direction to discuss this publicly, because this is a necessary part of this work. I also thank you for listing the three things that we consider to be of great importance. We want to strengthen basic supply, basic supply cooperation. Indeed, we are working to create a generalised legal environment with three generations for health, after the different programmes, that will really bring the practice communities to life at system level and at system level. Prax funding, especially the adjustment there, is very important to me in increasing the kind that depends on performance, so how well it serves the interests of people, and we do have a lot of feedback from general practitioners who are willing and able to be partners in this. I really agree with you that the first local people responsible for inpatient care, our hospitals are the directors-general of hospitals, they have the legal authority to manage in accordance with the law and to carry out their duties accordingly. So I see it as an unavoidable question to deal with this area, so thank you very much for your contribution. Thank you very much, Mr President, that is what I wanted to sum up my reflections.
u2019-11-05-134	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. The general debate is closed. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the bill to amend certain energy laws for harmonisation purposes until closure. The government referral is T/7846. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Kaderjak, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda.
u2019-11-05-135	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill before you concerns ten laws on energy, namely mining, district heating, gas security stockpiling, the implementation framework of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol, electricity, gas supply, promotion of renewable energy for transport and reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from energy used in transport, security stockpiling of imported petroleum and petroleum products, the laws on single supply accounts and energy efficiency, and the Waste Act. The amendments under the bill are essentially justified by the need for a total of 12 national transpositions and matching of the various EU acts adopted in the last two years, as well as by the limited experience of national law enforcement authorities, as well as by the changes and measures taken in the energy sector. Allow me to briefly summarise the key elements of the bill for each area of expertise. The short amendment to the Mining Act is intended solely for the purposes of harmonisation of laws, as set out in Article 3 (3) of Regulation (EC) No 2018/1999. The frequency of a reporting obligation is changed in order to comply with Union Regulation No 1. The district heating law is affected by some minor amendments, which do not serve harmonisation purposes, but are aimed at clarifying the application of domestic law. Among these, the clarification of the licensing regime should be highlighted, which clarifies the authorisation procedures in order to ensure that district heating capacity supplying the consumer is always available. [[16.20]] A minor amendment to the Gas Security Stockpiling Act is essentially intended to harmonise legislation, with the aim of 2017/1938. It is necessary to ensure compliance with EU Regulation No 1. These amendments essentially include the technical transfer of EU terminology to the domestic legislation on the release of the natural gas security stock and clarify the objectives and frameworks for the use of the security stock. The technical amendments to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol implementing framework aim to establish a legislative framework for public cooperation between the National Climate Protection Authority and the National Tax and Customs Office. Here in Europe, there is a 30 thousand tonnes of illegal coolant trade a year, and cooperation between the Authority and the National Tax and Customs Office will be carried out to filter out and control this illegal coolant trade, if you will vote in favour of the legislative change. The amendments to the Electricity Act are also essentially for legal harmonisation purposes and are mainly of a technical nature. On the one hand, the year 2018/1504. These are necessary in order to comply with EU Regulation No 1 and the so-called "Clean Energy" package electricity regulations. In addition to the amendments for harmonisation purposes, the draft legislative authorisation requirements for the installation of the electricity meter will also be laid down, since the government's aim is to allow the use of this innovative technology, which is beneficial to consumers, in places of use where it can be realised as a return on the electricity system, in particular for consumers with higher consumption and for non-resident consumers. The mid-term amendment to the Gas Supply Act is mainly referred to as 2017/1938. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). The aim of the Regulation is to ensure that all Member States take appropriate and coordinated measures in the event of a gas supply crisis that may result from disruption of supply or exceptionally high gas demand. EU terminology separates three levels of crisis. Of these, the first so-called early warning level means that, on the basis of certain information, it can be assumed that a future security of supply event may occur. In the case of the second so-called alert level, there is a real disturbance, but the natural gas market is still able to manage it independently. The third, so-called crisis level, means that supply can only be provided through non-market-based measures, such as the release of the natural gas security stock. I will, of course, reassure everyone at this point that we do not have to expect such a situation in Hungary, because the storage facilities are fully charged, we are fully prepared for the current heating season. In order to ensure that the supply is not compromised, the government increased the level of gas security to approximately 20 percent to 1.45 billion cubic metres this spring. The remaining figure is about 4.87 billion cubic metres of commercial stock. The draft law also proposes further minor amendments to the law on natural gas, on the one hand for harmonisation and on the other, based on the experience of law enforcement over the past period. The reason behind the amendment of the law on promoting the use of renewable energy for transport and reducing greenhouse gas emissions from energy used in transport is that the government will significantly increase the mandatory biofuel incorporation share of fuel distributors from 1 January 2020. This was necessary, on the one hand, because of the European Union's provisions on renewable energy use and, on the other hand, because of the protection of domestic agriculture and the promotion of Hungary's energy independence. In addition to increasing the share, it is also appropriate to establish a basis for monitoring compliance with the biofuel share in order to eliminate the potential competitive disadvantage of compliant distributors and to achieve national targets. Under the legislative amendment, it is also necessary to lay down an authorisation clause which provides for verification of compliance with the biofuel share ratio. In addition to the incorporation of biofuels, fuel distributors should also implement a mandatory greenhouse gas emission reduction of 6 per cent for 2020. compared to the baseline set out in the EU Directive. In order to avoid a competitive disadvantage for law-abiding fuel distributors for administrative reasons, it is appropriate, on the one hand, to provide them with sufficient time to draw up a report on the greenhouse gas life cycle for the year in question. Accordingly, the deadline for reporting will be 31 August instead of 31 March. On the other hand, taking into account the market and technological constraints available to fuel distributors, an incentive, degressive default sanction would be introduced, the revenues of which could be used exclusively by the government for transport greening purposes. In addition to this, the amendment to the law is set out in 2018/1504. It also includes technical amendments necessary to comply with Union Regulation No 1. The calculation methodology set out in the Security Stockpiling Act for imported petroleum and petroleum products requires a minor modification of 2018/1581. Transposition of EU Directive No 1. In addition, given the development of the market, in line with the relevant EU framework, the amendment provides an opportunity to stock kerosene as a petroleum product in the future. The short amendment of the Single Public Service Account Picture Act meets the domestic regulatory need. The so-called coal restructuring aid, previously used in electricity price regulation, was separately managed from the system of regulatory price regulation as of 1 January 2019. This fee element was previously included in the accounts of non-resident electricity users as a separate charge but, in accordance with the discharge, it is also necessary to amend the requirement to include the fee item in the invoice after a one-year transitional period for the correction accounts. The reason behind the amendment of the Energy Efficiency Act is that Article 8.2.2 of the Energy Efficiency Act does not apply. Each Member State should achieve a final energy savings of one and a half per cent per year for end-users under the EU Directive No 1. This is consistent with the objectives of the forthcoming national energy strategy. A number of measures have already been put in place to fulfil the obligation. Thanks to the government's actions, the National Energy Network supports the energy efficiency of public institutions, municipalities and businesses with free energy advice, as well as the efforts of the public to reduce energy consumption. Improving the energy efficiency of public institutions and the conscious, cost-effective use of buildings are our priority objectives, given that public buildings can be used as a model and as a form of approach. In large energy companies, we have provided for the use of energy specialists in order to improve energy efficiency, reduce energy intensity of industrial activity, i.e. to produce a unit of products with less energy. [[16.30]] Under the Energy Efficiency Act, large companies are obliged to carry out energy audits every four years, for which they are required to register regularly annually and at the same time to pay registration fees to the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office. The amendment proposed in this bill removes the obligation to pay annual fees due to the annual registration obligation of large companies. In the event of the adoption of the bill, as from 1 January 2021, the obligation to pay a fee for large companies will apply only at the time of the first registration. In addition, the further amendment of the bill to the amendment of the Energy Efficiency Act is set out in section 2019/826. It also serves the implementation of EU Regulation No 1. Dear Parliament, T/7846. The main part of the amendments under the proposed legislation is therefore harmonisation with EU law, including, in principle, compliance with directly applicable EU legislation, and of a crucial technical nature. Most of the regulations do not directly affect the everyday life of Hungarian consumers, but their acceptance is essential for the continued functioning of the Hungarian energy system in order to ensure that Hungarian consumers continue to benefit from clean, smart, affordable energy services, in addition to the current security of supply. I would like to point out, in particular, that as a result of the adoption of the amendments, there are areas that will have a positive direct impact on consumer welfare. On the one hand, in the electricity sector, we support the expansion of electronic contact between licensees and consumers, so that in the next period hundreds of thousands of users will be able to exchange previous measuring equipment for smart meters, i.e. continue the digitalisation process in the electricity sector. Secondly, by amending the Energy Efficiency Act, the administrative and financial burden of large companies subject to energy audits will also be reduced. In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament that T/7846 on the amendment of certain energy laws for harmonisation purposes. Please support bill number 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-11-05-136	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mihály Witzmann, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-11-05-137	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As we have heard in the State Secretary's Expo, T/7846 on the amendment of certain energy laws before us for harmonisation purposes. In fact, from an EU point of view, the legislative proposal for amendments to the energy sector regulations serves to transpose and align 11 pieces of EU legislation on energy and waste regulation in Hungary, which are listed in detail by the Secretary of State at the beginning of the Expo, which I would not like to waste your patience and your time. Overall, it can be said that the adoption of the bill requires, in fact, today's debate and the subsequent vote for legal harmonisation purposes. In view of the changes in the energy sector and the measures taken, it is necessary to do so. The bill concerns, among other things, the 1993 XLVIII on mining. a law amending it to comply with Regulation (EC) No 2018/1999 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 18th of 2005 on district heating Some minor amendments to the Act have become necessary in the light of the experience of the past period in the application of the law. Among these, the clarification of the licensing rules should be highlighted, which will clarify the authorisation procedures in order to ensure that the production capacity supplying the consumer is available. On the other hand, the draft also allows the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office to withdraw the permit in cases where the producer does not provide its own gas supply, but misuses the security of supply measures provided by natural gas regulation. The bill also contains amendments to the laws on gas supply, gas security stockpiling, electricity, the use of renewable energy for public purposes, and energy efficiency, which contain technical clarifications, in particular to ensure consistency with the European Parliament and Council Regulation and directives. Dear House, Since we are talking about an energy law, I think it is essential to mention it, and we can make a joyful announcement when we can say that we have probably never had the energy supply of Hungary, our country, as at present, because perhaps for the first time in history, we can say that the gas reservoirs in Hungary are fully operating at maximum capacity, and we have managed to recharge them completely. In fact, the country's gas supply will be ensured by 2020 and for the winter months ahead. Currently 6.4 billion cubic metres of gas is stored, which means that winter has not actually started this year, but the supply of winter season next year is already in a significantly advanced state. This also provides long-term predictability and security of gas supply in Hungary. It is also important to point out that in the electricity sector, the government also wants to support the expansion of electronic contacts between licensees and consumers. Here, in fact, it is a truly innovative one, and I think that it is a 21st century. There is an attitude that is tailored to the needs of the century. On the basis of government plans, following the entry into force of the detailed rules to be laid down at the level of a government regulation under the mandate of the bill on smart meter equipment, hundreds of thousands of users will be able to replace their previous measuring equipment with so-called smart meters in the next period. This is also welcome, because I can say from my own experience that there has been a strong demand for such proposals in the past period, including in my office and in my reception hours, this kind of demand has been raised several times, whether by the owners of condominiums or private houses, by the people of the Somogy 4 constituency. Indeed, a modern technology can be implemented in the future, and it can also create conditions for accurate measurement in any way. Dear Parliament, Since 2010, the government has done its utmost to ensure that Hungary's energy supply is ensured and that energy sources can be used under favourable conditions for the general public. Here, I would also like to highlight the 'Home Gay' programme, which has already provided more than 310 thousand families with non-refundable public support, which has made it possible to modernise households' energy. With the support provided over the past five years, Hungarian families have been able to replace their household machines, boilers, heating rooms, apartments, house windows and sources of insulation for condos, as well as for private property. By the way, developments have achieved household energy savings of around 300 million kilowatt hours per year, corresponding to the annual electricity consumption of 100,000 households. So we can also be happy to say that the programme meant more than HUF 10 billion a year in rent reductions for Hungarian citizens, the Hungarian population. Ladies and gentlemen, The need for national transposition and alignment of various EU legislations that have been adopted over the past period justifies amendments to the energy legislation contained in the bill and to the waste law. The adoption of these standards is essential for the continued operation of the regulatory system ensuring energy supply in Hungary. In the light of what has been said, I respectfully ask my fellow Members to support the proposed legislation, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you so much for listening. [[László Böröcz applauds.]] [[16.40]]
u2019-11-05-138	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Zoltán Balczó, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2019-11-05-139	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, I would have started by listing some of the laws in this package of laws, by number ten, to show that it is a fairly broad package, but Secretary of State Kaderjak did so, so I would just like to point out that, in addition to the Mining Act, for example, there is a single bill of account for public services. All of this in 87 stages. I just wanted to make it clear that a coherent, united opinion on this is difficult. Perhaps, of course, they are all linked to energy policy, in which case the situation is much better than between 98 and 2002, when there was a simultaneous final vote on AC fisheries and nanny-mothership. Here, there is a link between the individual laws, professionally and in substance. There has been so much talk about EU harmonisation, that I might add that you obviously know this, but it does not hurt to repeat what it is then. So we are taking over directives and regulations, and they often think that the directives are voluntary. No, the directive is also mandatory, but in this case it is possible to introduce a particular national specificity into the law, but it is mandatory to fulfil the main objective of the directive. The regulation is even clearer: when an EU regulation becomes effective, 20 days after its publication, when it is published in the bulletin, it becomes mandatory in each Member State, it is said by lawyers to enter the legal order. So I must say that we do not have such a large playing field on this issue. I would like to make a separate point in two areas, so that there is a substance to my comment. One is that Member State governments should review the climate change strategy every five years from its adoption, and a national energy and climate change strategy is appropriate. This should be managed together. Let me mention that the national energy strategy was adopted in 2012 in this Parliament. I think it would be time to renew it and also to create and renew the climate change strategy. I consider it important that this is a requirement for all Member States, as it ensures that the national commitments set out in the Paris Agreement are ultimately fulfilled by the Member States, so this is an important part of this. I would like to talk about the five regulations and three directives in this bill on the Energy Union. I know that these are only partially inserted now, partly done or will be. The reason why I dare to deviate from this is because Mr Mihály Witzmann has obviously allowed himself to say words of praise about the reduction of the rent. And let me talk about the very important EU regulations that I participated in the debate and vote on, highlighting one part of it. The EU regulation, which we refer to here, established the European Union Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators and the regional coordination centres coordinating the work of system managers, the Hungarian Transmission System Manager for Electricity, MAVIR, the relevant EU bodies. Well, the debate and sharp debate in the European Parliament at the time were about the issues of responsibility, because these regional centres can also take coordinated measures in addition to recommendations. Several countries, then I am talking about the stage of parliamentary debate, they considered it to be a violation of the principle of subsidiarity, and this is indeed true, because if energy policy is a national competence within the meaning of the Treaties, then, for example, the question of how we stand with the mechanisms of action, how a country considers what available power plant capacity is needed in the future, this is indeed a very close part of the national strategy. So we can't hand this over to a regional center for a decision. At present, 32 percent of Hungarian energy imports are imported, so they cannot say that a country in the enlarged European Union, if it develops with a lower capacity, should obtain the energy it needs at the appropriate cross-border capacities. I only wanted to draw attention to this because here, too, the test of pudding is eating, and I think it is very important that Hungary is able to preserve its sovereign right to determine these capacities for its own energy security. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-11-05-140	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Andras Aradski, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2019-11-05-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The legislative package before us, as has been said several times, consists of 11 amendments to the legislation on energy and 1 piece of waste regulation, which basically addresses the legal history of the EU. In this regard, the outsider, but perhaps also the one who is superficial in dealing with energy laws and energy regulations, may well ask why the government comes in every six months with a proposal for a salad law and puts it here instead of using a comprehensive codification solution, so that it might be possible to better achieve consistency between legislation. This is a sound argument, and you can say it calmly by an opposition representative, but I was pleased to hear from the opposition Member before me that he too sees and feels these reasons, because a proposal for harmonisation is coming in every six months, and there are reasons, explanations and reasons for it. In particular, the fact that, in the past period, from 2014 onwards, when the European Commission published conclusions on the European Energy Union, the European scene of energy regulation and, through it, national regulations, national energy policies, practices, energy production and distribution, could be said if it were not a little steep that it had undergone revolutionary changes. The aim was to strengthen energy security in Europe, and its task and reason was that security of supply was best represented by the extension of the energy market at EU level. In this context, a number of package of proposals have come together which set out this objective in legislation or in other strategic ideas. For example, the "Clean energy" for everyone! The programme, which I believe was adopted by the European Council on 30 November 2016, and I certainly remember because I was there. This was also about how, in line with climate policy expectations, the Paris climate agreement, the way and at what level the European Union is able to achieve uniform, but also to increase, if not mandatory, the share of energy efficiency improvements identified as guidelines, a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and an increase in the capacity of renewable energy sources. [[16.50]] So these measures, conclusions and package of proposals have not been legislation on their own, which was subsequently adopted on the basis of the Commission's and Parliament's cooperation with different implementation deadlines. This is the fundamental reason why we meet with such regulation every six months, such a need for regulation. I must add that the Hungarian Parliament, the Hungarian Government, has not been significantly delayed with these regulations, and it should be said that it has not been delayed, but has always created the objectives of harmonisation on time and at an appropriate level. After this introduction, I would like to stress that I would like to highlight the amendment on the supply of gas from the package of laws tabled to us. This amendment to the supply of natural gas stems from the directive which was the title of the package of measures to safeguard the security of gas supply in the European Union, which has put the security of gas supply on a completely new footing. This is also important for the European Union because more than 50 percent of natural gas is sourced from imports from the European Union, but there are also countries, such as Hungary, which obtain 80 percent from imports, and almost 100 percent of this 80 percent, but nearly 90 percent from one source, and this is Russian imports. In this situation, it was obviously necessary to increase the level of solidarity, taking into account the objective of a single European gas market, and to find ways of applying broader, more predictable and more uniform scenarios to Member States in the event that gas supply and, in particular, of countries that are more exposed to such an import dependency, and that the region which was exposed to a very serious threat in 2009 when gas supplies were suspended due to the Russian-Ukrainian debate, and Hungary, but Serbia receiving feed through Hungary, was in a very difficult situation. At that time, the then government, I must say, reacted well and correctly when it took action on the new infrastructure and regulation of natural gas supply. Another issue is that other such infrastructures were left non-national-owned because of what the Hungarian government was able to recover after 2010, so that we can operate these infrastructures more effectively from a security of supply point of view. It is important that the amendment of the law on gas supply and security stockpiling has established rules that meet these new and hopefully more effective security conditions, as Mr Secretary of State has said, which have been properly adapted. I also think it is important to underline that Hungary has already taken steps to build cross-border capacities to strengthen security of gas supply from the point of view of gas supply. We have completed the task, and hopefully our allies, Romania and Croatia, will act in the same way. This attitude has also resulted in the supply of gas to Hungary today, as my previous Fidesz fellow Member mentioned. Dear House, I would further highlight the regulation of the Electricity Act. In the electricity sector, the government has always supported and will support the expansion of electronic links between licensees and consumers. It is important that smart meters are installed in a foreign word, but with the word used in the profession, their penetration should be even stronger, because this smart measurement system not only facilitates, say, a direct connection between the service provider and the client, but also that the customer is better able to pay attention to the timing, timing of energy consumption, and, on the other hand, the use of renewable energy sources that may be used by the client, I am talking about own renewable energy sources, in this case, this kind of smart measurement makes the supply more predictable for the service provider, and thus also strengthens the security of the system and security of supply. I think it is important that the Government also makes amendments to the law on the use of renewable energy for transport. These amendments, I must say, are both productive and user-friendly amendments. This increasing share of renewables in fuels will be applied, implemented without major administrative obligations for producers, and will also ensure that such producers are not put at a disadvantage against those who do not do so. I must add that in this respect, the capacity of renewable fuel production has already been created by Hungary and the Visegrád countries within the European Union. Hungary also has export capacity in this respect. As a matter of fact, I can encourage the government and the author to wait for the next dose. For our part, we feel the weight and importance of this, so that we can improve the efficiency of energy use and the implementation of renewables in the consumer system, and our shortcomings in this system are not hindered by legislation, but help Hungary to become one of Europe's best-living countries in the next period. This clearly requires reducing greenhouse gas emissions, increasing energy efficiency and strengthening security of supply. In this respect, although we have had our grievances, as Mr Balczó mentioned, with certain elements of European legislation, but I feel and I see that we are able to ensure that we can enjoy the umbrella and security of the European solidarity system, in addition to maintaining Hungarian sovereignty and maintaining security of supply in Hungarian hands. On the KDNP side, I can only support the bill before us. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-11-05-142	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Gyula Molnár, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2019-11-05-143	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry. I can't be as good-hearted as the previous law when I saw Mr. Secretary of State nodding friendlyly around here several times when I said the cooperating sentences. There are some problems with that. They had a long enough time to put this bill together, since Parliament had a very, very long meeting. Now we have begun to use the term "supplier" positively, but I would like to tell you, Mr Secretary, that when a proposal of this type comes in, one begins to think as an opposition about what is hidden in this. It's really what I see in it that my good-looking fellow Member took very kindly to... [[Zoltán Balczó: Because it is mandatory!]] Okay, but the question is, all that's in this right now is that I'm kind of joining the Fidesz, and I agree with the government that we think 11 and not 10 is what's in the 11 laws. It does indeed contain what Congressman Balczó has disciplined himself here, or perhaps there are things hidden in it that the unsuspecting representative or opposition man might not notice, and then we are already in the difficult and difficult situation of seemingly supporting something, even though we should not have. [[17.00]] Well, I have to say, I'd like to talk to you about some of these things, which I see a very serious problem in. I have listened with great respect to my fellow Member Aradski's convincing argument on how to run up and down the Damascus road and do this in 5-6-7 years. In 2012, they said amazing sentences about how unethical it is to think that the storage of natural gas should not be in the hands of the state, that otherwise everything that is is is only and only right, and then it just doesn't have to be in the hands of the state. So we have spent 400-500 billion forints, so let it be said in this House for the sake of fairness that we have spent 400-500 billion forints of public money to be in public hands, and then one day we do not have to be in public hands. Now, let's see a miracle, you're here to tell us that it's actually not so bad that you can store such a security reserve abroad, this kind of framework. Congressman Witzmann was even more elegant, and he told me that everything was fine, because the bins are full. He didn't care at all about the simple fact that in this salad law, in fact, if I were now a very Fidesz communicator and sat the other way around, I would say that you betrayed your country. A factor of uncertainty has been added to the system that you, by the way, once again, have convinced everyone in 2012 that this cannot otherwise be done in this country. For example, we have district heating, and I would also like to talk about two short things. One is that the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office will be able to impose new licences and additional fees on people. This is correct; obviously, the aim is to give them more solid financial opportunities, and to fill them up a little. However, new regulations will be introduced to withdraw the permit to operate district heating. The option is that if a person is unable to obtain a permit within 30 days, or if he goes to the natural gas trader for a second time, the permit may be revoked if appropriate. I'm sorry if I'm saying it's not clear how this story got here. It is not simply that, once again, in a scolding manner, as we have mentioned many times, you are again trying to enter into a market debate with legislative, regulatory means. It's not about that again... I can't give you a specific example right now, if you ask me back, and this is a kind of debate, then obviously I couldn't tell you right now, but maybe in a few weeks we'll read in some newspaper about who's going to fall out of some kind of business, possibly otherwise, obviously looking good. So how did the boots get on the table? Why is this regulation here? This is also actually the EU's harmonisation directives or regulations, whatever, or they want Parliament to vote on it again, that someone's business with central power was wrong, and then they think we're gonna make a law, and next week, he's gonna be able to be outlawed by reference to a law. Then we have all this EU stuff. I see, too, that I think, and I am much more experienced than I am, Mr Balczó, and we have now heard the difference between directives and regulations, but it is certainly not a Swedish table for EU harmonisation. I'm sure it's not that we take what we like off the buffet, it's just goosebumps or just caviar, and by the way, something we don't like so much, we leave it on. Indeed, we see that you are taking some steps in this area, but as if it were still incomplete, I will now read some of these professional things, continue to maintain the closed supply system in the universal service, do not provide remedies for system charges. I just wanted to say one more thing. This would have been an excellent opportunity to do what our party leader said very often, not so long ago he also tabled a motion, and this would be an excellent opportunity not to have some kind of price cuts in this market based on the otherwise restrictive cuts, the Prime Minister's good mood and, where appropriate, the Prime Minister's intention, but it would be possible, especially if the horse conditions were more favourable today, significantly reducing the fees in Hungary in this area if they were to adapt the situation to market conditions, not to some kind of bureaucratic rule. When the unexpected situation arises that prices are going up, then your regulation can be some sort of upper limit for everything that happens on the market, but now, for the moment, the Hungarian people pay more, thanks to your reduction of the rent in these areas than would otherwise be justified by the market. We would also like to note that these amendments are serious confessions to the fact that energy efficiency directives have been transposed late or poorly by the Hungarian government in recent years. The technical framework of the national energy network is not ensured, there is no public energy advisory system, there is no establishment of an operational database containing the energy characteristics of the buildings of public institutions. So, I have to say, it's just a couple of focused ideas, which is why I don't share what the first opposition Member said. I don't care about the pro-government thing from this point of view, because it's obviously their political mission, that's their political task. So, we accept and recognise that there are positive elements in this, but I would like to say that we will not support the adoption of the bill in this form. I would like to continue to say once again that this kind of amendment does not ensure full compliance with EU legislation. We continue to find it incomprehensible how taxpayers' money has been paid 400-500 billion for gas storage, and now they want to be stored abroad, that is to say, to allow storage abroad with this bill; and I talked about prices. So, ladies and gentlemen, with a slight break in the peaceful silence tonight, I wanted to convey this position on behalf of my own group. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-11-05-144	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Krisztina Hohn, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2019-11-05-145	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, The LMP fraction is committed to sustainable, affordable and secure energy supply. We know that greenhouse gas emissions in Hungary have increased by 12% since 2013. Paks II is heavily indebted to the country and exposed to Russian interests. Unfortunately, we are hindering the increased penetration of renewable energy sources, as nuclear energy and renewables cannot be well integrated into a system. You know that the closure of the Mátra power plant will also be inevitable. Unfortunately, wind power plants have been banned, solar panels have been subject to a separate tax, so it is no wonder that the share of renewable energy in electricity production is only 7 percent, with which we are shamed by the EU's hosts. The only way the country can achieve the renewable share of total energy consumption is to include illegally harvested firewood. We need a full paradigm shift. Energy consumption must be reduced by means of thinking, economic incentives and energy efficiency. The share of renewable energy sources should be radically increased, especially wind and solar energy. By 2050, the country should be climate neutral and fully using renewable energy sources. Let us see that the bill before us helps these objectives. The aim of the proposal is essentially to harmonise legislation, to transpose the new EU regulations in various energy management areas into the Hungarian legal order, as we have heard before. It also includes minor non-harmonisation amendments and clarifications. Most of the amendments are eligible. I would particularly like to point out that the Electricity Act includes smart meters and flexible pricing, which will help build a flexible, decentralised electricity network. However, there are two elements in the amending package, which may be of concern. [[17.10]] The amendment of the Gas Security Stockpiling Act also allows Hungary to store and supply natural gas to other countries. What national interest does this have? This amendment can help to invest in natural gas infrastructure, to build new storage and pipelines, which is undesirable from the climate protection point of view. Not XX. It is necessary to promote further expansion of polluting technologies in the 20th century, but to build the 21st century. a decentralised, renewable-based new system of the century. Another problem is the amendment of the law on promoting the use of renewable energy for transport and reducing greenhouse gas emissions from energy used in transport. According to this, by 31 December 2020, fuel distributors are required to reduce greenhouse gas emissions per unit of energy from fuel and other transport energy products that they have placed on the market by 6 per cent. This will be achieved by increasing the incorporation rate of biofuels. The environmental benefits of biofuels are disputed. Biofuel produced from raw materials produced by large-scale production methods, machines, fertilizers and plant protection products cannot be obtained from much more energy than has been spent on its production. Another problem is that he needs a lot of land, so he's taking space away from other more useful food crops. According to the LMP fraction, the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from transport could be achieved primarily by switching to electricity, not with biofuels. Dear Parliament, In addition to its undoubtedly existing positive features, the bill is not fully in line with sustainability aspects, so the LMP fraction is likely to remain in the vote. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition.]]
u2019-11-05-146	Thank you, Congresswoman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. Congressman Zoltán Balczó submitted a two-minute comment. I give you the floor.
u2019-11-05-147	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I fully understand, Mr Molnár, if you think that about a quarter or less of these legislative amendments, mentioned by Secretary of State Kaderják, which were not born with a harmonisation mechanism, you are taking advantage of the suspicion that there may be a specific Fidesz interest in this. However, let me make it clear that opinions and perceptions are changing. I used to campaign against EU accession in 2003, then I was a representative of an EU-sceptic party, today I acknowledge EU membership, and my aim is to give the country the greatest possible advantage and to apply it with the greatest possible advantage. What I see is that the MSZ has turned in a certain way, because you mentioned things that are regulation, and you say that we don't think that's right. It can indeed be an opinion, and I see it as a tough resistance, because it says that I will not vote for it, although, obviously, in the case of the salad law, you are right that if you see suspicion in something, you will not vote for it. But one thing I can assure you is that for me, these regulations are a very important issue, as Mr Aradski mentioned, that the important guarantees for the Hungarian energy self-determination have been resolved in the Council, and these regulations actually serve a positive purpose of cooperation. And I can assure you that it doesn't matter how this was registered here, what was born in Brussels, Strasbourg, in Hungary in force, regardless of everything, if that reassures you. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-05-148	Thank you, Congressman. Congressman András Aradski has indicated his intention to make a two-minute contribution.
u2019-11-05-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Sheep I would like to say to Mr President that since 2012, the institutions and infrastructure of the Hungarian energy system have been managed by state-owned companies, which has not changed. The fact that you have objected to the fact that, in the context of a European solidarity mechanism, which is now being followed up by the draft legislation before us, we are ready to participate in the operation of the European gas supply system, an emergency system, I do not understand this from you, who is a great European, the supremeness of European systems, is being said to be the vision of European united states. Now, when it comes to this... [[Gergely Harvester's intervention.]] Secko jedno [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] As they say in our country, in Csaba. I'm surprised to hear that, Congressman. Are you no longer European? Do you not accept EU provisions and are not pleased that Hungary can actively contribute to this? [[Zoltán Balczó: The roles change!]] The points of view vary, or perhaps only the point of the meeting determined what was to be said. So once again, I say that you should be glad that we can participate in this, and the Hungarian gas storage capacity is suitable for this, both technically and quantitatively. I would just like to say that you have been very nice, thank you very much for your contribution. You were late last December 12th, and we could have discussed what was forward in your opinion and what we thought, but it wasn't important to you then. Thank you for your input, though. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-05-150	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató in two minutes.
u2019-11-05-151	To be honest, I did not intend to comment initially in this debate, but while we are talking about European matters here, I would also like to make it clear to Mr Aradski and Mr Balczó, State Secretary, and even with great respect, that no one is debating the need to transpose EU legislation. I mean, there's something you don't have to do, there's something you have to go through, but let's not get into that right now. [[Zoltán Balczó: Then the decree.]] No, I'm sorry. What's a decree, it's not, because it's valid. [[Zoltán Balczó: Okay, okay, okay!]] So what needs to be transposed must be transposed into the Hungarian legal system. At the same time, if Mr Aradski has already taken account of the European commitment in the opposition, let me indicate and join Mrs Krisztina Hohn that she formally meets these requirements, but not in substance. They do not, in principle, meet the real European objectives in terms of interconnection of energy systems or sustainable energy supply, the transition to renewable energy. They will check it out, and the only thing they will choose from it, and in this, I agree deeply with Mr Molnár, for which they will find appropriate business interests. Therefore, in this draft legislation, we will abstain from the Democratic Coalition, because what is in it is not a problem, there is a problem with what is not in it, there is a lack of a type of energy policy that is truly sustainable and which truly meets the European Union's common energy policy objectives. However, I would like to thank Mr Aradski, too, to be fair to him, in order to acknowledge the government's work on dealing with the gas crisis at the time of the then not yet Democratic Coalition, but the Prime Minister of Ferenc Gyurcsány and Csaba Molnár's energy minister. Maybe those names are worth telling you. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-05-152	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Gyula Molnár in two minutes.
u2019-11-05-153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, We've reached a moment of political history. 16 people witness this, if you count the notary and the Members on the bench, please note this moment. Jobbik and Fidesz protect Europe against MSZP. This is a very nice moment, it's wonderful, by the way. And I am also pleased that Mr Balczó has returned to us, and he still has the memory that he must fight with me. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] And not the other side. In the meantime, some things have happened here in the past, but let's put that aside. However, I think it is very, very important that, before that, this remains in anyone in this room, so that it is clear: we think it is a very good regulation that has been established in the EU. I just wanted to draw attention to this contradiction that you sold everyone back home in 2012, when someone dared to say that we may not have to solve this problem with 400 billion public money, but perhaps there is another cheaper solution for this, which, of course, is not in the hands of the state, it may not be all in Hungary, but it will solve this problem. We arrived here, 2019, and I'm glad this enlightenment happened to everyone. So, once again, political history moment, I'm going to write this down, in my memoirs it will definitely be in that we have fought a huge battle here, and you have defended the European Union against me. Don't do it again. That's not what's necessary. Let's go over everything that comes from that point of view and it's good. Thank you very much. [[17.20]]
u2019-11-05-154	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn.
u2019-11-05-155	Thank you very much for the floor. I must say this because the congressman spoke to me, which is a great moment in my life, because I am rarely called by Members of Fidesz. But I'm taking this opportunity to tell you that we need to talk about December 12th. It was then a day when you simply left us no choice but to do such a thing, perhaps to carry out unruly and extremely bad acts for you here in Parliament, but, unfortunately, it was such a day. It's gonna go down in history. I hope our grandchildren will not be angry with us, but rather proud that we did so then. That's one of them. On the other hand, unfortunately, there are a lot of legislative proposals where you do not participate and do not even listen to what the unfortunate opposition has come up with again, what kind of amendment they are trying to make, or at all some kind of law or resolution proposal. But because we are using our democratic rights, we are telling our criticisms and comments about the laws, even if that may not mean anything. But it does matter, because if we weren't here, your lives would be very boring. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-05-156	Thank you, Congresswoman. I'll give the floor to Andra Aradski in a normal time frame.
u2019-11-05-157	Thank you very much. It is indeed a historic moment that the representative of the MSZP is making anti-European outbursts. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] The truth, Mr President, is that in 2012, the situation was different in terms of security of gas supply, and the situation is different now. However, I must add that these infrastructures are in the hands of state-owned companies in France and Austria, which are heavily shut down and nationalistic. All I would like to say to Mr Arato's words is that he told us that he was formally okay, but the content matters. Allow me to conclude with an anecdote. I was now in the Revolutionary regiment of Kalocsa when there was such a general cleaning, and the chief of staff came in, for the sake of the ladies, to check the quality of the cleaning, and he only said: "The stone, comrades, the stone is clean, but the content, comrades! Well, that's the level of your comment. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-05-158	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Balczó in two minutes.
u2019-11-05-159	Thank you for the floor. Dear Congressman Molnár, You interpret this debate very badly. I was delusional that there was basically a professional debate. I'm not fighting you, not at all. I thought that I was trying to shed some light on some of the questions that we see professionally differently, and that doesn't mean that we're in some kind of fight now, and I'm gonna be chasing the other side. It is a question of looking at the minutes of the last five years, István Ujhelyi, as a basically EU-critical representative, and in this situation I have considered that these legislative proposals are acceptable, consistent with what we consider to be the right one, and I therefore support this. That's what I'm talking about. And let me add to Mr Arató why the regulations should also be transposed, in my opinion. It's because if we didn't, this is what we're talking about. The European Union announces a regulation, which is published in Hungarian, in the form of an EU regulation, in Hungary in force. If we don't transpose it into the Electricity Act, there will be a situation where someone takes out the current electricity law and believes that it makes the right decision when it turns out, oh, no, it hasn't been for a long time, because it's been topped up by this EU regulation. Therefore, the transposition of the regulation is necessary because of this codification reason and because of clarity, but there is no playing field, and there is no way to cheat, as opposed to the directive. So once again, as an EU-critical representative, this is a subject that I have some knowledge of as an electrical engineer in electrical engineering, and I have considered positive. That's it. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-05-160	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman László Hajdu in a normal time frame.
u2019-11-05-161	Mr. Secretary. Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, I think that, arguing about energy efficiency, but also thinking about climate and energy policy goals, it is right that smart electricity meters can be installed here, I think, with support, and perhaps also in houses and apartments. In line with energy efficiency and, of course, climate policy objectives, why can't the same smart clock be introduced for gas energy? It exists there. Just because there has already been a measurement of electricity consumption, but in gas energy consumption, especially in mass housing, consumers are charged a flat rate. An experimental house was built in my constituency, a large panel house with 12 stairwells, where the flat fee is only the consumer of the kitchen stove, no more, since the apartments are district heating and the other part of the energy consumption is electricity, the co-operative house had a flat fee of about HUF 8 million. It was installed every staircase, because it is very difficult to solve it technically, on a pipe, but could be solved in the 13 stairwells, and now we can say that last year's Christmas installation, HUF 3.8 million is the standard fee for this year's measurement. So on one side there is a correct measurement, and on the other hand we say that there is a real savings in overhead. There is another issue of energy efficiency that we have not talked about here today, but the closing and thermal insulation of houses, it is also part of energy efficiency and climate protection, and this huge material is included in the 11 amended laws, and the district heating law is also missing, where huge energy savings and energy efficiency could be implemented, and this bill itself is not about this. I somehow miss this, and I have to say that it would also be in the interests of the national economy to deal with this, at least in the framework of the legal incentive, or the previous one, which, at the time of the left-wing governments, was somehow expressed as energy efficiency, that if one third of the costs were borne by the house, one third by the Hungarian budget, and one third by the local authorities, and it worked very well at the time, I feel that these thermal insulations, window changes, the apartments were renewed. We are not dealing with this, although we are discussing and discussing energy saving, energy efficiency, climate protection and many other goals here. Agreeing with those who support certain parts of the law, I think that, in addition to such shortcomings, the government should come up with some amendments to make the consumer himself, specifically the public, feel what law we are debating here today and go into his pocket or put something in his pocket. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-05-162	Thank you, Congressman. I am asking my fellow Members, who would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr. Peter Kaderjak, Secretary of State, so that he can give his opinion.
u2019-11-05-163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank you for your decisively supportive contributions to the bill, and let me also try to respond briefly to the critical points that have been expressed during the speeches and try to clarify the background to some of the proposed measures. [[17 .30]] My first general comment concerns the relationship between sovereignty and legal harmonisation, which has appeared several times in the speeches. I would also like to assure everyone at this point that, on the part of the Hungarian Government, when we are involved in the development of EU rules in the energy sector, we are doing so because we believe that an integrated European energy system, an integrated, efficient electricity and gas market, will significantly increase the security of supply and the efficiency of the operation of the energy sector for Hungary. So we are joining a decisively positive process, but I think that in this process in recent years, it has been a constant feature of our representation of sovereignty. My predecessors, Mr.Aradszki Secretary of State and his team, as they discussed the elements of the package of pure energy, whose implementation is partly presented, but not in its entirety, because there is still a great deal of work ahead of us that the Hungarian Parliament will be able to implement this package in more circles in this place, so in this European debate the Hungarian Government has issued opinions on the party of national sovereignty. To mention just one thing, what Congressman Molnár has mentioned, the Hungarian Government has been fighting all along to maintain public price regulation in the universal service and in the universal service community, so that the national government can decide to liberalise prices, free up prices or keep prices at official level, and we have stood up for sovereignty all along. We say that this is a national competence, this cannot be taken into account, and this position has finally been overcome in this debate. However, when these laws have already been adopted by the European bodies, they become mandatory, even when drawing up implementation proposals, where there is room for manoeuvre and, of course, in the case of directives, there are opportunities to implement these legislation, we also have the interests of Hungarian consumers in mind when we propose appropriate solutions to you, how we implement these very general provisions in the European Union, often. I would like to make another introductory point, and this has been said in several speeches, thank you to everyone who has noticed, highlighted and supported the introduction of smart measurement in Hungary as part of this draft legislation. I would add that the proposal itself includes a proposal and an obligation for traders to offer consumers time-dependent and flexible tariffs in addition to smart measurement, so that we do not lose the aspect that this step should be in the interests of consumers, that it should enable them to adapt their own consumption to prices, market conditions and that they can smartly save rents so that we can move this process forward. We consider this to be an essential element of the present proposal. In response to Mr Balczó's suggestion on strategy renewals, I would like to point out that in the draft, the proposal for a five-year review, in the case of the national climate change strategy, which is the second one adopted by the Parliament and adopted at the end of last year, at the end of 2018, we find that it is not appropriate to revise this within one year. There was also a slippage in the adoption of the second national climate strategy compared to what was the rule on renewal, and this is what the amendment is now aimed at. As regards the joint management of energy and climate change, I deeply agree with this point. The reason why the Secretary of State responsible for energy and climate policy was established within the ITM is because, for our part, we also believe that these two issues are inseparable from each other, and that these integrated aspects and the creation of a new strategy will reflect this in the strategy-making process that is now at the end, through the renewal of the national energy strategy and the renewal of the national energy and climate plan. The issue of gas storage has been raised several times and in several speeches. In order to better understand what the background of the proposal is, it must be said that the new regulation on gas security, which the European Community has created, introduced a very specific concept, the concept of compulsory solidarity, which states that, in the event of a gas crisis, the EU Member States must be in solidarity with each other. Solidarity is basically a voluntary thing in general, but in this case we are talking about a mandatory solidarity, when another Member State asks Hungary for help abroad or Hungary asks for help from a neighbouring Member State, it is also mandatory to help it even if it is no longer possible on a market basis. The mechanism, the provision that could provide access to the Hungarian security storage capacity of natural gas for foreigners, but, of course, in the order that this instrument serves primarily Hungarian protected customers, is intended to fulfil this condition. In particular, if we are at all costs in a situation where we need to help our fellow citizens in the European Union, then the natural gas security stockpiling system should be partially available for such purposes, at least in competition with the possibility of limiting the consumption of significant Hungarian industrial consumers in order to provide this type of solidarity to neighbouring countries. So it is clear and clear from this principle, this new principle, the principle of compulsory solidarity. I would also like to respond to what was raised by the Secretary of State and Member of the Council of Aradski, which concerns the issue of biofuels, and so that monitoring of component ratio increases should not be overly bureaucratic. Of course, with the mandate given to the government by the draft law to create this control system, we will do everything we can to ensure that this is a minimum additional bureaucracy, but we feel that, in order to protect decent fuel distributors, this control system, our system today, must be strengthened. [[17.40]] Congressman Molnár has raised the issue of gas security stockpiling, I believe I have already discussed that. He also suggested that there might be solutions where regulatory proposals are not of a legislative harmonisation nature, but could serve some other purpose. This is true, of course, and I have also indicated in the expoze that we are not only talking about legislative harmonisation proposals, but we are also proposing amendments where the regulatory experience of the past period has drawn attention to the fact that our current rules are not working perfectly. You mentioned the proposal to withdraw the district heating licence, which was set out in Article 8. One of the amendments proposed in § 4 which literally sounds like the Office will withdraw the district heating operator's operating licence if the Get. For 30 days from the date of designation of the natural gas trader providing the final supply of shelter in accordance with the first subparagraph, it shall not ensure the independent purchase of natural gas and fuel necessary for the production of district heating. Unfortunately, the Hungarian energy agency met with the practice, there was a case of a district heating service provider in a given settlement who was unable to obtain the natural gas necessary for the supply of district heating independently for some reason, so it was compulsory to appoint the National Public Works to ensure that the district heating service could be used by consumers at some price and with some kind of condition. And that's happened several times. He thinks and said that the Hungarian energy agency has told us that he thinks that this practice is untenable, because what kind of a district heating service has been granted permission once, but then he is in a position to be unable to buy natural gas to do this service. I don't think there's anything to hide. This is a practice, it is a situation where it is quite right to say that such a service provider's licence should be withdrawn. So this is not about settling disputes, it is about responding to practices from cases that we think are not good for the teleheat market and the quality of service. With regard to universal service price regulation, I would specifically like to say that, as I said, Hungary was fighting a sovereignty fight there so that this system could survive, and so that it could be guaranteed that, if the market processes lay the foundation, Hungarian consumers would receive energy services at a low price. If you look at Eurostat's latest published data on the price at which Hungarian domestic consumers receive gas and electricity services in the universal service in a European comparison, you will see that they are the lowest in European comparison. It is not the second lowest, but the lowest price at which Hungarian consumers today obtain products in part as a result of this regulation. In such a case, I think it is irresponsible, since these prices are precisely to guarantee low prices for consumers and, on the one hand, to offer the government the opportunity not to increase these prices in the case of price increases if there is a price increase. So I think that if we make a smart use of the opportunity that Hungary has achieved in this sovereignty struggle, if you like, it can help to maintain a system that serves the interests of Hungarian consumers. I would also like to add a few points to Mrs Hohn Krisztina's speech. Very interesting thing, that psychological phenomenon occurred to me, there are a lot of these psychological tests, when you have to look at a picture, and once you see something in it, and then when you look at it for a long time, you see something quite different in the same picture, or if two people look at the same picture, you see two very different things in it. As you have described Hungary's climate performance and what the Hungarian government and Hungarian businesses, the Hungarian people and the local authorities do in order to protect the climate, we see in stark contrast the performance of the government that you painted. How do we see the same performance from the Hungarian side? In Hungary, greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 32 percent compared to 1990, the change of regime. This is in the first third of Europe's comparison. Denmark and I are in a dead race for 9th place on this ranking. It should also be said that if we look at our electricity production, you have whipped the fact that we have little renewable energy use. It must be stated that Hungarian electricity production, which is the key to a credible electromobility programme, is not worth doing electromobility because of climate protection, so 60 percent of our electricity sector is carbon neutral in Hungary today. Of this 50 percent is the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, 10 percent is the use of renewable energy. It is very difficult to move towards a complete decarbonised vision by rejecting nuclear energy production, and by the way, by doing electromobility on the base of polluting electricity production. That won't lead to that vision. We see that all technological options are needed to move towards a vision that approximates climate neutrality, and I would also like to stress that we are not only below the European average in terms of reduction percentage, but also in greenhouse gas emissions per capita. So it's very strange how this climate performance is assessed by who. We see that the Hungarian community has made an enormous effort since 1990 to produce this 32 percent against countries that are otherwise very climate-friendly, but since 90 they have not reduced a ton of CO2 emissions, such as Portugal, Spain, Austria and Ireland. And they demand full scope for climate neutrality in 2050, but they are not yet in the process of implementing this, unlike Hungary. So I think that we should appreciate that very complex and very much how should I put it? a significant effort, which I say once again, has not been made by the Hungarian government to make this happen, but by businesses, municipalities, individuals, residents who have isolated their homes, who are making efforts to save energy, install solar panels on top of their houses, so that we can produce these results in Hungary. Obviously, we're doing everything we can from the government's side to make sure that's done. It is a strange thing that you are criticising the fact that we are raising the share of biofuels in order to meet the renewable energy targets, because, in particular, in the field of transport, there is very little opportunity for us to move towards reducing greenhouse gas emissions, because it is possible to say that we should use second generation biofuels, but that they do not exist yet. They're only in the labs. What we have is the ban, tell us what to ban, how to stop people from running; do first-generation biofuel incorporation and electromobility, but only if we decarbonize our power sector. That's only if we use the nuclear power plant and nuclear power. So the whole thing should be said in a consistent way and the criticism should be formulated consistently. Nevertheless, I would like to thank you very much for supporting so many elements of the proposal; I would particularly like to thank you very much for the request for smart measurement, and also for the fact that you indicated a position on the part of the party that was at least neutral. I think that I would perhaps like to make one last comment or add to the points raised by Mr László Hajdu. I fully agree, by the way, that we are still very, very, very far from being good in the area of energy efficiency and that it is possible to get very far in this area. [[17.50]] I would like to point out that, although the present proposal does not really focus on how energy efficiency subsidies should be adapted in Hungary to achieve our main objectives, but again, we are talking about proposals for legal harmonisation to a significant extent, I would like to point out that, with government support, very significant resources are also available to the public to carry out energy efficiency investments. The residential energy efficiency credit programme is the most important source of this. Here I also indicate that this is an MFB product that is being redistributed. In view of the great interest in Budapest and Pest County, these sources of credit are a zero-percent source of credit, and we are working to provide new funds. Individuals, condominiums and residential cooperatives can apply for the retail energy efficiency credit scheme with a minimum of 10 per cent own resources, including the modernisation of heating systems, insulation, replacement of windows and the installation of solar, solar, heat pump and modern wood gasification systems. The minimum amount of credit to be reimbursed is HUF 500 000, the maximum amount is HUF 10 million for individuals and HUF 7 million for households and housing cooperatives with a 20-year term. So we are trying to create constructions that lead to such programmes through a joint effort between the state and private actors. It will be worth considering that in cases where you have mentioned flat-rate gas supply of condominiums, which is a strange thing, because in buildings where there is also a power line, where there is a district heating service in general, and there is also gas use, it is also suggested that it is advisable to maintain three parallel infrastructure in these apartments, it may not be possible to somehow replace one of them, even in the case of gas, but smart measurement solutions are also suitable. So thank you for your comment, and we will now look at how this particular problem can be addressed, regardless of the presentation. Once again, I would like to thank you for your comments on the proposal. Together with everything, I urge honourable Members to ensure that the bill is supported. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-05-164	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. A general debate on the draft legislation on vocational training is now taking place until the end. The government referral is T/7843. Parliament is available on the IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr József Bódis, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2019-11-05-165	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The government considers it a priority to create a knowledge-based economy and to improve Hungary's competitiveness. A key prerequisite for sustainable economic growth is a skilled labour force capable of adapting to social change and labour market needs. The Hungarian economy is also performing outstandingly at European level, and it has increased by more than 5 percent. Today more than 4.5 million people work in Hungary, and the number of active workers has increased by 811 thousand since 2010. The employment rate has risen higher than ever, above 70 percent. The number of job seekers has fallen to 160,000, with a 3.5 percent unemployment rate being one of the lowest in the European Union. Data also show that the economy is on a long-term growth path. This also means that there is a huge need for skilled workers, so the government also pays particular attention to vocational training with a view to the continuous and dynamic growth of the economy. We strive to ensure that as many young people as possible acquire their profession and qualifications. To this end, we are taking further steps to strengthen vocational training. During the years since 2011, the Government has made significant progress in the development of the VET system. Thus, among other things, there has been a rethink of professional qualifications in line with economic goals, increased access to vocational training, the second qualification has been obtained free of charge, adult education and a dual training system at company level. However, the development of the economy and changes in society pose new challenges, to which we need to respond appropriately in order to maintain competitiveness. Therefore, the training system can never be considered completed, because its continuous development, adapted to the needs of the age and economy, can ensure that professionals with a high level of expertise and key competences are adequately available. Dear Parliament, The bill before you is the result of a long development process, the starting point for a system of thought-out and reinforced vocational training that opens new dimensions. The government's important and forward-looking decision was to adopt the Vocational Training 4.0 strategy, which is an important basis for the legislative proposal submitted. The Vocational Training 4.0 strategy was developed together with market participants for the Austrian model. The strategic goal is to ensure that highly skilled young people who love their profession enter the labour market and strengthen the economic role of Hungarian companies with their knowledge. The well done work ensures stable and predictable livelihoods, decent wages, contributes to further strengthening of Hungary's economy and increasing competitiveness. The measures set out in the strategy are designed to provide students in vocational education and training with a competitive knowledge base in an attractive training environment equipped with modern tools and modern technology. The Vocational Training Bill 4.0 follows the principle of framework regulation, allowing for further development of well-functioning elements of the current VET system, while establishing the basis and framework for a new, flexible and dynamic system. The proposal provides the basis for a more flexible vocational training system, which is separate from the system of public education and which can better adapt to economic changes. The provisions of the bill are equally relevant to vocational training institutions, professional and other organisations involved in vocational training, economic chambers supervising the practical training system, pupils and trainers. Dear House, With the adoption of the draft law, two types of vocational training institutions will be the technics and vocational education and training schools from the 2020-21 academic year. According to the proposal, students can choose between the technique and the vocational training school, with five years of training in the former and three years of training in the latter. Both types of schools start with sectoral basic education, so the student has the opportunity to choose a profession later with basic knowledge of the sector. At the end of the fifth year, the technics also prepare the students for graduation, so the graduates can receive their technical diplomas and graduation certificates at the same time. Improving the financial value of vocational training workers is a key instrument for improving the quality of vocational training. [[18.00]] More than 32,000 teachers' wages in vocational training increase by an average of 30 percent, with an annual budget of HUF 35 billion. The wage increase, which will enter into force on 1 July 2020, will allow for the retention of the best professionals and the inclusion of new professionals from the market sector in vocational training as hours' tax. In the future, all vocational training instructors can enter into individual wage deals with their employer, so they can do their job under the best conditions. Avoidance from the scope of the Public Employee Act with too rigid pay tables thus means a higher wage increase, an increase in opportunities, and the establishment of a performance-based, competitive, motivating pay system. A more flexible system for determining the wages of teachers in vocational training will be established, in which no one will suffer worse. Vocational training instructors may continue to receive a Jubilee Prize, continue to be entitled to a teacher's ID and, as a new element, benefit under the Labour Code. From the next academic year, students from all vocational schools will receive scholarships guaranteed by the State from the first year. Following sector-based training, students can enter into vocational training contracts with a company or enterprise as part of dual training, and can already receive work wages from these companies, in order to complete practical training. As a student, students can experience what it is like to be an employee in the world of work. Dear Parliament, An important aspect of the new regulation is that the new system provides students with a competitive level of education, knowledge and attractive career opportunities that the economy expects. It also provides teachers in vocational training with increasing wages and more appreciation for their chosen profession. The draft law provides a sure basis for further strengthening the Hungarian economy, achieving full employment and strengthening Hungary's competitiveness. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] By adopting the bill before you, it will be possible for a strengthened, high-quality system of vocational training to provide continuous and appropriate responses to the challenges of an ever-changing economic environment. In order to achieve these objectives, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-11-05-166	Thank you, Secretary of State József Bódis. Dear Parliament, The speech will now take place in 15-15 minutes' time frame. I give the floor first to Mr Vinnai Győző, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-11-05-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I think, and allow me, today I have quoted a quote on education, school and learning that an important bill, an important amendment of the law, has been put on the table in this House. As the Secretary of State has mentioned in his expo, the economy is changing very quickly, social conditions are changing around us, and a knowledge-based economy needs to be improved, an economy where if the education system is good, vocational training is good, the individual can be successful if he acquires this qualification. So good for the student, good for the student, good for the family where the student comes from. It can be good for the economy, because if more and more professionals, more and more skilled people are at the disposal of the economy, it will result in the process that we have heard in the expoze that employment is increasing. We're over 70 percent, so I can say that this is the highest since the change of system. You may remember that in 1993 1.5 million jobs were lost in Hungary, the country was in a very difficult situation, and there were some 700-750 thousand forced entrepreneurs in the news at the time, and now we have more than 4.5 million people working, and employment is over 70%. And it is good for society, because if the labour market develops this way and there are skilled, skilled people, it contributes to the development of the national economy. But I think of this not only in an economic sense, but also in a cultural sense, because skilled workers or skilled people can apply modern technology, which appears quickly and here before our eyes. We can integrate digitalization content into this process. Let me just say, in parentheses, it was enough for a mechanic, let's say, 30 or 40 years ago, to have the tools. Today, it cannot exist without computer knowledge, since fault codes, fault detection, are first viewed by car mechanics on the computer. This also improves competitiveness. Let me say that it is also included in the bill itself, but, as we have heard in the expoze, from 2011, there has been a continuous transformation and renewal of vocational training, but there is a certain funding that works, and there is a wage increase in the teacher's assessment here, and this is covered, by the involvement of instructors, engineers, economists, other professionals in the training, thus involving people with practical knowledge in the training, the creation of permanent training, the law itself provides for compulsory training every four years, the development of sectoral competences, the development of sectoral skills. They also tell me that, in fact, there is a serious change, a profound change, perhaps I dare say, a paradigm shift. What are the elements of this profound change? First the structure and then the details. One is that training also changes on content issues. Training changes with regard to content, if they will learn basic skills or sectoral competences in the first year of vocational school, in technical schools, but also in vocational school. Basic knowledge of the sector is learned, followed by vocational training, vocational training, which is, say, a three-year vocational school, so a year of sectoral base knowledge or basic knowledge and two years of vocational training. This is very important that it also changes its content. There's the methodology to get that knowledge. And not only are we talking about theoretical knowledge, but we are talking about practical training with economic actors, the Chamber, the sectoral skills council, the VET innovation council, the company training council, so there are many new institutions where practitioners, practitioners and practitioners can help with practical training. This bill allows the system to be transparent and interoperable. Let me say to the interoperable system that the tech training... It was also about the type of school, Mr Secretary, that there are practically two types of school here: technics and vocational school. The technics would be undivided, five years of training, so after graduation another year of training can be obtained from a technical degree and, of course, you can continue to study. In fact, if there are such good results after five years, then in higher education, I may say this with a little fear of learning from the right results. So this system is interoperable. There is definitely a part of a secondary education, and you can go to college and college from the technique. But the vocational school also has the opportunity, the three plus two, to get a degree after the vocational training, after the profession. Of course, what do you need to do about it? There is a need for an attractive environment, for infrastructure development in the attractive environment, for sector based workshops, for the integration of digital content in vocational training, and for a new system of interests, the details of which I hope I will still have time, for one to motivate teachers with wage increases, professional challenges, and for students a scholarship. Anyone applying for vocational training can get a scholarship. [[18.10]] Well, let's see how that goes. I do not want to say this, my fellow Members, especially to my fellow opposition Members, to approach this amendment from the perspective of high school or technique, vocational training or general high school. It's a free school election. I wouldn't go against it. It is necessary that if you are a good student, you go to high school, and from there you go to college, college, but you also need professionals. Anyone who goes to tech and has a good ability can, of course, get a degree. So I think it's a shame to get into the debate about how many people are applying to high school now, or how many are applying to the old name of a vocational high school or a vocational high school... [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] No, no! I would like to offer my fellow harvester some peace. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's hard to do! A statement from the representatives of the MSZP: Now he said it calmly!]] So what I'd like to say is... [[The president's ringing the bell.]] He still seems calm. [[Demercation from the benches of opposition parties.]] So in the conscious choice of profession, I am there, with regard to the attractive environment, the conversation with parents, the career orientation, that it is worth choosing a profession in Hungary today. And, of course, if you want to continue studying, that's the whole point of the system, open, flexible, interoperable system, you can go to college and college. The other thing is very important, and it can be seen from this bill that we are talking about training based on strengthening cooperation between vocational training and the business sector. And that means that anyone who chooses a profession acquires the qualifications of a profession that provides a safe livelihood, in a system where he has acquired it, can be placed on the labour market, so he can also meet the needs of the economy. And as I said in my introduction, there is an individual successful life course, which is also good for the community, because I think it is the obvious, or I think that it is obvious to many of us that the Hungarian economy needs as much skilled labour as possible. Allow me to give you a brief example. Not so long ago, I attended an employer's forum where entrepreneurs and representatives of companies appeared as employers and complained that there was no more staff to hire, or that if someone was hired, they would be there for a short time and leave. In a disadvantaged district in Tisavasvári there was this employer forum, for the settlements of the district of Tisavasvár, for farmers, entrepreneurs and company managers there. There was a very interesting statistics published by a labor expert on unemployment. I note in parentheses that unemployment was 12 percent in 2010, now 3.4 percent. But in the disadvantaged region of Tisavasvári, unemployment was between 20 and 25 percent ten years ago, and now 7 and 8 percent. It's still double the national average, but it's still down significantly there, and you gotta admit that. This labour market expert has shown who the unemployed, who are registered jobseekers, are made up of. And it turns out that there are about 1670 unemployed people in the district of Tisavasvár, this is a 30-thousand district, I say, 7-8 percent, and of which 1372 have or have not completed a primary education, functional illiterate, or no 8 classes to be clear. So a degree, a professional qualification, is definitely a protection against unemployment. And let me also note, because it has to be said in a cardinal way that it is also a welcome fact that the amendment to the law on the conversion of vocational training was preceded by the VET strategy, which we discussed in the spring called Vocational Training 4.0, and became known on 28 March, which means that it is in line with the fact that there is a vision, a strategy, and then we adapt the legislative framework. As the Secretary of State said, this legislation is a framework, it gives flexibility to adapt. And there's one more thing. The introduction of the National Basic Training Plan is due on or will take place on 1 September 2020, and this VET Act will also enter into force on 1 January, but will in fact be published in the education system from 1 September 2020. I've already told you about the new types of school, so the technics and the vocational school. Allow me to mention that those who have not been able to decide where to give their child will have a Dobbanto program if you have read the bill, then there is a Dobbanto program in it, if the school is willing to participate in the pedagogical program, then they will figure out which direction to go on, and there will be a workshop school that will provide part-training. There are people here who know that we also discussed this at committee meetings, that this would replace the VET bridge program, because the VET bridge program was not very successful... [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] No, it's not. It's a shame to project this, Mr Harvester. We have to start from a practical life. Instead of the VET bridge programme, this would be a programme to avoid drop-out and early school leaving. I admit that this is still to be worked on, and it is not an easy task, let's say, to reduce the number of unskilled school leavers to less than 10%. We're about 11.5 percent now. Then let me mention that there will also be a new profession structure and a new system of education and training. I'll just mention that briefly. Since my time is running out, I would also like to underline what Mr Secretary of State has said that the acquisition of a profession is free of charge for two professions and can be completed by day training until the age of 25 and a professional qualification is free. The exam will also have a new system, and the exams will take place in a new way. Allow me, since I am running out of time to say perhaps two more things, I would like to talk about the scholarship and the employees of vocational training institutions. First about the scholarship. So it is for everyone who participates in day-time education; it is also for sector-based education, professional education and for certain preparatory courses, workshops. In addition, 2 thousand students, underprivileged 2 thousand students and students achieving good academic results, because this condition can receive an Apáczai Scholarship, and a new element in the law is that they will also receive a one-time start-up allowance for students who will be able to start their life easier. I mentioned the situation of the instructors. We want to make education more flexible, and a wage increase is also expected, with a budget of 35 billion. That's about a 30% wage increase. If you calculate, an average raise is about HUF 100,000 for a person who now has a salary, say, after a few years of teaching an iks amount, an extra 100 thousand forints raise, about 30 per cent increase. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So, to sum up, I would like to say that this is a mature, good proposal. I would like to ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-05-168	Thank you very much, Congressman Vinnai. I now give the floor to Mr Ander Balázs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2019-11-05-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Like the present school, the future of Szent-Györgyi Albert will be like this. And if that's true, let's tie up the underwear, because we have terrible data. Here we have heard real praises about the state of public education and vocational training in Hungary, as well as the vision that Mr. Secretary of State was so kind to outline. But we have already learned from Viktor Orbán that we are not looking at what he says, but at what he is doing, and the fact is that there is some contradiction here between the two. Secretary of State said I took notes here that it was a knowledge-based economy. That sounds so nice. How good it would be if that were true! By the way, I wish it were, and these visions will be fulfilled. [[18.20]] The Secretary of State also spoke about competitiveness. Then let's look at the pure, evil numbers, statistical results. Let's see how much, let's say, in our exports, the knowledge of high added value is even compared to the V4 states. He's shorter than there. Let us see where we stand in terms of competitiveness. You can point to Uganda here, because we are definitely ahead of them, but if you look at the neighbors again, you have to say that Hungary is not doing so well. And if you are talking about constantly renewable vocational training as one of the pillars of our education system, then you should also see what this continuous renewal has brought. There's a reason they're talking about Vocational Training 4.0. Please, if the governor Fidesz of nine and a half years had to make so many adjustments, it certainly wasn't good. And if they keep the workers in this area in constant uncertainty, it will result in a kind of unpredictability, a kind of learned inertia among the colleagues who work there. There will be a legal increase in frustration, burnout, and any negative consequences associated with it. Although they are talking about a wage increase now, it is very right, it should be, but they forget to add that trade unions have not operated a wage gauge by accident, because since 2014, the projection fund to which teachers' wages have been tied has remained unchanged. It was tied to 101,500 HUF, the minimum wage at the time, and thus to a university degree, ped. You're taking the exact amount of money you're about to take from a teacher in II on a monthly basis. Then how is that? Once again, there are nice words and there is reality. It's the reality that comes before you quite often. Let me refer to the latest news here. My fellow Member, Szabó, was just sharing this good news about the Index with me. Mr Tamás Schanda, State Secretary, says that we do not have to, the ITM is turning to the government with that proposal, and we have also fought a great deal in the Jobbik faction to avoid introducing the obligation from 2020 to require a language examination for admission. Now you acknowledge that what you have said so far has been explained in this regard, in fact, is not true. How, then, should we believe the beautiful words that the Secretary of State has spoken here? I have to say, it doesn't. In addition, as far as the bill is concerned, it can be said in general that perhaps it is the 127th one. § I don't want to say anything stupid, the 127th, whatever kind of blank would ask the House for a check, 3 plus 45 areas would regulate this framework law. So let's just nod on it, believe how good it is, how beautiful it will be, and obviously who doesn't say that everything is very nice, everything is very good, and everything is satisfied, it's a dick... let me not list it here. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: A traitor.]] He's a traitor. Thank you very much, dear Congresswoman. He must be a traitor, that's right, he doesn't want the good of the nation. However, if we start from these numbers, these hard numbers and statistics, then we must say that this caution is the opposition, or at least on our part, in our opinion it is absolutely right. I don't dispute good intentions, it's just that in nine and a half years, this good intentions will be able to give you some more statistics. Well, let's see. László Parragh, who, according to some information, is behind the whole new reform and behind the reform madness as a permanent actor, says that in relation to the adoption of civil servant status, teachers will be subject to the Code of Work, which you now praise to the heavens, how good it will be for them, because how flexible we think that flexibility as a concept can also be a very evil thing, especially if we think of your economic and social policy, because that means nothing more than being a servant, being completely vulnerable, being shut up, because otherwise we will be reprimanded. From a much more protected status, these teachers go where they don't want to go. Mr State Secretary, I was looking at the ITM website right here, and he also said that there is a continuous dialogue with the trade unions. Yeah? Then why did the Teachers' Union resign from the Vocational Training and Innovation Council? Why? 'Cause if you say there's a continuous negotiation, in reality, it means nothing but dictatorships. They say something, and it has to be. However, these professional partners are not being listened to, and at all, the whole thing has not been put into a social debate. Obviously, it was possible to know what was about to happen, and the person who was paying attention could expect from Vocational Training 4.0 what would be expected in connection with all of this. Yet, they save these debates and try to adjust their dictatorships as if they were real negotiations, although that is not true. So, what did László Parragh say? It means that you can lean a little back on these teachers if they're under the civil servant status. He said even further: they will receive that money as if they were working with full force. Well, hold it right there. One of the women from Jászberény, Fidesz, said that young people going abroad consider it a party and live on pot cookies. And I think there's some weird cookie that can make that kind of sentence out of you. You've insulted tens of thousands of teachers, ladies and gentlemen of the government! What do you mean, they don't work full force? Let me put another number here, the education efficiency index. The last data I could find shows that Hungarian teachers are working very well, and what they can get out of this system. The rest, I'm sorry, but it's your fault. Let's look at OECD countries. The most effective education is not surprisingly conducted in Finland, then in the second place there is South Korea, in the third place, I think it is the Czech Republic, and according to this, Hungary was fourth. The 25th was Germany and the 28th was Switzerland. Oops! That's not the problem. So it's not that these naughty teachers and educators sit back and do nothing because they're doing great in this gay civil servant status. They're moving forward nicely, and they're pocketing big, big money. That's bullshit. They're working. Here there is a problem with other results, such as fairness. What does this fairness mean, my fellow Members? It means that, say, a student with a low background index can move forward, or stays where he came from, and Hungary is doing very, very badly in this respect. Well, that's what needs to be changed. I can't really read it from this, if I wanted to, maybe read it, or imagine it, but I'd say it can't be read, but you could imagine, we just have some bitter experiences that tell us not to sign this blank check. And let us not say that 48 very important areas will be regulated here by regulation, and this is basically just a framework regulation, and then we will leave it to you to fill this out with content. We have no intention of saying no to this. I am sorry, Secretary of State Bodis, at some point you have said that there will be a good world here in the world of education when there will be teachers on the field who do not consider this profession to be a kind of source of money. Well, they're looking for that money, but they don't really find it here, I say, on behalf of the colleagues, with great respect. And once again, what they're giving back has been taken away from them over the years. So you shouldn't be so proud of that. That's one of them. And the other is where the legal guarantee is that it will be raised the next year, and the next year, and the next day, or they will receive a raise now, and then inflation will take what it takes away, and in years they will always point back to you to receive the raise, so be quiet. We don't think this is the way of the future. [[18.30]] Well, then the other one, about vocational training, but it really should just be one of those parentheses things, because there would be a lot of things I'd like to talk about. András Benedek, President of the Vocational College of the Hungarian Educational Society, once said that graduation should be the new foundation, and this is not some fantasy, some kind of world-flinging madness. If we look at some truly competitive, innovative countries, society, Japan, for example, or Finland, we see that this has reached a 90 percent level. But what would that take? It is that the education of general education, culture and personality development should be 12 years old, and then professional education will not be missed. Obviously, these young people should be kept in school somehow; this would be worth a separate story, and we will talk about it. Well, a few questions or questions are still here in the next few minutes. We find it a bad thing that there are reasonable and mandatory benefits here, such as the Jubilee Prize, of which you would turn into something that could be given. Then the security of employment would also be severely damaged; I think here, let us say, about the reasons for the exemption, which, in your opinion, means flexible work. Then the length of the notice period and the status change in this form, as you imagined, would be much shorter, the severance pay would also be lower. It is no coincidence that some critical voices say that the whole of this kind of transfer of money may then be possible, although I would add that this amount of around 30 billion is indeed significant. But you have to answer those questions, Mr. Secretary. Then there's who gets out of the KT. from the point of view of the fact that this bill is completely vague. All the teachers working there working in vocational training, including teachers of public knowledge, so let's say, a Hungarian teacher, a history teacher, what will become of them? So those who teach in this kind of school also avoid the KJ. From the top? Then the extra freedom is reduced from 25 days to 20 days; it really takes a great deal of cynicism to make it look like a triumph. That's 50. In the section on qualification in the field of vocational education and training, this is also a complete blur. Let's just trust you guys to do it. You don't have to be afraid to accept the bill. Where do we put the comma? I don't know, and I know, and that's how we're gonna vote if we don't get an answer to that, but I don't have any illusions. Then why don't you tie the salary under the teacher's advance scheme to the minimum wage? It would be good to answer that because there would be a solution to the proposals that are trying to support this bill here, and it would be much more attractive if the money that is due, and now I have referred to it a few times, would be returned to teachers and trainers in this form. You're talking about Béralku in a state institution? So, hahaha, and I say that bitterly. Let's not joke. Was there anyone here who drafted this bill at a rural vocational school, a vocational school? They'll stand over there and beat the table demanding more wages? So, we're talking about illusions here. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] which I completely doubt is the realisation of, and then comes the rest. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-05-170	Thank you very much, Congressman Ander Balázs. I give the floor to Mr László Földi, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2019-11-05-171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, A major package of laws has now come before the House, regulating an area of which two important features make it a priority. These two important features are that vocational training must meet the interests of an ever-changing and even accelerating labour market, provide local responses to future global issues in the present, and have a fundamental impact on the lives of all Hungarian citizens directly or indirectly. Dear Parliament, As we know, in 2010 there was a major transformation in the vocational training system: the former secondary vocational schools have since been a vocational high school and vocational schools have been professional secondary schools. Since then, only nine and a half years have passed, but social, technological, legal and labour market changes have been at such a pace that it is necessary to rethink the system of vocational training. I would like to point out that this is not a Hungarian peculiarity, so it is certainly not a correction of the system we have so far, nor is it a mere harmonisation of legislation, and the legislators are facing similar challenges all over the world. What are these changes? First of all, the labour market now expects training institutions to release professionals with more advanced knowledge than ever before, and when I say that it is modern, I think about what employers think: this knowledge should be up-to-date and the holder should be able to update it continuously, autonomously, for life-long periods. It's all based on a technological change, which, in summing up, is called automation. Experts expect that many professions and jobs will cease due to robotisation in the coming decades, and that they will be replaced by ones that we may not even have a name for today, but tomorrow will be published in the job advertisements. According to a survey last year, 49 percent of Hungarian workers already perform automation activities mainly in manufacturing, mining, transport and storage. On the basis of forecasts, 24 percent of working hours will be filled with automated activity by 2030, and this will require a high degree of creativity, learning and flexibility from all employees, i.e. vocational training: instead of trained workers, we need professionals with high added value skills, people who are also taught the techniques and good practices of human cooperation, and who are confidently able to go through professions and jobs, as it is now a fundamental requirement. VET systems around the world are facing a major challenge: they need to prepare students for a labour market environment where automation has caused many of the jobs currently known to be lost, jobs are still difficult to imagine, and many of the remaining professions are undergoing substantial transformation. Therefore, the challenges of the age and the new millennium in the field of vocational training must be addressed in any way. But what are the challenges that T/7843 has presented to this House. Would you like to give me answers? The demographic situation makes vocational training institutions more attractive to both students and parents, as they see a perspective on the future. For example, when I was working at school in parentheses, children were alarmed at Cegléd by the fact that, if you do not study in primary school, you are going to the vocational school, to the Bem József Secondary School. I hope that by introducing the new law, these kinds of dilemmas will be completely eliminated, and there will be no such threat from parents to students. The bill provides an opportunity for teachers to receive a higher wage that is competitive or at least more competitive than the current one; this is the real reason why teachers will be employed under the Labour Code. The Dobbantó programme, mentioned by my partner, Győző Vinnai, offers access and opportunities to students who have failed in primary education institutions: they are going to a workshop school, where they can study part-times, which will allow them to be integrated into the labour market later on. In today's world, there is also a need for real incentives for young people, which can be an excellent opportunity to start a career, which can be an attainable goal for the student. The concept of a training loan will be introduced, but it is important to note that only success can be expected in the specific legislation, in detail, in the case of a well-developed programme. It should not be too difficult to use it, but it should indeed be in order to obtain training, and not make it impossible for the person who has used it and yet has left. [[18.40]] The bill also pays attention to relevant circumstances in detail, such as the issue of the mandatory Jubilee Prize in a new type of legal relationship and similar cases. One of the most important elements of the bill is that it allows the institutional system to respond more flexibly to labour market needs. What's been going on, please? They taught professions in vocational secondary schools and vocational trainings that they had just received, not according to the market. Accordingly, initial sector training is a new concept. It offers this opportunity to acquire basic competences, which can be useful even in the event of the emergence of later technologies. The list of professions has been drawn up in a narrower context, involving sectoral skills councils, so they are real, meet market needs and have social basis. Professional training based on it is another set of structures, the programme requirement of which is not defined in advance, which is published by the Minister after registration of the relevant professional training, so it is possible to adapt to market needs without changing legislation. However, it is important that the legal environment is constantly adapted to these, so that the relevant vocational training is not only registered but also used by the economy or public sector players. It would be very important, but the law does not specifically highlight community service. It should be taken into account that the Community service can play an important role in the fight against drop-out and how this role could be enhanced. At the moment, the teacher responsible for this is not required to receive a separate allowance, but his work contributes much to the development of local communities and is an important element in the fight against drop-out, as he raises awareness and leads out of the world of social media towards the real world. On behalf of the KDNP faction, I would like to indicate that we are initiating a discussion with the Secretary of State and the Ministry that would allow the community service to be included in this draft law in some way. I am convinced that students opting for vocational training will benefit, because while students will receive scholarships only in the absence of skills today, everyone will receive scholarships in the future, the degree of which depends on the results of the study. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of Fidesz-KDNP remains to give people jobs instead of aid and to achieve full employment, while our daily experience of increasing labour shortages. It is clear that a new modernisation of the vocational training system is needed in order to better serve a demand labour market. That is what the legislative package before us is about. This legislation builds on solid foundations. Economic growth is steady, unemployment, we know, has dropped dramatically, employment has increased and real wages have also increased. However, the shortage of professionals is an increasingly painful, burning problem, which is rooted in demand-driven, output-controlled, revised and complex knowledge-based vocational training. It is a change that has an unmistakable success indicator. Competitiveness will either increase or not, we will work to ensure that the former happens, because, as I said, this is in the far-reaching interest of all Hungarian citizens. Our priority and important goal is that young people are real, and I stress that they see a career goal in vocational training in Hungary. The economy is looking for quality professionals and can only be guaranteed by a quality, attractive vocational training in all respects. The time passed when industrial students spent a few years in school knowing that they would learn the profession at their first workplace. This is why we prefer five-year technician training, which will allow you to develop the mid-leading level and technical layer of the different industries in a few years. And I think it is very important to note that at one time there were two types of vocational training: on the one hand, industrial vocational training or vocational training for agricultural workers, and on the other hand, technical training. It was a very big mistake at the time when the technics school was terminated, eliminated, and the vocational high school came in instead, which was far from being able to play the role that the technicians had previously played. I'm very confident that the recovery, infiltrating technics system will bring back the kind of value that the technics have previously reported. Dear Parliament, There is a long list of arguments to support the need for changes, but I would like to point out that it is important to provide young Hungarians with career opportunities, it is important that we can create a modern learning and educational environment, the development of workshops and the constantly updated digital educational content, as well as the provision of up-to-date teaching knowledge. On this basis, our group supports the proposed bill, and I ask with great respect the other political groups of the Parliament. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-05-172	Thank you very much, Mr László Földi, Congressman. I now give the floor to Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2019-11-05-173	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I'm hearing some really shocking sentences here that I haven't heard in the last ten years, and I've been asking my fellow politicians here that you think they're enjoying themselves on the other side. These are the words of the knowledge society that you have been talking about a work-based society. Then they said, "Lifelong learning." Oh, my God. Or, for example, the 21st century. New knowledge is needed for technological development in the century. We haven't heard that from you in the last few years, and we're gonna find out tomorrow that you're gonna need it on admissions, that's gonna break up, but you're gonna have a very different opinion. I'm looking for a confession, and generally admitting sin relieves punishment. If it is up to me, it will not ease, but this bill itself is a confession, a proof of what incompetence, but with the greater vehemency and systematic destruction of vocational training in Hungary over the past nine years. Nine years of wasted time, and how many children have lost their chance! Today, the Chamber President Parragh, the spiritual father of the broken vocational training system, has acknowledged that the system he grudges is useless and untenable. I am very saddened to see that this material has missed the modest increase of the school's obligation to 17 years in comparison with its previous draft. It was in a previous version of this material before us, as it would be an obvious admission of the immeasurable damage and damage that the Orbán government has done during the past years in the course of education, even though a year would bring much closer the chances of professional qualifications to many children. Today, at the cost of some 100,000 child sacrifices, it has been proven that even the Hungarian economy does not need so-called single-use skilled workers, who are barely able to read or write, and who have little professional knowledge, but, as the material puts it, and you have just said, they need high-quality professionals. And Congressman Vinnai mentioned the players in the economy. How many times have the economic operators told you not to send half-alpha-beta children to the workshops? You only like to refer to the economy, but to hear what you're really asking for, you've failed. In order to be a high-quality professional, this training would require all that the Orbán regime systematically wiped out from the system: good basic skills, basic skills before professional training, radical increases in the theoretical base of the profession, theoretical education in Hungary, the safe acquisition of IT knowledge, without which today no ordinary car mechanic can experience, and not least the language knowledge needed not only in everyday work, since today even the instructions for using machines cannot be translated by students, especially today, which would allow daily professional development in the middle of the fourth industrial revolution, and even the multiple changes needed today, so the ability to learn has not been ensured by the system so far. [[18.50]] It has already been proven once that the renaming of institutions without radical changes in content and methods I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm- Even though we can rename the current gymnasiums as a technique, the knowledge base to which the student can access remains unchanged. This material does not reveal to us that there will be real profound changes and changes in content. It is also ridiculous to tempt students who enroll here to enter higher education without admission procedures. In Hungary, there has been no admissions for many years, only a high-level graduation and high-school score, and a mandatory language exam from 2020. Or we won't see it, will we, that tomorrow at the government meeting, as a confession, will finally erase that intention. However, the financial benefits offered by the draft to students can be more attractive. However, it is questionable whether the most needy young people have access to these financial incentives without proper funds. If, as a cure, only the restoration of the names of the institutions would appear in the already rotted vocational training, and the university without quasi-acceptance, parents and students will not choose this type of school more quickly, without real changes in content, and the shortage of professionals in the Hungarian economy is not only perpetuated, but is constantly growing. But we'll see, the bill promises a lot of things in many areas, we'll see if there's any real change, real change in content. I would also like to say that basic professions will be taught only in the school system, but there will be no restrictions in adult education, and that there will continue to be as many specializations and part-training as the labour market situation justifies. As I understand it, the new system coming up next year will stand on two feet: the basic trades that will be learned in the school system, i.e. the five-year technique and the three-year vocational school. These qualifications will provide a wide range of basic knowledge when there is real change in content. The other group consists of short-term professional qualifications providing more flexible frameworks and providing special skills, which can only be acquired in adult education. Then we ask: as a third level of training, will company-based, short-cycle corporate training continue to be maintained, which is also not limited by anyone? So that's a question. And no one's going to check their professional standards, by the way? So we understand that there's gonna be a bunch of them unlimited? Changing the relationship between vocational education and training teachers is also an important issue here. The biggest dilemma for us and the trade unions is that in vocational training three well-defined teachers with different tasks deal with children. I hope you know that. There are teachers of public knowledge, there are teachers of professional theoretical knowledge and instructors, who primarily provide practical training for children in the practice of the profession. It is a common requirement for students to have pedagogical qualifications and qualifications appropriate to their age characteristics. It is a fact that, due to working conditions, structural changes in vocational training and, not least, the current economic expansion, the least qualified and motivated teachers are currently present among those working in vocational training. It is questionable, however, that if today's civil servants become workers subject to the Labour Code while remaining state employees, what financial incentive will enable vocational training centres to employ a more qualified workforce. We do not see the promises of government promise and strong question marks and the basis for reality. It is clear that the 35 billion waved will not be enough to bring satisfaction to all employees. The current amendment of the law does not say that the state is seeking to compensate for the small safety of the civil servant relationship in some way, such as a career model in vocational training, which would be similar to the pedagogical career model and career development system, from which teachers now fall out, and where, due to the break of the career, it is highly questionable that they will ever be able to fit back if necessary. In other words, will the crossing be closed in the case of public education and vocational training personnel? 'Cause we think it is. We have general question marks, and I'd rather ask questions here. Do you think a year is enough to make a makeover? After all this time, you can't even break down the current system, let alone rebuild all the damage you've done in the last nine years. It is also a big question: what is real change and what is only the renaming of the present content and form. We have concerns about this, as well as the separation of the so-called professional training list by basic and adult training professions. Will the first leg, in school training, finally increase the proportion of the necessary theoretical training, in order to be reasonable? Because it's the basis of everything. The basic skills, skills, writing, reading, counting that should be learned in primary school and after that in catching up, where will the new system be provided or replaced with children? This is the starting point for a good vocational training system. One of the main questions is: where are the theoretical and practical professionals who are dramatically lacking in vocational training, who are planning to kick out the little security they have so far in spite of questionable financial promises? They could also increase the benefits of civil servants, say, with a special vocational training allowance, without taking away the security of public employment. We also ask you that it must be a good idea for you to lay down in the law so that churches can continue to have a prominent role in vocational training. For thirty years, churches have been able to do their part in vocational training, but it can be seen that they have little control over this type of school and respect for the exception. And even that particular colping system has been very little successfully introduced in our country. Well, I could even say that it's even easier to say that the so-called school system is averse to churches. However, in order to re-enhance workers' interests, I would like to draw this attention here, since we are preparing these children for the world of work, as laid down in the 1993 Public Education Act at the time of the Antall Government, it would be worth starting a fight again for a number of reasons. Let me finally have time to remind you and Hungarian society of one thing. Since vocational training has been part of the education system in an organised form, it has not been possible to predict with certainty how the professional needs of the coming years will develop. The economic players are able to express only current needs, although, as I mentioned earlier, they have already seen the need to strengthen children's basic abilities in a rapidly changing modern world as a result of technological developments. It was a very big mistake to separate from public education, to break up vocational training. These children need long-term knowledge, not current knowledge for a year. By the time they come out of the school bench, the knowledge they have learned there may be beyond reality. Therefore, it is our responsibility and duty to provide our children with certain theoretical knowledge and basic professional knowledge that can be used not only at the end of their studies, but also, if necessary, during career changes for a lifetime. This is particularly important in a economy such as the Hungarian economy, where the economic structure, because of the low added value, is not stable. Thank you for listening.
u2019-11-05-174	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi. I now give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2019-11-05-175	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State said that a dimensional leap, a dimensional shift in vocational training is taking place. Well, so many dimensional leaps for Millennium Falcon would be a lot more than what happened in vocational training over the past decade. Vocational training jumps to the left, can't calm down for a moment, and there's no way for a type of development work to take place, which would otherwise be essential in education and training. [[19.00]] I myself was impressed by the fact that my fellow Members and State Secretary had admired the knowledge-based society and that the world was modernising, and perhaps not the right idea, as they thought a few years ago, was to push students into a demented vocational training instead of training. This is certainly a welcome and positive change, but it does not change the fact that there is still a lack of concept, a clear vision, the kind of idea where you would see what will happen in five to ten to twenty years' time, because vocational training is worth developing and changing for such a period, the previous VET development programmes were such a time frame, honourable Members. How are the timelines now? In 2013-14 there was still training in vocational school and vocational secondary school, since 2016-2017 it was a vocational high school, vocational secondary school and vocational school form, and it was renamed as such. Now we have another proposal, and now we have another school title. And we're just talking about the school's name, so we haven't said a word about the content. How should society, the parent, who is looking for a school for his child, or the employer, who would like to decide what kind of employee to hire in this system if it is not even possible to know what name a school runs in which year? What's positive about this bill, let's talk about it. It won't be much. Positive in this bill is the direction of the reform of the school system. In any case, the technique, the five-year, uniform-functioning type of institution giving both graduation and vocational training, can be seen as a step forward, in essence, I can also say that in terms of its direction it will return to the former vocational school logic. Of course, we don't see the rules of detail. The whole regulation, and I will have to say this more often, is one of the weakest points in the world that two very important things are not visible. There is no correlation with the Public Education Act, it will simply be incomprehensible to the institutions in a number of cases that they must operate under the Public Education Act or the Vocational Education Act. We didn't get the amendment to the Public Education Act that would otherwise fix this world. On the other hand, the government has solved with the elegant solution that it has no idea what it wants to do with vocational training on a lot of issues, that it has given itself authority to prepare a series of government regulations, almost all the relevant issues are contained in government regulations. There are a lot of things that the Secretary of State and our pro-government fellow Members have talked about, but we should believe them, because otherwise, they are essentially not in the law. These are in the explanatory memorandum, they are in your communication panels, and let us hope that such government decisions are actually being made, but we do not know this in advance, especially in such matters. Returning to the positive, we certainly support and think it is a good idea that this legislation strengthens the type of institution that provides professional and general training. But we don't know what the detailed operating rules of this will be. We don't know when to apply a public education law, what program it will be based on, what value it will give you, whether it will give you a full degree, or just something that will allow you to study professionally. You're saying here, Congressman, that it might also be good to go to college without admission. That's great, but how are they gonna count these rules? So there is a series of uncertainty about this. It is also to be welcomed that it is said here, and says the law, that we approve that the first year should be a sectoral type of training. This is what we called when the vocational training system had the systemic character of a basic training course, right, it was the basic vocational training earlier in the first to second grade. But we have to say that this is a half measure, because if we already acknowledge the need for this type of foundation, then we should also acknowledge that the three-year, just called vocational school, vocational school, is a bad idea. Children who are already underprivileged in vocational training, such as the majority of children who come into this type of institution, cannot be caught up in three years, based on their vocational training and provided with appropriate and useful skills. They introduce a new concept, this part-training has been like this before, but it meant something completely different, which is being introduced here as basic training, as I understand it, they are trying to reduce early school leaving through this. Congressman resented that I was a little irritated, but the fact is that the fundamental error of the Bridge programme is not being corrected in this matter, it is true that he is giving a worthless training without having the right foundations for students. Unfortunately, in this way, the workshop school as a second chance school, which is very important and a very good idea, by the way, will also be inoperative. Because if it doesn't involve a type of training where the student can catch up and don't give you a degree that can be used, it doesn't make any sense, unfortunately it will be a babysitter just as it did with the Bridge program. The general problem with this bill is that it wants to separate vocational training and public education so cramped that in a lot of cases, the child falls out of the gap between the two. I understand that you transferred from one ministry to another ministry these previous changes have always been because it was a change of minister, it got here, it got there, it was a new secretary of state, it was a new minister, everyone self-fulfilled in it. I understand that, but what is happening in this proposal is that practically the situation of students, the situation of students and the situation of workers also writes this bill becomes rather confusing in this bill. There is no single and clear legal relationship that will settle the status of these students, and that will enable them to get into such madness that, for example, there is only a five-day working week in basic education classes, which means that it is possible to have a longer working week in the other grades, so that practical training is organised for students between 6:00 a.m. and 22:00 p.m. Okay, in the case of minors, eight o'clock in the evening. The very benevolent thing, really, is that only between 6:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. can be organized, and really there can only be seven hours a day and not eight. So I have to say that this regulation is particularly anti-childish, specifically subjugating the interests of children to a type of economic and industrial interest that I believe is not in the interest of a significant part of the economy. This bill opens the door wide to the exploitation and exploitation of students, and I have nothing else to say. There is no substantial protection for students in this system, there is no clear legal relationship, and there are no guarantees that guarantee that these partially childhood or larger children would otherwise be treated fairly by this system. If somewhere it's true that this bill is a dimensional leap to nothing, then it's the status of teachers. More specifically, the status of teachers and educators. Basically, there's one thing this law says, that they're not subject to any rules. He says, Mr. Secretary, that he's opening the door to an individual wage deal. It will be a very cool wage deal, where the teacher will have to negotiate with the head of the vocational training centre or the minister, or I don't know who with whom, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, he will have to negotiate with the teacher. Because, by the way, there is a system of civil servants, honourable Members, that is why this system works, so that, by the way, for the people working for the public, there is a predictable guarantee system. That's why a separate pedagogical career model has been introduced, which we have often expressed in our opinion about the flaws of this system, but the fact that there is one is very appropriate. It is not possible to make regular workers in education and, where appropriate, in vocational training. You can't say you're gonna solve your problems in a system where the institution doesn't even have a wage frame to manage, but the center has some kind of budget. We do not know on what basis, because otherwise there is no normative funding, it will also be removed from the bill, but some budget will be set by the high government, and teachers and educators will resolve the wage deal within the framework of this. When you have not been able to conduct normal wage negotiations at sectoral level for nine years; when you have not spoken to teachers' unions for nine years; when you are unable to conclude a wage agreement; you are unable not to cheat teachers over and over again, or break agreements, in this situation, when you are ignoring teachers' unions, the individual educator or educator should continue a wage deal. [[19.10]] I must say that this is a degree of cynicism that is absolutely amazing and outrageous. You want to put an end to all protections over teachers and teachers working in vocational training. And it's great that they put honey on the string for the raise. Give me the raise. The congresswoman said very well: leave them in the pay table, and if you think that teachers working in vocational training should be paid better than teachers working outside of vocational training, give them a bonus. The right solution, of course, is not this. The good solution would have been to accept in the budgetary debate the proposal submitted by several opposition representatives, including the Democratic Coalition, to return the money that was stolen from the pay table and from teachers compared to promises. It was said that the minimum wage would be the basis for the pay table when the career model was introduced, which was abolished the following year. We have also submitted proposals for this, others have submitted proposals, all of which have been voted out. Now they're gonna give something back, but in return, they're gonna take away the rest of the safety of teachers and teachers. This will not improve the otherwise catastrophic employment situation; it will not help vocational training. In conclusion, my fellow Members, I can say that this law embodies good thinking in its aims and in certain elements. From the point of view, it is far better than many of their other educational legislation, not to achieve bad goals by bad means, but to serve good goals. I'll take that. However, this bill, because of the total vulnerability of vocational training institutions, did not go into this for a long time, but this maintenance system makes it impossible for institutional autonomy and professional work to prevail as much as possible. Because churches are once again exempt from all the rules, churches, children in church institutions are once again privileged to children in public institutions because they eliminate the protection of teachers, and because they eliminate the protection of children and put them in an impossible position, this bill is completely unacceptable. It's not hopeless and it's not inexcusable. We will put forward amendments, perhaps together with other opposition colleagues, which will significantly improve this bill. But the really good solution would be to take the time, to appreciate those working in vocational training so much that they would not try to settle the situation of vocational training with another law adopted in November and which will enter into force in January. They would take the time to have a public and fair social debate. The time would be spent on a substantive professional policy debate here and in Parliament, and then a bill would be put in place that really provides meaningful progress and predictable frameworks for vocational training for decades. Today, this is the only way to help the otherwise disastrous situation of vocational training. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-05-176	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Arató. I give the floor to Krisztina Hohn, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2019-11-05-177	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I think it is very important that, before I give you a detailed opinion, I should say that we need to help teachers emotionally, because there are a lot of burned-out teachers, a lot of people feel that they are at the mercy of the system, that they are at the mercy of a kind of dictatorial system, which of course teachers do not like. The teachers' union has been looking for us, as have the other opposition parties, to try to interpret their views, as they feel that they are now excluded from this discussion. I think that trade unions are more honest with opposition parties than they are with the ruling party, because they are not afraid of us, and they dare tell us what they think, and we will listen to them. Believe me, as weird as it is, it's true. [[Dr. Winner Vinnai: We're scary, they don't dare tell us! Ander Balázs: They're really scared, you have to admit that! The president's ringing the bell.]] Unfortunately, they're scared. Maybe not from you personally, I'll accept that, but some people are afraid of, believe me, they said so themselves. So it's not an out of the blue thing, it's true. [[Dr. Winner Vinnai: Sure.]] It is therefore essential to maintain the status of civil servants employed in public institutions. I've heard a lot of people say that in front of me, and I'm gonna tell you that, in case it seems more emphatic. We have already submitted many times to the minimum wage for civil servants, but we will do so a few more times in case they are accepted, since the benefits that can be granted are far from the statutory obligations. You can give it to me. I worked in the local government, and I know very well that the municipalities and state companies do not like to give the things that can be given. Not to mention other standards that provide employment security, possible reasons for absolution. While according to the Labour Code, it is enough for the employer to provide a valid and reasonable justification for the termination of the contract, the Kjt. the period of notice and the period of notice set out in Annex Mt. There is a difference between sky and earth, according to the notice period. The severance pay is also less in the labor code than in the Kjt. What you can see is that the government is actually trying to solve the wage increase that it is saying by shifting funds, which is not a solution, but will lead to unmanageable tensions in the workplace and vulnerability among those affected. This draft law is a highly gown, a highly professionally low-quality text made by, I take the risk, not by qualified lawyers. The bill may bring an uncertain increase in wages, but there is no legal guarantee of further wage increases. Rather, a provision should be amended to ensure that teachers who are not qualified are placed directly in the teacher's grade I and that salaries under the teacher's progression system are re-linked to the minimum wage, as I have already mentioned. In this case, there would indeed be a real wage increase and there would not be the wage tension I have already mentioned. The state respects religious communities, religious and philosophical commitment, and ensures the participation of religious communities in vocational training by means of specific regulations in this regard, with which there is nothing wrong, but it should be stipulated that the religious community cannot acquire exclusive rights to education of a profession or receive particularly large powers. An expert's opinion, I quote, is that the professional list has been reduced from 240 to 176. As a result, so-called partial qualifications have ceased. For example, there will be carpentry training, before that, for example, furniture table, wood toy maker and the rest. These were primarily positive for SNI students, as if they had completed a part-training course, the better performers had reached a higher level and could have done so. Now they can do this in four years, but there is serious concern that many people will not be able to keep up with this pace and may fall out of the system. But the professional list might even be good, because there were a lot of OKJ professions with a lot of parallels. At the same time, there is a problem of not being familiar with the master plans, so the instructors have no idea how realistic they are about the knowledge of each profession, since there are professions for which the instructors should be trained. For example, there will be training in a given institution where complete professional subjects should be taught in English. Who's gonna do this? The English teachers who, let's say, have no idea about the profession, or the professionals who aren't so perfect in English? The school year consists of a five - day teaching week, and Saturday, Sunday, and public holidays are uneducated rest days. This is not in line with the provisions of the Labour Code, the public holiday is partly separate from the rest days in the Labour Code. Saturday, Sunday, and public holidays are uneducated rest days. This can not be interpreted so easily because it blurs the rest day and the public holiday. An employee of a vocational training institution shall have an employment relationship or an assignment. Yes, this is also a big problem, because it would apply to a person who teaches in all vocational training institutions in the legislation. Another unacceptable element is that employment under the contract would not be restricted by the law. [[19.20]] The staff member of the vocational training institution shall be entitled to the salary specified in the contract of employment. The salary shall be determined in such a way that it is adapted to the monthly income available by those who hold a similar job. The law does not contain any automaticism regarding the increase in wages, and it is clear that all stakeholders will be placed in adverse wage bargaining positions. The Act provides as a discount that the employee of the vocational training institution is entitled to 20 working days' additional leave each calendar year. He's been 25 so far, now it's falling, but it still seems like a special good thing. The law requires that the instructor undergoes at least 60 hours of training every four years, so that the 120 hours of compulsory training required for seven years will be changed to at least 60 hours per four years. The rating system would be replaced by a three-yearly evaluation by the Director, but this is not yet known due to the lack of knowledge of the implementing regulation. We believe that instead the whole pedagogical qualification system should be transformed. A vocational training contract may be terminated by mutual agreement with the date, termination or immediate termination indicated in the common agreement. Based on these considerations, it is clear that we can expect significantly less than the exemption period provided for in Kjt. Thus, those concerned will also be deprived of half the absentee fee when the public servant is exempted from the obligation to work. The Director-General or his deputy, the Chancellor and other non-educated employees of the vocational training centre working with the economic manager or the vocational training centre shall have an employment relationship with the vocational training centre. We believe that this is an unacceptable provision because employment in the employment relationship or in the contract of assignment is unjustified. The employment relationship results in much more vulnerability than the public employment relationship, as many have already said. Another disadvantage is that the employees of the contract will not be full members of the teaching community, since they will only work with a contract of assignment. I think I've said a lot of things, but I really don't want to repeat what everyone else said to me until I'm bored. I think it can be seen that the opposition's position is broadly uniform, because we have all, at least so far, highlighted the same problems from this law. The amendments will, of course, be made and we hope that they will at least think about it before they are swept down at committee level. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-05-178	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Hohn Krisztina. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to the first independent Member, Mr Szabó Szabolcs.
u2019-11-05-179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I decided to build my comment by making three statements and then explain in more detail how I justify these allegations. My first statement would be that I spend my second term here in Parliament, of course I have been following what is happening in education policy for many years, but I can definitely say that since I am here as a Member of Parliament, this is the first presentation in the field of education policy that I can say is clearly a thoughtful concept, and even in its directions I can understand why they are doing this. I can't even say that the direction is wrong, and I would even say that in itself the direction is considered to be good, so conceptually, I think the direction is basically fine. I note in parentheses, of course, I do not want to take my comment in this direction, that this does not excuse the Fidesz from what has been done in recent years, because it is an admission that the last nine years have not been in the right direction. They were always heading in a new direction, and, living with Hofi, they've gone in a new direction so many times that they've come up against themselves now, but now at least we're going in the right direction. So that's my first statement. My second statement is that the concept is good, I think the direction is good, but there are some fundamental errors that I think should be corrected at this stage of the debate, and even part of my statement is that I think that the negotiation should be suspended before the start of the detailed debate. Why do I say that? I consider it a fundamental mistake that there was no meaningful social and professional consultation. I have great respect for the Deputy State Secretary, who was certainly involved in this detailed work, I am thinking of Gábor Pölöskei, but she said that there will be a social debate about this when the law is passed. This does not correspond to the spirit of the law. Unfortunately, we know that education policy is particularly an area where it is appropriate to talk this through and introduce it in such a way that everyone can feel it as their own, and that there really are many elements in it that everyone can view as their own. This is the second important element of my statement that I do not think it is a good situation to find out at the beginning of the summer how such an independent vocational training law is being prepared, that it was accidentally said at a professional conversation where I was there, as a matter of fact, and we all looked at each other wondering if there would be a separate law now? It would also have been good to keep this public as part of social and professional consultation. And I don't think it's good that I had to get to know him as a quasi-influenced substance, as a Member of Parliament, the preliminary version of this. But the point is, I don't feel like it, but the profession didn't know that much of it, and now I'm talking about the pedagogical society or the students, and I'm not really talking about parents, because they certainly didn't know that. On the other hand, Gergely Arató is very right in that, and I would also like to confirm that it is also a very important flaw in this bill, and I believe that his trial should be suspended because it remains closely linked to Nkt., the national law on public education. Until we know how they want to change it, many of the elements of this are incomprehensible, so I cannot give a meaningful opinion about it. I know exactly how the Nkt is made at the EMMI. I've heard certain elements of the rumor level, but I didn't see any text written, ergo I can't really put together and match the two. Therefore, I think it would be ideal for us to wait and discuss both simultaneously in parallel. That's how we get to the third statement. I wouldn't really talk about this third one in detail, because I feel a little unworthy, but I would say, not that I mention it, but that I feel unworthy of the situation. That we are at the moment witnessing the fight between the EMMI and the ITM, and in this education policy is a kind of vulnerable field. As we can see, Mr. Secretary of State was just sitting across from him, and now he's sitting here, and so the various elements are constantly leaking through. I've heard of the OH coming over soon and all sorts of rumors. The only problem is that this kind of rivalry leads, for example, to the fact that Nkt.-modification is not here together and this law, and here we are just looking at this tension between the two ministries. So unfortunately, this is no longer a struggle of competence within the government, because otherwise I would not talk about it, but this is what education is being provided to in a sense. I suggest that you close it very quickly, shape your position, who is the winner, declare it, and then continue this work in substance. I would explain these three statements in more detail, or perhaps only the first two in substance, because I say that this third one is that I can only ask you to close this competition or fight within the government. On the one hand, why do I think that in itself the direction, the concept is good and eligible? We can clearly see that no one has denied or even said on the opposition side that there is a big problem in the labour market; if only someone at home wanted to do, for example, any plumbing or covering work, his experience is that he can't find a professional, at most people who seem to have taken tiles in their hands for the first time in their lives, but he claims to be a cover. There are many components to this, we all know what's behind it, but the fact is, there are not enough professionals. [[19.30]] Unfortunately, the concepts so far have not responded well. Now it seems to me strongly that there is a definite consensus between us that there are few good professionals. We need to look for a system of education in vocational training that will ensure us in the long term that there are many and good quality professionals. I think this proposal responds well, because, on the one hand, they have finally realised what we always say, that pedagogical society should be motivated, encouraged, and given regular pay. That's what everyone was talking about. Yes, but as my fellow Members have said, it is not okay for me to highlight 32 thousand of the teachers, or let us say that they are teachers, because it is better to look at them in vocational training, so I will highlight 32,000 teachers and give them a higher wage. My trick is to highlight it from the current workbook environment, and it will not be the pay table that applies to it, but they will deal with it formally with such a personal deal, although they will obviously from the Centre tell you what he wants to ask for in this individual deal, in some regulation, I think, because there is no other way to solve it, because there are no 32 thousand people standing in line at Kossuth Square, and they cannot negotiate with the Secretary of State individually, while on the other hand there are about three times as many teachers remaining in the current public employee pay table. I understand the essence of the concept that there is no money to give this raise to everyone. It's a shame we don't have any, minus a few stadiums, and I probably would, but I don't want to take the debate in this direction right now. Just imagine the situation that this is being introduced. What's gonna happen? Here in Kossuth Square, the others will be standing outside, who will not be transferred to this higher wage category, but will remain teachers of the public, they will go out and demand and strike, because they have this in their hands. What will be the result? They'll have to raise their wages. Now, in two years' time, let's say, we're gonna keep you on the same salary for two different groups of teachers in a completely different labour law environment. One is a public servant, the other is a normal employee, applied according to the Labour Code. One is paid to overwork normally, the other is not paid, but it is subject to the rules of protection applicable to civil servants. So what are we gonna do there? There's nothing else you can do, and then you have to undo the whole thing, keep the higher pay, and one of them has to decide which category we're going to transfer everyone to. So I think it's time to decide which one to be, whether to remain civil servants or not, but then everyone in the country should be like this, and the raised wages should be given to everyone. There's no other way to do this right. They're bad for themselves, I think, because they put the tension in the system for a year or two in advance, because it's going to cause wage tension, it's a fact, it can't be denied, unfortunately, that's the case. On the other hand, this concept is a good direction in terms of the fact that students are finally not being forced to go into vocational training by administrative means, but, as Mr Vinnai said, with a performance-based scholarship system and an increased Apáczai scholarship system for disadvantaged people, I really see from this system that they know effectively. So not like Parragh tried to do this before, even through fire and water, but I'm gonna push the kid over there. Oh, his, by the way, at home with him in German, speaking English, and then he goes abroad to study, but the Hungarian child goes there. No. This concept completely breaks up, and it says that we really encourage it. That is why I say that the concept can also be agreed on in this respect. It is clear that indeed, the dropout is great in this system. Mr Vinnai also said very frankly that it is around 11.5 percent, which is already high in terms of EU comparisons, because in recent years it has decreased to around 10 percent in the EU, and we have grown from 10 to 11.5 that this is problematic. Indeed, the VET Bridge system has not fulfilled its expectations. This Dobbantó program, which is included in it, is very narrowly described, really in a few sentences, I would say that it may even be a good direction, because it mentions the development of basic competences in the text, and I can agree with that, but we do not see any details. So I'm gonna say here that I think the principle is good, but the details are definitely not worked out here. I also think that this should be discussed thoroughly at this stage of the debate. On the other hand, this proposal is good because I value it by breaking off with the earlier concept that has led to a very drastic reintegration of public knowledge in vocational training. Now I appreciate this by raising the weight of public knowledge in vocational training. This is in connection with the fact that the institutional system that is now being established, which is now being cleaned up, so that there will be a type of vocational training institution and a technique in the system, it will also give it back well, especially if the technique with its enhanced public knowledge objects will give you the opportunity to be able to easily and easily get from the technique even to higher education, because in the current system you will not be able to do so in the vocational school, and not only because you cannot comply with the language examination requirement, but there is a problem with the majority of public knowledge objects. We were pleased to hear today that the ITM is supposed to submit tomorrow a proposal that the language examination requirement will be postponed. We've been asking for this for years, and now we're glad that we could at least agree on this at the end, and then we'll read the details tomorrow. There's one thing I don't understand about the institutional system, so I'd like to ask you about that. If I understand what I've heard and what I've read in this bill, then there will be institutions in the future that will be high school and vocational school at the same time. How are they gonna solve this, which law is gonna apply to them, how is the salary going to happen in a high school and vocational school? These are the questions Nkt asked. I will not be able to interpret it without submitting it, which is why I would be interested in what will happen to the institutions providing such mixed training. What are the main flaws? I have mentioned that this rapid introduction is not good, nor is it presented, nor is it supposed to come into force as of 1 January. So I would suggest that at least half a year of the law's entry into force be postponed. This would, of course, result in the fact that this new system could not be put into effect from the next academic year, but it would probably have to be pushed away by a school year. There is a problem with wages, but that's what I'm talking about, it's the elimination of the civil servant shell in this form. It's really weird how he directs the textbook selection. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: Article 99 states that the educator is free to choose from the textbooks, and Article 99 states that the teacher is free to choose from the textbooks. And it says, "Yeah, two of them." This isn't right. So there are a lot of mistakes in that, I think, that should be handled. Let's just stop for a little while, wait for the NKt amendment, discuss it together, and then I think we can find a way to be eligible from all sides. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the lines of DK, MSZP and LMP.]]
u2019-11-05-180	Thank you very much, Congressman Szabó Szabolcs. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to the Slovak ethnic advocate Antal Paulik, who describes the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates it into Hungarian.
u2019-11-05-181	-akujem za slovo, pan predseda! Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Vážený pán predseda, vážený poslanci, Vážený pán štátny tajomnik! Dame the panic! Vo svojom príhovore informujem Vás o stanovisku Výboru národností Ma.arska, ktoré sme si vytvorili na zasadnutí národnostného výboru 4. novembra k návrhu zákona číslo T/7843. o odbornom školstve. Honourable Members, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and Gentlemen, As the spokesperson requested by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I would like to briefly present to you the T/7843. The opinion of our committee on the draft Act on Vocational Education and Training was presented at its meeting on 4 November. I would like to point out that it was expected that this draft would trigger a relatively sharp professional and professional debate in the House. If the opinion drawn up by our committee coincides, at times, with certain opinions expressed, this does not mean that we intend to commit to a political side. We have mentioned and included in writing comments based solely on national policy considerations. [[19.40]] Education is a key area for the survival of Hungarian ethnicities and for the transmission and care of their language and culture. In particular, in addition to kindergarten education and higher education, T/7843, which was summarised earlier under the heading of public education, cannot be sufficiently emphasised. The importance of a period of education and training divided into public education and vocational training. The current Public Education Act still contains uniform guarantee elements to strengthen ethnic cultural autonomy in this area. The one we've just discussed, T/7843. The majority of these are not included in the legislative proposal, so we considered it important to review the current draft bill thoroughly. It is true that today we are only aware of an institution dealing with vocational training, which operates on the basis of a German ethnic education system, but there were previously ethnic vocational training places that provided vocational training on the basis of Slovak, Croatian and Serbian nationality programmes, so it cannot be ruled out that the number of such ethnic institutions will also change in the future. Not to mention that the number of institutions specifically providing training for Roma young people is significantly higher, but the nationality content of the education in these schools is not necessarily uniform. This also justifies the interest of the nationality committee in the draft law before us. Dear House, The 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Law 19. In addition to other forms of education, ethnic communities have the right, within the meaning of point (b) of Article 4 of the Treaty, to education and training in vocational schools and vocational schools of nationalities. The law is 23. According to § (1) of the Act on Public Education, the structure and content of educational activities must be defined in order to enforce educational and educational interests corresponding to the cultural autonomy of nationalities. According to the opinion of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, the draft law under discussion changes substantially and defines the structure and content of vocational training in one of the areas of previous public education, according to the current proposal. For this reason, the Committee proposes that the national minority authorities also be consulted by the national authorities on the draft law. The 2011 CXC in force. In the field of public education, the National Public Education Act grants national authorities the right to agree or to comment on a number of issues. The legislation is 83. § (3) to (4) and [[4/a]] In accordance with paragraphs 4 and 4 (a) of this Article, in the case of an institution participating in ethnic education, in the absence of a possible right of agreement, it is necessary to seek the opinion of the regionally competent national government in relation to the termination, reorganisation, change of tasks and establishment of its name. [[4/a]] In accordance with paragraph 1, that right of opinion shall also be conferred on the municipal self-government, failing which, the national minority self-government, in relation to the mandate and the revocation of the mandate of the head of the institution involved in the education of nationality. These guarantee rules are not included in the present proposal, which our committee cannot agree with and agree on these provisions in the last amendment of the Public Education Act. Following our general comments, we propose a few additional points for the rapporteur to consider. The draft law before us contains the right of establishment of minority self-governments in vocational training institutions. At the same time, as a public foundation is the maintenance of the single multi-purpose minority institution currently operating, which also provides vocational training, we propose the 22nd draft. § (1) to extend the list of types of organisations entitled to be founded with the public foundation or, where appropriate, with the nationality public foundation. The bill is 112. §2 of the Act provides for State aid for vocational training. This paragraph also provides for a high level of support for church maintainers. In view of the fact that the nationality law is 26. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the public education institution operated by national ethnic authorities is financed in the same way as the rules applicable to church legal persons carrying out public education tasks, and we recommend that this be reflected in the present bill. According to the nationality committee, the part of the bill relating to the multi-purpose vocational training institution and their registration is not in sync with the 2011 CXC on national public education. Law 20 on multipurpose public education institutions § 21 on paragraphs 1 to 5 and on the registration of public education institutions. § (1) to (2). That is why, in our opinion, the draft law is 18. Article 20 of the Public Education Act. § ( 1) to (5) in the same way as to the organisational framework under which a multi-purpose vocational training institution may operate, or at least to point out that the regulation of the Public Education Act also applies to multi-purpose institutions carrying out vocational training. Furthermore, the draft law submitted does not contain any specifics that, in the case of a multi-purpose public education and vocational training institution, the operating licence is thus issued by the public education law by the district office of the government office or by the State Administration of Vocational Education and Training as defined in the draft Vocational Training Act, or distributed according to the powers of public education and vocational training. In our view, the regulation of the draft law is not in sync with the 2011 CXCV on public finances. Act No 368/2011 on the implementation and enforcement of the Act No 368/2011. the government decree that the public education and vocational training institution maintained by the national authorities is a local or national minority government budgetary body, and therefore the State is responsible for the registration of herd-books. We also recommend that this conflict be lifted in the draft. In addition to our comments on nationality, I would also like to describe some general aspects of the regulation of vocational training as a whole that were raised at the meeting of the Nationality Committee on 4 November. Most of these are organisational issues, the legislation of which is not entirely clear to us. For example, it is a question of conducting an exam. According to the draft, from 2026 only accredited examination places can organise exams. It is not clear that accreditation or only vocational training centres will be able to operate accredited examination places before each of the current schools. Compliance with the need for daily physical education on professional theoretical or practical training days is also not consistent. Similarly, the difference or lack of a teacher-educator is vague, especially in the application of the current educational attainment system. The relationship between the vocational training centre and the school providing public education and the issue of student status have not been clearly defined. The main issues are the participation of students with employment contracts in vocational school programmes. Dear House, To sum up, the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary has obviously expressed its comments primarily on the rights of nationality currently granted by the Nationalities and Public Education Act. In our view, the clarification of the problems or issues that we have just raised can improve the quality of the draft law submitted. .akujem Vám za posornosť! Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-11-05-182	Thank you very much, Mr Antal Paulik. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2019-11-05-183	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Thank you for the floor. I would just like to respond to what has been said so far in the debate with a few sentences. Firstly, we thank the speaker for his comments. The detailed debate, I think, is not necessary here, but it is still possible to say that national authorities can continue to set up vocational training institutions, as before, and can continue to operate on the basis of their specific rules. As has been the case so far, we will continue to provide these institutions with our full support, as they are an important part of the system of vocational training in Hungary, such as the establishment and operation of multi-purpose institutions. Of course, certain detailed rules will be included in the implementing regulation. Basically, in terms of the regulatory direction, we intend to continue to operate in accordance with the rules of the Public Education Act, and the debate or other comments on this subject during the detailed debate, I think that we can discuss and examine it in detail. [[19.50]] The fact is that we also thank Mr Szabolcs Szabó for his positive confirmation, as his claim that this is a good proposal and a good concept strengthens us. Thank you for these sentences. But let me assure you, first of all, that there is no competence dispute between the ITM and the EMMI. We can see that the Secretary of State has come and the Education Office remains. So this type of debate and this type of disagreement between the wallets, of course, is not. In contrast, close cooperation is more a feature of our government's operation. What is worth noting about your suggestions and comments is that there has been a significant debate and countless discussions on the Vocational Training 4.0 strategy. The imagery of this is the law that lies before the National Assembly. I believe that we have not caused a serious surprise to any actor who has actively participated in social consultations and professional consultations that preceded the preparation of the bill. I mean, there's been a meeting with the unions. In several speeches, it was said that trade unions had not been consulted or had not been properly consulted, or that trade unions were afraid of the government; even such sentences had been said. The truth is, as many union leaders as I've met, I can tell you a lot of things, but I'm pretty sure they'd be afraid of the government. They don't seem to have any fear, and I think they're quite honest about their opinions on each issue. This has also been the case in the last few days with regard to vocational training. Although the Congresswoman is no longer here to refer to the glove of the legal text, I must protect our colleagues here; I think that this is a high-quality legislative package. Of course, all legislation can be improved, then we look forward to comments and amendments. Every Member has and is encouraged to do so, but I believe that our colleagues have done excellent and fast work and that a clear, transparent and readable piece of legislation has come before this House. Allow me also to respond to what was said by Mrs Kunhalmi and Mr Arató. It is always joyful when socialist and former socialist Members express their views on educational issues and issues related to the competitiveness of the economy. The fact is that, if we look at the facts, we can see that during socialist governance, the funds for education are decreasing and under Fidesz-KDNP, and under Fidesz-KDNP, we can also see that the economy is falling under socialist governance, and under Fidesz-KDNP, it is growing. I think this is a good starting point for the proposal that we have here. Moreover, we can see that the labour market environment has changed. We can see that, while the labour market was previously characterised by supply, it is now characterised by demand. Again, it is unknown to left-wing governments that there is a shortage of labour, not unemployment. In this changed environment, we need to create and develop a vocational training system that is able to handle this situation and respond to the current challenges. It is therefore necessary to further develop and further strengthen vocational training. That is what this proposal, which is now before the Parliament, is about. Significant comments were also made. I think it's worth talking about with a few sentences. For example, it has been said that for companies, there is no regulation in the case of corporate internal training. Because we believe in bureaucracy, and we do not want unnecessary bureaucracy on companies. In addition, there is a need to endow their own employees with changing knowledge and changing skills, which is faster than a bureaucracy can track it. We therefore believe that it is necessary to break down red tape in this area and to give companies more freedom to provide the necessary training for their employees. It also shows that we are creating a clear system, where each actor has a role and a role to play. I would also like to mention in a few sentences what has been said about the pedagogical career path, what will become of the teacher career model for teachers in vocational training. I was surprised, too, because the pedagogical career has been most criticized from that side, and now we are hearing positive overtones in the pedagogical career. I'm glad of that, by the way, and we take that as a compliment again. The thing is, you'll still be able to stay in the pedagogical career. The individual decision of the teachers working there remains that they will want to continue to participate in the promotion system. We give them freedom of choice, we give them the opportunity to continue working as part of this career and progress in their professional careers. Doubtful financial gain. I've written that word out to myself, "Shady financial benefits." Calling 35 billion forints a dubious financial contribution, I've never heard that before. I think it's a bigger case. I believe that 35 billion HUF development, 35 billion HUF wage increase, which allows an average 30 percent wage increase for those in vocational training, for each of them, is a major step forward and a huge opportunity for the entire vocational training system. In addition, all of this is possible by offering their individual hireling. We consider teachers to be adults, we consider vocational training workers to be adults, and we believe that they can agree with the employer according to market conditions in a real wage deal. This is a new situation, a new option, but I think it will allow us to pay the best even more and to involve people who have been kept away from the wage situation and thus make market knowledge even more accessible to students in vocational training. The fact is, there have been several opinions on the churches. I am proud that the Hungarian churches take responsibility for vocational training, we are proud that this commitment and responsibility is becoming increasingly visible. The fact that anti-church parties basically criticize this is what we expected. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Who is anti-church? Did you say parties?]] I didn't say that, Congresswoman. We know that there are anti-church parties, we acknowledge their views, but we will never agree on that. We believe it is right to support the social responsibility of churches by all means and to support their real participation in the responsibilities and tasks of vocational training. The fact is that Congressman Arato even asked an interesting question as to whether graduation would be complete. Of course they're doing a full-scale graduation in the technics. There's one graduation system, one graduation. I think that is clear from the legislation, but if not, I hope that we have now managed to make this clear. And I have one more claim to reject in any case, which is that it's against children. I think that this law is called anti-children's or anti-young people's attitudes, because we are now creating the opportunity to provide young people in vocational training with substantial scholarships, to make wages available to them, and to provide them with knowledge, skills and opportunities where they can actually cope with the labour market, so that they can take care of their own future, the future of their families. [[20.00]] We act in their interest, these changes are in their interest, and we want and work to make the Hungarian vocational training system more competitive and even better. That is what this proposal is about, and I therefore strongly reject the adjective that you have here, Mr President, on the bill. Perhaps I would still like to respond to Mr Earth's comment, on the part of the KDNP, on the part of the Community service. Indeed, this is an important issue, since social responsibility is particularly important and important for all young people. It is absolutely necessary to examine this point. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-05-184	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda. We're gonna have two-minute comments. First, Congressman Tibor Nunkovics, Jobbik.
u2019-11-05-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to approach this from a slightly different point of view, even because I am not an expert in this area, but there are many things that I would like to comment on. But as Secretary of State András Tállai used to say, "Don't be a professional, so I'll stay on this road and approach it a little differently. Vocational training is divided into two parts if we want to simplify the formula: it consists of instructors and students. The government and my fellow Earth Member who is unfortunately no longer here [[László Földi sits in the notary seat.]] He said if I spelled it right, he would literally say that instead of trained workers, we needed a value-creating workforce. Well, good morning, I think you've been told this for many years, not only by the representatives of opposition parties, but also by the profession, you are still trying to train trained workers from young people who are newly employed. We are also on the side of not having trained workers on the labour market, but rather working people, graduates or even professionals who are now in this country, because unfortunately they have gone to Germany or Ireland because of the work that they have done at home, not for 8 hours a day, but, say, 12 or 16 hours a day, and may have worked on weekends in masks, because they are paid three times as much for the work out there in half the time. So they went to Germany, Austria, or Ireland, England. And unfortunately, it's the same for the instructors if they don't settle their fate. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And if you offer them an opportunity to forgive me, I'll finish quickly, either by getting a raise or by getting into a system that won't be right for them, they'll also leave this country. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-11-05-186	Thank you, Congressman. For two minutes, Congressman Gergely Arató will have the floor.
u2019-11-05-187	Let's get some things straightened out from the Secretary of State's speech. The first of these concerns educational expenditures. On the basis of the educational data provided by the HCSO, you may believe these, accept them as credible, do not agree to how they deviate from international investigations, otherwise show much higher data than international comparisons, that according to these figures, the expenditure was at the maximum until 2005, in the first year of the Gyurcsány government's entry into office, around 6 percent, but throughout the period of left-wing and liberal governments, the educational expenditure was well above 5 percent in proportion to GDP. Even in the year of crisis, in 2010, it was 5.5 percent. From this point on, from 2011 to 2016, this expenditure was below 5%. Now you guys are so proud to have reached the 2010 level. Congratulations on that, and I'm glad you're heading in the right direction, but with this club, it's useless to wave. On the other hand, I have to tell you that there is unemployment today, look at unemployment figures, and if you count those who have been hidden away, like in the Kádár era, for example, as a public worker, it turns out that there is unemployment today and there is a shortage of workers at the same time. [[Dr. Winner Vinnai's intervention.]] This is precisely the case when you have screwed up vocational training and have not made it possible for those who, by the way, were very wise to speak about, who do not have the right qualifications, to acquire it and to be employed in the labour market. And you run a social system that doesn't drag people into the labour market, but keeps them away. Finally, Mr. Secretary, I think you meant us when you mentioned an anti-church party. [[Tamás János Schanda nods.]] We're not anti-church, we're pro-equality. We demand that children in public schools have the same rights as children in church schools, so that they have no privileges to church institutions. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-05-188	Thank you very much. Two minutes, Congressman Szabolcs Szabó.
u2019-11-05-189	Thank you very much. On the one hand, with regard to the teaching career, I understood the law as being voluntary. I was wondering if, on the one hand, you would be able to bear the cost of this. Is there anything that encourages the teacher in vocational training to do the qualification, because, for example, in wages, this is going to come down or not? 'Cause I thought it wasn't, because it's a personal deal. Yes, but imagine a perfectly normal life situation, let's say, from a Kaposvár technique, the teacher moves away for some family reason and will teach at a high school in Békéscsaba. Well, then he's at a disadvantage because there was no incentive for him to make progress according to the teacher's career model. And if he goes to high school to work, he'll be at a disadvantage there. So I would think that this is rather the right approach, as opposed to what you said, that this career model that we have now, I think, and I think that most of the opposition think it is wrong. There's only one thing worse than that when there's two types. So I'd rather have one, and good, which is why we put it in his minimum education program, anyway, that we should totally rethink this whole thing. One thing I forgot to tell you before is that it is also an interesting question, by the way, how this OKJ system is being implemented, and it is not clear to us how this will work in the future. I'd appreciate it if you'd give me some details. By the way, I just signed up for an OKJ course for the fun of it. [[Dr. Winner Vinnai:]] I'm gonna see what the current system looks like, and then I'm gonna sign up for the new one, and I'm gonna be able to compare it. But I'm interested in what I'm going to expect from the difference between the two, because that's what I'm really curious about. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-05-190	Thank you, Congressman. Two minutes from now, it'll be Mr. Vinnai.
u2019-11-05-191	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First, I would like to respond to Gergely Arató's educational expenditures, because I remember that in 2002 I got into politics as a local government politician, that the 50 percent wage increase, which was made by the Medgyessy government, was immediately put in the hands of the municipalities, and 50 percent was due to the debt of the municipalities. I do not know if you know, my fellow Member, that the Orbán government consolidated HUF 1358 billion in 2012-2013. That's one of them. The other one. I feel a little confused because Gergely Arató said that there is no clear vision in this proposal. Szabolcs Szabó said that this is the first thought-out concept. [[Szabolcs Szabó's intervention.]] One of them says there's no concept in it, the other says there's a thoughtful concept in it. [[Gergely Arató turning to Szabó Szabolcs: The congressman is very benevolent...]] The concept is good, the direction is good, but there are some improvements to be made. So it's an important thing. Ágnes Kunhalmi says that he already hears such words from pro-government politicians and representatives: a knowledge-based society, lifelong learning, XXI. Technological knowledge of the century. That is exactly what we are trying to say, that if we want to bring students back to the labour market, then we need to give the most modern training, with the most modern technological means, and that is why we involve company professionals. I would just like to list: VET Innovation Council, Sector Skills Council, Chamber of Commerce and Training Council, representatives of which say from practical life how this vocational training should be done, and it is clear that demand-driven education is needed. It is not in school that we have to figure out what I offer, what kind of teaching society or what kind of teaching faculty there is to teach it, but in the opposite direction, we have to start from practice and teach it that way. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-05-192	Thank you, Congressman. I'll give the floor to Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi for two minutes. [[20.10]]
u2019-11-05-193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have tried to make it clear to my colleague from Vinnai that the players in the economy in general want to have either a very cheap, vulnerable workforce who can be thrown away, and that someone else has done so for nine years, but on the other hand, the entrepreneurs specifically told me not to send half-alfa-beta children to the workshop, because I cannot assemble the Audit. But what do I expect when, in the first VET Act, a fidesz congressman said that it would be enough, just don't talk to me, it'll be enough for the mechanics now to have a wrench and a hammer? I'm telling you, man, I mean, my fellow Member, we're not installing Wartburgs and Trabants, we're installing Audit and Mercedes, we need a little more training or training for the kids. That's one of them. We still spent more than you do in the worst crisis in terms of GDP, and there's nothing you can do about it. Secretary of State, I'm not anti-church. I'm on the side of justice and equality. The church and the state are separated from each other in my opinion, in my social Democratic opinion, no less for a child in public school than for a child in church school. It also costs the church institutions the same amount, and it must have the same legal status as civil society organisations. That's my left-wing point. Obviously, we'll never agree on that, as you say. I would like to say that working hours are exploitative and anti-childish, as are many of the provisions of the Labour Code. Please, if you say that this is not the case, then, with all due respect, it would be very good, for example, to include employee representation and professional representation in the VET law, which your first government, the Antall government, had put in the Public Education Act. That would be very good, so then, please, please understand, I'm lobbying. And one more thing: we never criticized the wage part of the career model, but the insolence that you, by the way, missed the last 5 percent of the career, was stolen from the teachers because they gave it to them as a quality supplement, it wasn't built up, and they didn't respect the minimum wage, and there is still no agreement at sectoral level. Therefore, a special vocational training allowance could be used to avoid the need to exclude these teachers from the status of civil servants. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2019-11-05-194	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. [[Gergely Harvesto: It's so easy!]]
u2019-11-05-195	Thank you very much. One sentence for Mr harvester: I think you are anti-church, but we can conclude this debate. That's the thing. A question from Mr Szabó, on behalf of the OKJ. The fact is that we are creating a cleaner, simpler, more transparent system where modernized teaching materials, better-structured training, student-friendly training and training courses can be implemented. That's what the transformation of the OKJ system is all about. I am sure that when we expect feedback on practical experience in some debate here in Parliament in a few years' time, the Member will also confirm this. With regard to the pedagogical career, I can only confirm what I said earlier in relation to the Member's speech. I understand that the pedagogical career has been criticised so far, and now its benefits are highlighted, but the fact is that for teachers in vocational training we can now implement an unprecedented wage-raise programme, and we are also doing so in a flexible employment environment, with a free wage deal, which will pay them. In addition, if you want to, and this is your own adult decision, it will be your personal decision for all teachers, you can stay in the teacher-life model qualification system, and so you will have the opportunity to participate and participate in that system as well. Thank you.
u2019-11-05-196	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next pre-notified speaker was Mrs Maria Kállai, Member of the Council of the European Union, Fidesz.
u2019-11-05-197	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Dear House, I am one of those who consider this bill to be an absolutely definite visionary, see a vocational training strategy, with a very, very wide involvement in it, a very serious, adult-managed, well-destructive, feasible, virtually even a compass package, which reflects very well on the world's affairs, reflects very well on the industrial revolution that has already been discussed today, because we all know that we are not even at the beginning of a new era, when information technology, automation is increasingly closely interwoven, production methods are fundamentally changing, and the role of man is also changing. This does not mean that there is no need, but that it means that an entirely different system of abilities must be dealt with in a completely different way. It will be very necessary, and this places a huge responsibility on education policy in all countries to train the competitive workforce of the future. That's the way it is at home. There is a serious need to increase the number of participants in the Hungarian labour market and enterprise sector in the 21st century. We need to create a capacity to adapt to the requirements and circumstances of the century and an environment in which companies really have the tools to support them, and very serious young people with valuable knowledge are also available to increase their efficiency and thereby create their international competitiveness. The responsibility of the portfolio and the government shows that the SME strategy has also come to light today. Along the lines of SME strategies, the ITM led practically on the spot, all chambers in all counties, representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises. It's probably just a few calls. It is very serious that small and medium-sized enterprises, whether to increase their export capacity, their organisational culture or their connection to the information world, to the industry 4.0, or to the generation shift that is present there, if I look at the two in parallel, and after this has been published today, the vocational training law and the future form a large part of the young people in these small and medium-sized enterprises. I also think that this shows a very coherent thinking on the one hand. On the other hand, it is a very serious responsibility to provide all Hungarian citizens of working age with at least one modern skills and professional qualifications based on the needs of the economy, based on the needs of the economy, providing employment in the labour market, as it is very important that the individual's well-being, the individual's vision and the need for the Hungarian economy, the need for the labour market can be linked, and it is a very serious issue and responsibility to maintain this supply. I think that this package of laws puts all of this on a new path, which is made possible by the transformation of the vocational training system and the development of it to meet the challenges of the age. In fact, this is what the bill before us serves, and as has been said so far, I think it is clear. However, I think or hope that its adoption will also become clear to all Members, because, as I said at the beginning, its aim is to truly establish the legislative framework for the reform and renewal of the vocational training system by adopting the legislative framework for achieving the values, objectives and policy orientations set out in the Vocational Training 4.0 strategy, which is innovative, innovative and harmonised in relation to the labour market and the economy, and indeed makes it possible, as has already been said today, for all Hungarian citizens in the Carpathian Basin to achieve modern expertise based on the development of professional and key competences. We also know, in practice, that Hungary is below the OECD average in terms of secondary education, and that fewer adults are still participating in adult education than compared to the EU average. Obviously, in order to catch up with the leading countries, this economic growth, which Mr Secretary of State spoke about in his Expoze, must be maintained, indeed, a coordinated development policy is needed. If I want to put it very concisely, then the education system is practically a labour market conformation. I trust that we all agree in this Chamber that the transformation is necessary, on the one hand, because it must also be said honestly that vocational training can still serve the country in part, the needs of the territorial and the various sectors, on the other hand, what is good to say again is the macro-economic challenges that are very good challenges at this moment, as economic growth, continuing economic growth, improving employment, together with, thanking God, the rise in wages, all show a dynamism with which training must also keep pace. [[20.20]] For the continuous growth of the economy to be a reality at all, further development of a skilled workforce is essential, as a very serious shortage of growth barriers may arise. It is also a fact and fact, in the introduction of Mr State Secretary, we have heard that progress has been made in recent years step by step, since the Chamber itself has made a lot of progress in the development of a dual vocational training system, but in the paradigm shift, as my fellow Member said, there is a very serious difference in thinking about supply-based, a long-term loss of competitiveness. Leader, we place it on the basis of labour market demand. This is a very, very serious issue, as supply-driven training practice must indeed be replaced by a demand-driven vocational training system. Obviously, the change of thought patterns is a very serious responsibility at all levels. The regulatory, operational and financing practices of previous years should also change as they should encourage this at systemic level. Therefore, it is particularly important to train, we can say honestly, bolder, braver, more radically, and practically the challenges that come from industry 4.0, and which are reflected in the VET strategy 4.0, when we reach the school bench at system level, we have a serious responsibility to model, because today, instead of and in addition to traditional jobs, as has already been said today, we need to talk about sectoral skills, skills and sectoral competences, and the representatives of the various economic sectors are expressing their needs in particular, indicating, in fact, the needs for training and emissions. I am pleased to quote Minister László Palkovics' thoughts on the opening year of vocational training, since it was possible to say in Nyíregyháza that, for the first time in ten years, 8.5% more students started their studies in vocational school than in general high school. This is in any way a sign of the vision of vocational training, and I think that this package of laws itself is an opportunity to achieve it. There are many ways of looking at who is good and what is good for. I would like to shed some light on some things through the students' glasses, since the current 4+1 year course in vocational school is basically replaced by the 5 years of undivided training, which ends with a graduation exam and the acquisition of the technical diploma. The uniform organisation of training, duality and stronger links to higher education justify change. In the ninth-tenth grade, they learn basic knowledge and sectoral knowledge, then in the second cycle there is a vocational education in addition to public knowledge content, and in the case of professional education from the eleventh grade, there is also the possibility to conclude a vocational training contract and, in practice, to obtain income from work. Such an idea is also a huge complexity, but I think that every single actor is the beneficiary of it. As a closing point in technical education, as in high school, you have to graduate from four subjects of public knowledge, and the fifth exam is triggered by the vocational exam, which provides the possibility of further education in higher education. Technicians and vocational schools will continue to have the possibility of obtaining a technician diploma in the course of a two-year course. You can see that the system, apart from being complex, flexible, creates opportunities. In addition, vocational education and training schools should be mentioned, as the three-year training period provides the opportunity to acquire professions based on primary education. During the first year of vocational school, there is a basic sector education, and for the next two years there is a vocational education. Overall, it has to be said that the possibility is open to moving at the end of the course to graduation or even to technical training. It should also be said, as has already been said today, that the Dobbantó programme will ensure the development of the basic competence for those who do not graduate from primary school and then move on to the workshop school. The Dobbantó program has a great experience, as everyone can know after a little reading that they started a few years ago, and today there are results back in several high schools and vocational schools in the country. Helping young people with multiple disadvantages is a tested system with measured results. I knew the creative team professionally from the beginning, and I dare say so from this point of view. It is very, very, very important that a master, a pedagogical mentor, stays with a student until he gets the part. Finally, those who leave school-based vocational training without a degree can still get this at the workshop school. At the workshop school, I would also like to show flexibility, not a school year, for a maximum of two years, and education takes place at the place of practical training. I could go into many, many more details, but it has to be said in any case that the vocational training package, the opportunities offered by the bill, allow a very conscious, much more effective career choice, fully fit the needs of students, ensure the possibility of lifelong learning, open to university, but also very responsiblely focus on leaving school and helping those who have left school without a degree. So we can say that the new vocational training system fully takes into account the very diversity of students, their very diverse social backgrounds, their wide variety of skills structures, and gives everyone the opportunity to acquire marketable qualifications and to provide flexible access to different forms of training. There has been more talk about it, and I do not want to repeat it in depth, but it is also very good to say that the scholarship system is for all students involved in basic sector education and vocational training, as well as for certain preparatory courses and workshops. In addition, students are entitled to a single start-up allowance, student ID, dormitory placement, external placement, and the Apáczai Scholarship has already been discussed, as it can also benefit from this in view of the adverse situation of two thousand students and, where appropriate, the good educational outcomes. I think the workers of the future, we can clearly say, are the winners of this transformation. We can ask whether the amendment to the law that will enter into force from 1 January 2020 is premature or late. In a rapidly changing world, I think it is as optimal as possible, because since the concept was created it has been possible to constantly change minds, gain experience, think together with the staff of vocational schools, and all this has happened. This is an emerging system, so that students starting their studies in the ninth grade can start their studies on the basis of a renewed vocational training programme and, at the same time, on the basis of local programmes based on public education content. Several people have already spoken today about the staff of the vocational training system, the teachers and teachers present here, and I do not wish to repeat it: clearly, in addition to the 30 per cent wage increase, treating as an absolute adult, creating opportunities and obviously drawing all the participants in the entire vocational training system closer to the competition sphere. In conclusion, the proposal before us sets out a new regulatory direction for the following main areas: institutional system, professional structure and a new system of education education. A paradigm shifter, responsible proposal, meeting the challenges of the age, provides career opportunities, is also motivated by a wide scholarship system, based on up-to-date teaching skills, and is assigned to this, if we look around in many places, the very seriously renewed learning and education environment. I would like to highlight one more thing, the strengthening of the relationship between training and the economy, examples of which are the sector training centre, the knowledge centre, the corporate training centre. All three are designed to achieve the objectives set out in the transformation, and the law clearly states their content. Ladies and gentlemen, I trust that all Members will vote in favour of the draft law, the conversion of vocational training in the field and with personal experience, with confidence and expectation. By doing so, we do our fundamental duty: based on its values, we set the vocational training system on a new path, serving the well-being of Hungarian young people, Hungarian families and the Hungarian economy. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-05-198	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Kállai. For two minutes, Mrs Agnes Kunhalmi will have the floor. [[20.30]]
u2019-11-05-199	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like two things, one question and one comment. Supply-driven training should be replaced by demand-driven training. Okay, all right, that sounds good, but if there's nothing behind it, it's still not gonna work. And here I would like to draw attention to what you have now started to talk about, these key competences, the development of basic competences and, to add, the catching up. There's no good vocational training. It has to be understood, and that's why I put it this way and wrote it down to myself and read that it has to be understood that since vocational training takes place in the school system, there is no training as an apprentice in the second school. Before World War II, you have to understand that the school wasn't really able to follow the profession, because especially in the increasingly accelerated world, by the time the child comes out of school, the technical part of that profession will change so quickly just to simplify it so that it's basically no longer relevant. So basic skills, lifelong learning, that's the most important thing that professional children have to learn, and it's really good that now this is the form of education, the former secondary school system, which you've done for nine years, but this technique is now returning to that. So when we say it's the right direction, the right direction for the past nine years is the wrong way around. And I have one more question with respect, because it is not clear to me that the planned wage increase applies only to teachers and instructors, or to teachers of public knowledge. [[Dr. Winner Vinnai: To everyone.]] So be kind enough to change that for me, because I don't know about that. Thank you.
u2019-11-05-200	Thank you, Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi. I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Gelencsér, who announced his speech in advance.
u2019-11-05-201	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Basically, I prepared a professional speech, but I have to respond to some of the points here, even because my good fortune brought me to function as a maintainer for a few years. 11 major vocational training institutions, I recall that about 6,000 of their students attended these institutions, where I gained experience, and the sentences said here, especially from the left, cannot be unanswered. So my first observation is that those times, to put it mildly, were difficult. If you now say that Gergely Arató was spending 5-6 percent of GDP at that time, I would like to tell Gergely Arató that there are at least two problems with this. One problem is that this was not provided by the government, but only a part of it, and the other part of it was indebted by these low-normative subsidies. [[Dr. Winner Vinnai: That's right!]] So when you talk about a level of 5-6 percent, it must have been about 2-3 percent of the government budget, given that, as far as I can remember, there was enough vocational training normative to maintain vocational training facilities for 50 percent of the time. You know, Mr.Gergely Arató and Mrs. Ágnes Kunhalmi shaking her head, I do not wish you the experience that I had when I had to invite suppliers in for your funding, and I had to ask you not to deliver for 60 days, but to be kind enough to deliver for 90 and 120 days, so that we could provide food in these institutions. But there's another problem with your 5-6 percent. It's a GDP-related number, actually I understand the tricks of the 100s of tricks, but then how much was GDP, the total national product, and today! I mean, I would like to tell you that when you say that we are at the same percentage of GDP, it is a huge admission from you that we are spending much more on vocational training today, because the much higher value of GDP at that time is now the total national product, and ergo we are spending much more, even if we spend a percentage of that. And for Agnes Kunhalmi, whose speeches sometimes feel helpful and supportive, so for my part I am a little surprised at this, but my dear fellow Member, he says that I now hear several times that the submission of the law itself is an admission that things have not gone well so far. The problem here is that if the opposition finds no change, then the criticism is that we do not touch what we should touch, and this sounds from the other side; when we touch it, then the claim and accusation is made that we have admitted that it has not been good. So this is the,, there's a hat, there's no cap, it's a little discrediting, I think, the reviews. And why the why now? Let me answer your question, although I think it has been said many times here, but in my very simple way. We agreed that there is a consensus between the government and the opposition on the labour market in this area. The labour market determines what we want to do. You don't really think the labour market hasn't changed in the last nine years, do you? ! The labour market has undergone dramatic change [[Dr. Winner Vinnai: Employment has increased!]] As a consequence, it is necessary to touch the system. So I think that's the logic of it. [[Dr. Winner Vinnai: Employment has increased by 50 percent!]] And I don't know exactly what you can't understand, but maybe this response helped me understand something. Ladies and gentlemen, As we know, the government's priority is to preserve the performance of the Hungarian economy and achieve full employment. To this end, a number of targeted measures have been introduced in recent years. One of the most important factors for economic growth, however, is a well-trained, quality workforce. The renewal of the vocational training system is therefore crucial. In addition to maintaining economic growth, macroeconomic factors also call for the transformation of vocational training. In recent years, economic growth has been steady in Hungary, unemployment has decreased by half, employment has increased significantly, with real wages rising. The labour market is now characterised by demand and not supply. A skilled workforce is essential for the continued functioning of the economy, resulting in a shortage of further development and growth barriers. However, the rapid changes in the economy, technology and the labour market are constantly creating new challenges for vocational training and adult education, requiring effective measures to address emerging issues in the short and long term. The main challenges of technological development are, for example, the emergence of new professions to which future professionals, students and workers already employed must be prepared. With the emergence of new technologies, the role of human factors will also be revalued, acquired and needed to acquire skills that are not yet available, or are expected to be less frequently, than in the individual jobs. The number of job vacancies has doubled and quality extra labour is needed. The prestige of vocational education and training needs to be raised to a higher level, as high school is currently the most popular type of school for young people, while vocational secondary school is the least popular. A further reduction in the level of unqualified school leaving is a problem. Lifelong learning I hear that they're happy, we've always supported it, life-long learning, skill level everyone has the importance of this and the promotion of this among adults. Education, in particular vocational training and adult education, must function in line with the needs of the labour market, the expectations of the economy, and change if necessary, as the VET system can develop the competences that companies expect. The aim is to ensure that new opportunities and training paths can be implemented, while maintaining the well-functioning and proven elements of the vocational training and adult education system, to ensure that the training system is more adaptable. [[20.40]] However, vocational training is currently only partially able to meet national and regional as well as sectoral economic needs, even though significant and successful steps have been taken recently, such as the initiative of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry to develop a dual vocational training system. However, our Vocational Training system is not still based on real labour market demand, but, above all, what my fellow Member said on the basis of supply, which would lead to a reduction in the competitiveness of our economy in the long term. Supply-driven training practices should replace the development of a demand-driven vocational training system. This requires a significant change in regulatory, operational and financing practices that have been preserved over many years. This bill serves well the objectives set out in the Government's Vocational Training 4.0 strategy, namely the creation of career opportunities, since the labour market prospects of graduates are better than those of uneducated graduates, the creation of a modern learning and educational environment, such as the development of workshops through modern digital educational content and the provision of up-to-date teaching skills. Dear fellow Members, One word as a hundred: this bill transforms vocational training by laying the foundations of a flexible system that can better adapt to economic change and challenges they dictate. I'm honored by your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-05-202	Thank you very much, Congressman Attila Gelencsér. I'll give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató for two minutes.
u2019-11-05-203	Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Obviously, we could spend a pleasant evening evaluating the government period between 2002 and 2010. I wouldn't have brought him here if Secretary Schanda hadn't brought this up. I have to tell you that this does not have much to do with the need to remove the status of civil servant from those in vocational training or the need to force students to work from morning to 8:00 at night. I think that these are the important issues today, and, frankly, I could say a lot about the disadvantages of the period before 2010, precisely because, like you, I already existed as a politician. But that's why I wouldn't have asked for a word, but one of his ideas struck my ears, the supply and demand vocational training market story. Do you know who they were, which political force in the period before 2010 because they do not think that this is a new dilemma always said that this vocational training system is not good because they teach what they know and not what industry and the economy need? It was the free democrats who have always declared this principle, who have said that the economy will tell us what is needed, and then the labour market will tell us what is needed, and it is the job of education to follow it. I'm getting more and more of an opinion, and in that, I've changed my mind that it's an illusion. Just as no one could tell what the economy was going to need then... Not now, because it is not always easy, and they are not really a good way to tell what the economy needs right now, but in a better functioning labour statistics system it could be seen. But that, by the way, five years from now, when that kid falls out of the tech, and thirty-five years from now, when he's still on the field, what he needs, there's no living person who can tell. For this reason, in most countries, in the development of vocational education and training, they have gone in the direction of making sure that the funds are established. Please don't ruin it, because otherwise, it's okay with the bill. The logic of the technique can provide a solid basis for the long term, but this will not make it a vocational training in demand, but, thank God, a vocational training that will prepare young people for success in the long term.
u2019-11-05-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Szabó Szabolcs, an independent Member for two minutes.
u2019-11-05-205	Thank you very much for the floor. I'm sorry, but now I'm going to be a social researcher, and I'm going to have to react. If I want to compare data, I must make these data comparable to Mr Gelencsér. It must therefore be comparable both for time series analysis and for spatial analysis. In the analysis of these types of systems, it is customary to refer to GDP, as this can be used well in an international comparison. We can look at expenditure as time series data and only take into account inflation, because then it will be, not in current prices, but in real terms. By the way, I just downloaded the KSH chart. The methodological description indicates that it shows the total public budget expenditure on education as a percentage of GDP. So the state budget is without municipalities. In 2003, 5,69 percent, in 2005, 5.33 percent, even in 2010, 4.75, and in 2017, 4.34 percent. I'm not supposed to defend the pre-2010 situation, and my colleagues will do that if they want me to, as a social researcher, I'm just saying numbers. These are facts. That's the 5.69 that the local government edition found out about. There's only an estimate of that, it must have been about 100 billion. But there are only estimates of that. So it's to be counted as one of those six-six-six times actually. Only in terms of budget, it's about 5.6 percent. That's what's now below 5. That's what we always talk about, that's not enough. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-05-206	Thank you very much. For two minutes, Mrs Agnes Kunhalmi will have the floor.
u2019-11-05-207	[[To Attila Gelencsér on his way out of the Chamber:]] Don't go away. Mr. Gelencher, just one sentence, because I'm addressing you. But I'm not the devil! Trust me. Even if on the right is that the left is all the devil's chicks, believe me, I'm not, sir, and neither are my colleagues. At most, we disagree on a lot of social and economic policy issues, but we are not. What you said is true, about 60-40 percent of the public and municipal burden. By 2010, the burden on the municipality and the burden on the State on a child became 50-50 percent. But the two systems are not comparable. Indeed, many municipalities could not bear the burden, you say this perfectly, and already in the last years of government, colleagues of the time, I was still in a different direction by designing the plans that you really should have made after 2010. Indeed, the state should have been involved in some way with the municipalities who could not, but should not have been fully nationalized by what you did, because there were a lot of municipalities that had gone beyond what the state had added, and they could have made buffalo-strong, good and financially strong schools there. So you understand the distancing I'm saying, don't you? You should have been more differentiated after 2010, not a complete nationalization, because you also poured the child out with bath water. But we're over it, and we're gonna have to sort this out. One more thing. It's not the speeding up of technological and economic changes in the last nine years that you need to change your vocational training law, it's because you screwed it up. It's not small, it's very wow to live with a classic. [[Defiance.]] All the studies of the Hungarian National Bank, published in the last two years, unfortunately for you, we were aware of this. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2019-11-05-208	Thank you, Congresswoman. The next speaker is Mr Ander Balázs Jobbik.
u2019-11-05-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to reflect on the words of my fellow Member Vinnai because he doubted the fear of teachers. Well, from Vásároshnosnám to Sopron, I have a lot of bitter complaints where that was the case. They're afraid they've been placed on the edge of a rug, possibly because of a sharing, a Facebook like. They didn't do anything illegal, let's just say they expressed their political opinion, and that was enough for the local gentlemen to be called to account for it, saying, "Don't forget who you're getting your salary from." Obviously not Fidesz if we're not talking about a party state. It could also be said that the NER servants of the nation were indeed made by the workers of the day, and the attitude that we say at Gárdonyi We read in the lamp from Ágoston Kovács, a folk teacher who, if necessary, sues and smacks the local highs because, in many cases, it is taken out because of this kind of power arrogance and attitude. I'm asking you to think about that. Because not only did low wages drive a lot of teachers off this beautiful career, but also, among other things, that kind of power attitude. That's why ten graduates, let's say, four of them start teaching, and then one third of them are crumbling fast. So that's part of it. [[20.50]] Second, as an excellent rector, as an even better obstetrician and gynecologist, the Secretary of State knows that among many midwives, the child is sometimes lost. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] ; and such is vocational training in Hungary, especially such a type of stepchild to be so ugly. So 40 percent of young people in high school are going to high school, 40 percent of them are going to vocational high school, and then tech is now, the names are changing, and there are many times you have to look for the exact exact term for what it is, and 20 percent is going to vocational school. And I would like to say a few more words about these vocational trainings, because if we take a sightseeing test here in the medical area, we can encounter shockingly bad numbers and results. And it's not because the young people who go there are originally some kind of devil, you have to reach back much earlier. And the thing is, this bill really does contain positives, so let me just say, I told you that vision would be nice. Such a positive thing is the scholarship system. However, by the time a young person gets there, in many cases there will be changes and socialisation distortions that could not be corrected with such a scholarship. Prevention would be better, namely early childhood development with the involvement of families. I know that there is an institution of the "Probable Start" children's homes, which aims to develop before kindergarten with the involvement of a father, a mother, but let us also look at the overall social need for such a thing, and how far the range of this good institution extends. We say that this should be taken much, much more seriously, in the same way that, at a later stage of life, more attention should be paid to schools, because indeed, if they are doing their job normally and do not give God an extreme and bad example, but it is not about a withdrawal of money, but they really care about the fate of the children who are there, they can do a miracle. And the budget, as well as the pro-government majority, should see these voices and these good examples, and should be more supportive of these institutions, because they are our future. I mean, if we're talking about drop-out today, I don't know how many times this concept has come up, then the thing is that it's mostly in the type of school I'm talking about, so the vocational schools, and we should intervene here, but not at the age of 15 and 16, we have to do it, of course, much, much earlier. What am I talking about? Why would this happen? Because the Hungarian school system is terminally, fatally selective. I don't like the word "segregator" very much, and I don't like it at all, and I don't use it at all, precisely because such images may appear, that there are evil, racist teachers who are segregation of poor Roma-born students, even though the system is more encoded by selectivity, and if a Hungarian child from uneducated parents comes to school from a farm environment, with a limited language code, and the other, so low family background indexes, the same bitter things apply to him. So I'd like to stick to this term, if you don't mind. So what else do we see? According to the surveys carried out by the Institute for Economic and Enterprise Research, and there was another, the shocking situation was presented to the interested people that the results of the students in this type of school were directly deteriorating compared to their former self. Because it is also a terrible thing that the results of the 10th grade students in vocational school are worse than those of the average 6th grade kids, but how to say it delicately in this type of school, but it can't be subtlely stupid or produce worse results is unacceptable, it's totally unacceptable. The extent to which the socioeconomic status of families, these children, can determine their school success, is also the shame and failure of education policy, because if we look at how many students in the lower quintile can eject into the top fifth of their educational indicators on this basis, they are much worse than the European average in Hungary, despite their difficult fate and all their cumulative disadvantages. Now, these should be improved, and if we could improve these things, then I think that the current vocational training would be much, much more successful, and parents would not, in many cases, protect their children and their babies from going to such a school, saying that it would castrate them even more and determine the fate of these students for life. The fact is that these vocational training facilities have evolved. And, fellow Members, it is commendable here to admit that you are able to correct it and realize that there is trouble, but it has been nine and a half years. So you should have some serious responsibility for this. They are also personally responsible, and they are also politically responsible. This can't be done with a half sentence like this, especially if we add that this whole issue is connected to the issue of Roma integration with a thousand threads. After all, the vast majority of young gypsies who graduated from primary school continue their careers in this type of school. May God grant you to continue and not be stuck in primary school education, which in today's world may be good for something during such a labour market economy or economic activity, but it also needs to be calculated that this golden time ends once, and that in order to be successful in the long term on the labour market, much more is needed. So that's something to think about. These are missing, among other things, from this proposal. You can say that you have it, you are there, you should only consult it, then you should explain it to the profession and to Hungarian society in detail, so that I, as an evil opposition representative, cannot stand here and say that a blank cheque is this bill that they put under our noses and expect us to sign it. We would have a much better heart for this, believe me, my honourable members of the Government, if this method were to prevail. I've brought it up so many times, and I'm going to bring up the story or the parable of a Nobel Prize winner named James Heckman. He has been very concerned about how educational expenses are repaid. And speaking of the students involved in vocational training, including the former vocational training school and now the vocational training school, research has clearly shown that this rate of return is falling sharply in proportion to the time. What would I like to get out of all of this, my honourable members of the Government? I think we should intervene on time. Much more attention is paid to early childhood development and all things, including Gypsy integration, which are related to this. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-11-05-210	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no signal.]] No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. Obviously, on behalf of the authors, Mr József Bódis wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[József Bódis nodds.]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[21.00]]
u2019-11-05-211	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to say in advance that I have no great experience with Parliament's debates, but what I have learned is that the various comments on the various sides give each other the political answers, and I have also been helped by the Secretary of State, so, if you will allow me, I would not comment on that. However, there are some important questions that need to be answered. One is that I think that education systems live and work in a very serious contradiction, and this contradiction is that we should prepare students, young people, for something that we do not even know about today. It is now a well-known list of the world forum of economists that sequences different abilities. At the beginning of the order of 2015, the complex problem solving was, and it will be at the beginning of the order of 20. Creativity was the last place in the 2015 list, so in the tenth place it was the third place in list 20. In the meantime, of course, there is critical thinking and all that. I believe that there is no system that can thematically prepare for this. But what can a good education system do? A good education system can develop skills, of course along with, along with, and along with, the transfer of certain knowledge material. The development of skills has come up in several comments today, and I think that we have a very common view on this. The key to all education and training is skill development. It was a recurring question as to why we want to remove vocational training from public education. Trust me, this is not a mania. But if you think about it in substance, it is much more like the higher education system in terms of the output of vocational training as a system. Each one has an output that the economy is waiting for, society is waiting for, and wants to see the immediate benefits of what they have invested. This is obviously not the case in public education; public education is a skill development beyond knowledge, and the rest, and management to high school, management to vocational training, management, let's say, after graduation, of course, to higher education. I believe that at the time when this separation was formulated as a basic concept, this was the driving force behind it. Another serious, recurring thing. Was there a vision when this was put together, didn't we? I think it was a vision, more than that, a strategy. On the one hand, industry has a 4.0 strategy, but vocational training also has a 4.0 strategy. That's what this bill was built on, and I think it's okay. They object to being framed. Of course, a lot of regulatory issues still need to be resolved, and obviously we will resolve this with regard to a government regulation. The greatest advantage of this system is that, in terms of its concept, it is both horizontal and vertically open, flexible, it does not only hinder the transition from one form of training to another, but also explicitly assists and takes into account the stages of development in the case of a student and young person that we have all passed. Everyone is now, of course, elsewhere, but this includes the positively mentioned, by many people, a little cynically mentioned lifelong learning. I think whether we want it or not, that's what we live in, that's what we have to do. Knowledge-based economy, knowledge-based education, social building. It would be good if one could quote data that was not produced at home, the independence of which was beyond doubt. About three weeks ago, it was possible to read an analysis by MIT comparing knowledge-based economies, if I recall correctly, for 128 to 130 countries. In this respect, we are in the 15th place. I've looked very, very carefully at the fact that there's no mistake. There's no mistake. So the events that have taken place in the Hungarian economy over the last few years, which has led us to a stable economic situation from a crisis situation, resulting in GDP moving around 5.2 to 5.3, for which we have to do a lot to keep it, or to be higher than the EU average, let us always be, let us say, a 2 percentage point above it, because this ensures the development that we expect from our own point of view, then we have to take action. There must be a lot of action, training, and I think that the National Basics Plan will move in this direction. This is the direction we have now taken in vocational training. By the way, with this law, we do not want to take rights away from anyone, we do not want to limit them, we want to give them the opportunity for higher wages, scholarships, and in relation to teachers, the Jubilee Prize remains, and freedom and additional freedom remain. There's a difference of five, no doubt, but in Mt. it's also possible to use supplementary leave. It opens up the possibility of a lease deal. Yeah, there's no practice in that. But where there's no practice, we don't have the guts to hit it? I think that he should go, or he should try, and help the actors to succeed in this regard. Several times it was said that there was no consultation. If that's for me, it's not even true for me, because I've sat down with the unions, I've negotiated, not superficially, but for very long hours. What they say about it is their business. I think it was very useful and good meetings. By the way, the employees who prepared this bill consulted hundreds of professionals during the process, and their opinions and experience are all included in the bill. That was the general thing I wanted to say. While Mr Secretary of State has answered several questions, and I would not like to repeat them because I respect everyone's time, Mr András Benedek was a reference from Mr András Ander. We agree with his professional excellence, but let me quote a sentence from him on this draft law we have just discussed. He said I wrote down that it was a European standard. If we agree with his excellent professionalism, then perhaps we should accept this. I think it's definitely a good thing. [[21.10]] I really just want to talk about what I'm talking about... The question is, I'm sorry. The question raised by Mrs Kunhalmi is to whom the increase in wages applies: everyone who teaches vocational training. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] Yeah, yeah. It would be a big problem if there was a difference. By the way, at the moment, there is about 40 percent of those in vocational training who are Mt. they are working, and we think that, in particular, in a system where we want to involve economic operators, i.e. companies, companies, people who have the skills for education and professional training, then Mt. gives them a better opportunity. Thank you, everyone, for seeing the positives in the bill, in which spirit we have also done this work. Obviously, criticism needs to be taken into account and, even in terms of deadlines, it is therefore a question of why it has to be so fast. But if it didn't enter into force on 1 January, the question would be why later. Social debate. I don't know if this could really be a social debate, while the professional context was involved on a very, very wide scale. Congressman Nunkovich said that he feared that the instructors would go abroad. We hope that we can make vocational training so attractive that this will not happen. The fact that there will be movement between public education and vocational training will certainly be some kind of movement, but I also think that this is okay. We must strive to ensure that better quality trainers are present in vocational training for students. Supply and demand side. As long as vocational training was in the comfortable situation of having unemployment of more than 10 percent, we did not have to concentrate so much on what we teach them, what we train them and what we train them for. By the way, I agree that there is a shortage of labour and, of course, unemployment, but today it is mostly temporary and unemployment is dependent on living situations, but today there is basically a shortage of labour. It has also been said that these corporate short-term targeted trainings, vocational training and labour market training will then remain, of course, yes. Otherwise, the responsibility and control of the company is that of the company, since it is in his interest to be good. Obviously not from a labour law perspective, and I don't think that's going to affect young people. So this is more of an area of adult education. And thank you for bringing my profession here. I must honestly say that I feel more confident in that area, so I have greater confidence, but I also have to admit that there are age-related things that are limited there, but as long as this is an experience for me, I am stealing from my spare time to be able to practice it a little bit, but now I have been approached with a task in which I may be able to use my experience in education. Overall, I would like to say that I thank everyone for their extremely active participation in the debate, for their positive professional attitude, and thank you for the excellent responses from the political side to each other, and I would like to say to all of this that this is a bill that really brings a new dimension to vocational training, including for the whole education system. Not only is the direction good for us, but the whole proposal itself is good, but I think that we need to pay attention together, so that when we implement the vocational training of today and the future in this spirit, it will be more and more successful. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-05-212	Thank you very much, Secretary of State József Bódis. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. There will now be one post-meeting speech. Tibor Nunkovics, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech: How long will the Csömöri and Kistarchai continue to suffer? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman, within a five-minute time frame.
u2019-11-05-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that, in the end, Mr Schanda, Secretary of State, is sitting back because this may mean that one of the two State Secretarys will answer my question after the agenda that has been said. I would like to read to you a letter I received from Kistarcsa, and please take it very seriously. Since 2016, Kistarcsa and Csömör have reeked of some of them, mostly in the evening, night and morning hours, as well as on weekends and holidays. The stench's coming from the dump on Csömör. At night, we wake up with nausea because of the terrible smell. Our quality of life is deteriorating. The stingy, spicy smell that bites our throats has unfortunately become part of our lives. You have to keep the windows closed regularly, but even so, the house is filled with this stomach-smelling smell. The smell is of varying intensity. Sometimes it's so strong, it causes nausea, headaches. We complained several times at the Department of Environment and Nature Protection of the Érd District Office, the Green Authority found everything in order during the inspections at the company. These checks were carried out during working hours. Unfortunately, outside of work hours, when there is a stench, there is no control, no matter how many times we have asked for them. The municipality of Csömör made measurements, and three test reports confirmed that there was a smell of deponia gas in both Kistarcsán and Csömör. Based on the results, it is clearly classified as disruptive. As far as we know, there's ammonia and hydrogen in the air. The smell of deponia gas refers to the company's technology and activity, so the company can be easily identified. Despite the measurement, the Green Authority does not want to admit that the source of the stench is the local landfill. During the interview with the administrator, there was a suggestion from the Green Authority that the sewer could cause this stench. However, the channel network in Csömör and Kistarcsa is not one, but two completely separate networks, but the residents in the two settlements complain about the same smell. The population kept a stink journal for months, and nearly a thousand signatures were collected in the two settlements. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[21.20]] The author of the letter is deeply outraged by the authority's attitude that the administrator's reply to their telephone complaint on 29 January: he is sick of the fact that the residents call and report their complaints about the stench every day. The administrator in charge is trying to redirect the source of the smell, but it's clearly identifiable. This smell, contrary to the earlier claim of the Green Authority, is not canal, vanilla, no dill and no spice, it is deponia gas. We are afraid of the health-damaging effect, since the regular inhalation of these gases is harmful to the human body. Please, ladies and gentlemen, the main problem with this is that we are not talking about such a case in the country, but, unfortunately, there are a lot of such cases in relation to landfills, and I would add that these people are rightly afraid. It is clear that many waste management companies in the country are simply ignoring the legal background, ignoring the legislation, and ignoring the fact that the Hungarian people's right in the Fundamental Law is that they have the right to a healthy life and environment. That is why I would like to ask the representatives of the government to do everything in their power to investigate such and similar matters, and so that people can live healthy in their own living environment. Listen to the people's call for help, and believe me, the Jobbik will be on it, and in the future, as has been the case, we will do everything we can to make sure that these cases are closed. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-05-214	Thank you very much, Congressman. Although the chairman of the meeting may not comment, I suggest that he ask this question in writing to the appropriate wallet, he must have an answer. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. I wish you a restful good night.
