u2019-03-20-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 10th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Simicskó and Bence Tordai will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and all those who are monitoring our work. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill on simplifying individual administrative procedures will follow up until closure. The government referral is T/5237. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor.
u2019-03-20-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The aim of the bill is essentially to reduce bureaucracy and simplify individual procedures. Accordingly, the proposal proposes simplifications, for example, to terminate certain procedures or to cancel administrative service charges or to facilitate electronic transmission and transmission of information, electronic administration. I would like to highlight some examples of the proposal. Simplification of procedures for travel documents and e-persons. The exchange of travel documents will be exempted even if the electronic storage element of the travel document does not work, similar to the identity card. Although the integrity of the storage element does not affect the validity of the document, it is possible to exchange the document for this reason. The passport application system and the travel document register are renewed. Renewal will focus on electronic transmission and transmission of information in all respects, in line with the expectations set for public administration. Electronic data transfer between authorities will become more widespread, while the disclosures on the paper basis will cease, for example in relation to the Criminal Records Authority and the passport authority. It results in a significant administrative burden reduction for citizens, allowing parental consent to be made by electronic means, replacing the procedure requiring the personal presence of both parents and the parental consent submitted on a paper basis. It is also intended to extend electronic procedures, so that the General Passport Authority and the authority involved in the procedure will be entitled to take more detailed data from the electronic register, such as the full range of data processed in the electronic register and in the registration of paternity recognition declarations, as well as the electronic birth certificate. XII of 1998 on travel abroad By amending the Act between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Australia, the Hungarian-Australian Working Holiday Scheme, announced by the law on the publication of a Memorandum of Understanding on the Programme of Temporary Workers, will be free of charge in addition to personal administration, as well as the issue of the authentic instrument. Successful Hungarian applicants will be issued a visa for temporary work during so-called tourism. The agreement also requires applicants to submit a so-called supporting document. At present, Hungarian applicants can apply for the supporting document only in person at the Ministry of the Interior. The recording of the citizen's address and identity on e-personals and thereby making it electronically readable will facilitate the further electronic administration of citizens using the document. If the consular service learns about a troubled Hungarian citizen or learns about the death of the Hungarian citizen abroad, it shall take the necessary measures to provide assistance and inform the relatives of the Hungarian citizen who died abroad. In doing so, the consular service shall contact the body managing the register electronically in order to locate and identify the relative of the citizen concerned in the personal data and address register, which shall carry out the research and shall also send the identity of the identified relatives to the consular service by electronic means. The body managing the register carries out the above activities during official working hours, but there are frequent cases beyond official working hours where the data of relatives is urgently needed. In order to resolve these cases effectively and quickly, consulates should have access to the data file in which they can carry out their own kin research. By amending the Act on the entry and residence of third-country nationals, the register of travel documents issued by the Alien Police Authority is published in the Central Alien Police Register, the documents issued to the immigrant, established, stateless person and the one-off travel document. This register is also a public official register. These documents are linked to the status of alien police and not all of these persons are listed in the address register and it is therefore appropriate to establish a register. Procedures concerning the electronic information security of public and municipal bodies. In the case of a lower level of safety classification of the electronic information system for designated constituents, the prior authorisation procedure shall be terminated. In such cases, the prior authorisation of the Authority shall not bind the authority which has taken the final approval decision to take its decision. It is therefore proposed to abolish prior authorisation in order to reduce the administrative burden for both the client and the authority. Simplification of the chimney sweeping process. The current system for the supply of chimney sweeping activities will be operational from 1 July 2016, and the amendment will improve the existing system in order to facilitate the identification of the competent chimney sweeping service provider in that area by the customer, thereby making contact and contact easier. Amendment of obligations relating to the provision of electronic administration. It is necessary to require information to facilitate electronic administration, and a specific range of customers under the law are obliged to do so by electronic means. In this context, the non-electronic declaration of rights is invalid, except in the event of a malfunction or breakdown. The duration of the outage shall be published by the e-administration body on its website and on the administrative interface, but not by the central service provider, although the malfunctioning of the service affects all e-management processes. The obligation to do so must also be introduced. Mr President, Dear House, I propose to this House, in the light of the points set out above, that it adopt the bill. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-20-2	Thank you, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Becsó, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-03-20-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us fits in with the government's bureaucracy reduction action programme, which allows citizens to deal with their affairs as quickly, cheaply and comfortably as possible under professional conditions. [[9.10]] It is important that the government does not only one-off, ad hoc, but also continuous, effective, systemic bureaucracy cuts in public administration. These measures not only increase customer satisfaction, but also increase Hungary's competitiveness. I would like to highlight the main procedures for simplifying and amending the draft before us. In order to simplify procedures for travel documents, the exchange of travel documents would be free of charge even if the storage element, i.e. the element containing the information necessary to identify the person, does not work, as is already the case for identity cards. The aim of the project "National Data Property Service Development" is to make it easier, faster and easier for customers to handle their official affairs. The passport application system and the travel document register will be renewed as part of the project. As Mr. State Secretary said, the Government of Hungary and the Government of Australia have concluded an agreement on the temporary work programme for tourists, which allows 200 people to participate in the programme annually on both Hungarian and Australian sites. Successful Hungarian applicants will be issued a visa for temporary work under tourism. The agreement also requires applicants to submit a so-called supporting document. Thanks to the current amendment proposal, the letter of support required for the application can be requested by electronic means as well as personal administration, and the issue of the authentic instrument will be free of charge. The other area of the amendment to the bill relates to the identity card containing the electronic storage element. I believe that it is an important step forward that the electronic identity card contains a record of citizens' address and personal identification, thus making it electronically readable will facilitate the further electronic administration of citizens using the document. An important acceleration and reduction step for public and municipal bodies is that, in the context of procedures concerning the electronic information security of these bodies, the prior authorisation procedure for electronic information systems for designated constituents is terminated. The package before us also concerns the chimney sweeping process. In accordance with the provisions currently in force, it will only determine, in the case of chimney sweeping services which ceased to exist on 1 July 2016, which data and paper documents are to be supplied to the State chimney sweeping body. The draft also sets out in detail the arrangements for the transfer of chimney sweeping service providers which complete their activities due to the termination of the public service contract with the municipality and which continues to be in force after 1 July 2016 or which voluntarily cease or are prohibited by the fire protection authority. Ladies and gentlemen, Please support this bill, which aims to speed up the handling of cases, to rationalise them and to remove any additional burden of obligations, to change them, which constitute an obstacle to the administration of citizens and businesses, and which can be amended by a smooth and efficient administration. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-20-4	Thank you, Congressman Charles Becsó. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-03-20-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/5237. The House is discussing the bill on simplifying certain administrative procedures. Of course, the Jobbik Group supports the legislation by voting in favour of the government in order to bring this proposal to a legislative level. It can be seen from the proposals made over the last few weeks that the government, in preparation for the EU parliamentary elections, is making rather strong proposals to improve the well-being of citizens. In fact, the introduction of this bill suggests that the government should basically aim at simplifying the administration of citizens at this very time. Indeed, there are some new proposals in the proposal that we can say improve the well-being of citizens, but if we look at paragraph 23, we look at it, the majority of them are basically about getting more public and local government organisations to access the data of people electronically, and their work is simplified in transmitting them. So if I wish to take stock of the benefits of this proposal in terms of cutting red tape in the first place, I think that it is the state and the local authorities. But, of course, let us not be squeamish, let us be glad that citizens can sometimes see and enjoy ease in the elements of the bureaucratic institutional system on any, even small, issue. Indeed, the aim of the proposal is essentially to reduce bureaucracy and simplify individual procedures. I'm going to highlight a few of these elements in my keynote speech. The first is the 1990 XCIII on levies. Amendment of Act LXVI of 1992 on the registration of citizens' personal data and address. Amendment to Act XX of 1996 on the identification methods replacing the identification mark and the use of identification codes Amendment to Act XII of 1998 on travel abroad Amendment to Act I of 2007 on the entry and residence of persons with the right of free movement and residence, amendment of Act II of 2007 on the entry and residence of third-country nationals Amendment to Act LXXX of 2007 on Asylum Amendment of law, the system of criminal records, the register of judgments handed down by the courts of the Member States of the European Union against Hungarian citizens and the register of criminal and police biometric data in XLVII of 2009. Amendment of Act L. of 2013 on the electronic information security of public and municipal bodies, amendment of Act LXXXIII of 2014 on the single electronic card emission framework. Amendment to Act CCXI of 2015 on chimney sweeping activities. Amendment of Act CCXXII of 2015 on general rules for electronic administration and trust services. amendment of the law. I would like to highlight the potential of some of the legislative areas in my speech. It appears quite strongly in the proposal, the general passport authority and the authority involved in the procedure will be entitled to more and more access, in particular, to the electronic register, in which the simplification will be to have access to the full range of data processed in the records of the paternity recognition declarations and to receive data from the register electronically from those data. The issue of electronic access to the register will then be relevant in certain details. The amendment of the levy law, so to speak, even in the press, has shown what a great innovation has come about, that the exchange of passports will be free of charge. I assure the public that the government is not so gallant. They only replace the passport free of charge if the card or system was defective and therefore the exchange is necessary, and only the exchange will be free of charge, with emphasis on if the citizen is not responsible for the exchange. [[9.20]] It will also be a very small tax exemption, and this is that the fee for foreign language entries of the previous HUF 2 thousand will be abolished. In fact, with these procedures, there is much more macera than the citizen has to bear, so I think it is natural that citizens should not have to pay a fee or a levy on them separately. There has been a relatively strong innovation in the amendment of the Act on the Registration of Citizens' Personal Data and Addresses. This is the case if the consular service is the 2001 XLVI on consular protection. Act No. 6 Paragraph 1 and paragraph 11 In the course of carrying out his duties under § (1) he is aware of a Hungarian citizen in distress, or is informed of the death of the Hungarian citizen abroad, the necessary measures must be taken in order to provide assistance and to inform the relatives of the Hungarian citizen who died abroad. In doing so, the consular service shall contact the organisation managing the register by electronic means in order to locate and identify the relative of the citizen concerned in the personal data and address register, which shall carry out the research and shall also send the identity of the identified relatives to the consular service by electronic means. The body managing the register carries out the above activity during office hours, but there are often cases, especially on weekends, where there is an urgent need for the data of the relatives and we have not yet talked about the time lag, as there may be problems among Hungarian citizens in various parts of the world. In order to ensure that these cases are resolved effectively and as quickly as possible, consulates should have a data pool that they can access and conduct the research themselves for faster handling. Therefore, the data stored in the historical file is necessary, and this amendment gives consular services the opportunity to access the data file and gives them the authority to obtain the data themselves and does not require the involvement of employees in various governmental bodies in Hungary. I would like to highlight the 1998 XII. amendment of law. In fact, this legislation also provides for the status of beneficiaries. It will result in a significant administrative burden reduction for citizens, so that the parental contribution can be made by electronic means. Many times, it is a problem that both parents must be present in case of minors travelling abroad in order to receive a passport, and this is often very difficult to do, since emigration has brought so many living conditions that parents live thousands of miles from each other. But if this is only in two different parts of the country, it also makes it more difficult to apply for a passport. Thus, making a contribution statement by electronic means will trigger the presence of both parents. I would like to return to the question of the status of guardian. We see that with immigration, migration, the government has given protection status to many third-country nationals. Technically, the number of these procedures has risen astoundingly, and a legal provision had to be made as to how their position, such as travel abroad, could be resolved. This legislation, by showing the status of the beneficiaries and their movement in this place of law, actually settles this kind of issue, because it lacked it. I would like to highlight the 2007 II on the entry and residence of third-country nationals. amendment of law. Here, as we have seen over the past period, the alien police system has been integrated into the police's organizational system, and although the task system remains, there is a more unified organisation surrounding asylum issues. The Part-Register of the Asylum Register shall consist of a bilingual travel document for persons recognised as refugees, a travel document for persons recognised as protected and a special travel document for asylum seekers. It was necessary to extend the scope of this register in order to include all the data that comply with the document security requirements and to allow the necessary transmissions from the register to be made. So, once again, this legislation fills the gap between settling the legal status of increased refugees as a new element. I would like to make a few points about the amendment of the law on chimney sweeping activities appearing as the eleventh bill. The current system of supply of chimney sweeping activities is a system that operates from 1 July 2016 and this amendment, as proposed, improves the existing system in order to facilitate the identification of the competent chimney sweeping service provider in the area by the customer, thereby making contact and contact easier. In recent years, we have seen that the problem has not only been that the chimney sweeping activity has been completely reorganized, there have been state, local government, private chimney sweeps, state chimney sweeps, many times the citizen did not even know who should open the door. But it was also a problem that the chimney sweeping organization could not access the data on who they were looking for when the chimney sweeping activity had to be carried out. Well, this proposal is trying to solve these problems. The fixing of the concept of a procedural area by way of a modification does not change the current supply system described, but helps to identify the eligibility of the different service providers, i.e. to determine in which group of property the service provider may act. As a result of the change, the competent service provider can be easily identified by the client, making contact easier, and the real estate user will have an obligation in the future to inform the chimney sweeping supply organisation of the identity and contact details of the property owner if these data are known to the owner. This means that, today, this place of legislation installs a responsibility for the current owners and users of real estate, i.e. chimney sweeping companies, will have less responsibility to seek out the persons to be contacted to carry out the activity. CCXXII of 2015 on general rules for electronic administration and trust services. Amendment of law is the last one included in this proposal. There are actually two important elements here. One is the need to require information to facilitate electronic administration so that citizens can be informed of the scope of electronic administration and, in this context, the non-electronic declaration of rights, after it is invalid, except when there is a blackout, even when government offices, acting organisations must inform citizens that electronic administration is mandatory and how they can do so. The second is that the duration of the outage is the obligation of the e-administration body to publish on its website and on the administrative interface, but not on the central service provider. However, the malfunction that has occurred to him affects all e-administration processes, so it was necessary to propose that the central service provider should also be obliged to provide information, display it on its website, and thus help citizens to manage them. The information rules will therefore be clarified in this legislation and information should also be provided in the event of changes in the content of the electronic form. This proposal, as a new term, is rare for the introduction of a whole new concept of central public service in such a proposal, which for the first time appears as a new element in Hungarian legislation. We hope that once a new term technician has been introduced as a central public service, it will indeed be a service for citizens for the future and not a nuisance. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[9.30]]
u2019-03-20-6	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea. I now give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2019-03-20-7	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Parliament has already adopted a large number of red tape reduction measures in the previous term. In this context, the House agreed with the Hungarian state's administration reform. One of the aims of the reform of public administration is to simplify or eliminate the administrative burden on a wide range of citizens and businesses. In view of the fact that the administrative burden which also creates payment obligations affects citizens primarily in the form of a levy and an obligation to pay an administrative service fee, many fees and charges have already been abolished. Ladies and Gentlemen, The purpose of this bill is to further reduce bureaucracy and simplify and eliminate individual procedures. The T/5237. The legislative proposal contains simplifications and amendments in respect of the following procedures. On the one hand, with regard to simplifying the procedures relating to travel documents and, on the other hand, with regard to procedures concerning the electronic information security of public and municipal bodies, on the other hand, on the simplification of the chimney sweeping process and, on the other hand, on the amendment of obligations relating to the provision of electronic administration. I would like to touch very briefly on these four issues. In simplifying procedures for travel documents, the exchange of travel documents will be free of charge even if the storage unit does not work, as with the identity card. The passport application system and the travel document register will be renewed within the framework of the project "National Data Property Service Development'. Renewal will focus on electronic transmission and transmission of information in all respects, in line with the expectations set for public administration. It is also intended to extend electronic procedures, so that the universal passport authority and the authority involved in the procedure will be able to carry out their duties in relation to travel documents in a more extensive manner, and they will also be entitled to receive the data electronically from an electronic register. Simplifying the identity card containing the electronic storage element to record the citizen's address and identity on the sig. On the second issue, in the field of procedures concerning the electronic information security of public and municipal bodies, it is appropriate to abolish the prior authorisation procedure for electronic information systems for designated constituents in order to reduce the burden on the client. That is what the bill proposes. In the area of simplification of the chimney sweeping process, the current system of supply of chimney sweeping activities will be operational from 1 July 2016. The amendment aims to improve the existing system in order to make it easier for the client to identify the relevant chimney sweeping service provider in a given area, making contact and contact easier for the citizen. In the fourth area, it is necessary to introduce some new requirements in the area of changes to obligations relating to the provision of electronic administration. According to the law, a specific range of customers are obliged to operate electronically. In this context, the non-electronic declaration of rights shall not be valid, except for the time of malfunction and breakdown. The duration of the outage shall be published by the e-administration body on its website and on its administration interface, but not by the central service provider. However, the malfunction that has occurred to him affects all e-administration processes. The obligation to do so, we see, must be introduced. In addition, the information rules will be clarified if the content of the electronic form is changed. Ladies and Gentlemen, Please support T/5237. The Parliamentary Group of the KDNP supports bill No 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-20-8	Thank you, Congressman Imre Vejkey. I now give the floor to Mr József Tobias, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2019-03-20-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal concerns the detailed rules of a number of administrative procedures, starting with the issue of passports, through the modification of the address register, up to a penalty of HUF 30,000 for the fire protection authority. Most of these can actually result in simplification, easier administration. However, a large part of the proposal also allows for the establishment of new databases that can be managed by the government and the addition of new data to existing databases. However, this is always a reason for caution, especially when it is trying to make its e-personal system work with new technical amendments. The government had a promise, years ago, that an ID card would contain all the important data, so the citizen's ID card, address card, tax card and social security card will be replaced; I will go on: they have agreed that even public transport will be used in a way by the citizen with an e-certificate as a form of BKV pass. Compared to the promises, the reality was far from what they had undertaken, in many cases neither the NAV nor the health clinics could do anything about their e-persons, and the single public transport card remained a dream. The infamous BKK entry gate RIGO project failed, thus destroying the development of billions of forints of public money and years. This is one of the biggest personal data management systems in recent years, which the Parliament should take into account when drafting this law. Government proposals related to data management therefore require a more cautious, a kind of stand-by position on the part of the opposition. However, we support the fact that the bureaucracy reduction that you have set out and a single card system of this kind do exist. For in many countries of Europe this is already standard, it does not work differently, and thus in every individual and every public or administrative procedure, citizens would be able to carry out a much easier, more efficient administration if the single card system were to be established. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-03-20-10	Thank you very much, Congressman József Tobias. I now give the floor to Mr Zsolt Gréczy, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2019-03-20-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Democratic Coalition is also basically optimistic, but it also treats the bill with reservations. After all, any bill that improves citizens' daily comfort, which makes orientation faster in public affairs, which allows faster administration, is basically supported by the Democratic Coalition. It is very important to cut red tape, and it is very important to reduce any payment obligation that is often more of annoyance to the state and minimal income from citizens. These are really worth eliminating. It is important that electronic administration is also constantly broadening for citizens, and this should also be a kind of civil-friendly service in Hungary, either from the issue of passports or from the address card register, or from my fellow Members and the rapporteur to the provision of chimney sweeping data. [[9.40]] However, there is indeed a danger that the government is able to create new databases that may not be suitable for Hungarian citizens to feel safe, and there is also a need for guarantees in this bill that confirm that these data cannot be used in unauthorized hands or in unauthorized use, possibly for abuse, extortion or other purposes. We also consider it very important that, in the past, the Orbán government had a promise that it would have all the possibilities for community transport on a card, the ID card, the tax card, social security, and indeed, as my fellow Member Tobias said, would have been opened up there. The government is lagging behind in this. Perhaps it would be worth consulting, say, the Baltic countries where this has already been introduced and is working well. There may be a reporting system, a data security system or software that has already been able to implement it, and there, in these countries, it works well. Therefore, the basic point of the Democratic Coalition is that we are fundamentally in favour of cutting red tape. We would like to see further details in case there are any amendments to the law, and we would like the government to speed up the process of putting all our data on a card. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of DK, Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2019-03-20-12	Thank you very much, Congressman Zsolt Gréczy. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2019-03-20-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, On the one hand, I thank you for the supporting contributions, even if some of them approach this bill in a rather cautious way, but I definitely think it is a very good thing that the wish expressed by the government on the opposition side is now fully supported so that the extension of the identity card containing electronic data and the full application of this information can start in Hungary. At the time when the e-personal law was brought before the House, there was a great deal of controversy about this personal ID and data processing, and there was a lot of unfounded fear. Obviously, there are fears about data processing today, and this is understandable, because data and personal data are becoming one of the most important values in our era, and it is definitely an extremely serious business value, so the proper handling of this is very important for all of us. No new databases will be created here. In this context, the wider availability of certain databases by public bodies may reduce or reduce administrative deadlines or simplify procedures. I would like to add so much to the use of the electronic ID card that, on the one hand, the failure that has been identified in the proposal regarding the electronic ticket system for transport in Budapest is not connected to the electronic ID card, and it is now turning in the direction that the system to be developed will be fully connected to its e-persons. The condition for the full use of the e-personal system and the extension of the system is that all Hungarian citizens have this personal ID. Obviously, on the other hand, especially among the elderly, there is a type of alienation, but I can say that at the moment more than 4 million 300 thousand e-IDs have been issued. We will come with legislative proposals in the near future, including, for example, that older people who have a valid identity document until withdrawal will get the easiest possible, with the least bureaucracy, or will receive an electronic administration, medical care, prescription replacement, and a tax-tax ID card. So in this, I see that we are making good progress, and the objective of 2021-2022 is that this can be fully achieved, and I still see this as being feasible today. I am sure that these measures will help to cut off unnecessary red tape on the one hand and to spread electronic administration by everyone on the other. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-20-14	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. A general debate on the bill on additional guarantees for the independence of administrative courts will follow up until closure. The submission submitted by MEPs Csaba Hende, Pál Völner and Gergely Gulyás Fideszes T/5241. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to my vice-president, Csaba Hende, the rapporteur on the agenda. You have the floor.
u2019-03-20-15	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Audiotur et altera pars listen to the other party. This sentence, often quoted by lawyers, can serve as a motto for dialogue and the need to achieve balance when a bill on additional guarantees for the independence of administrative courts comes before Parliament. Allow me therefore, ladies and gentlemen, to go along this guiding line and explain how the proposal before you could further facilitate judicial control of the actions of the State by an independent, legal, professional and effective administrative judicial body as of 1 January 2020. CXXX of 2018 on administrative courts. Act CXXXI of 2018 on the entry into force of the Act on Administrative Courts and certain transitional rules. Law, as was said in the expo of Minister for Justice László Trócsányi at the time, is the end of the full creation of independent administrative justice. As a lawyer who had long been interested in the subject, as Vice-President of the Parliament responsible for legislation and as Chairman of the Legislative Committee, I followed the legislative process regarding the establishment of administrative courts with particular attention. I can say with conviction that when, as a result of a five-year professional-scientific process, which was preceded by a decades-old legal and scientific discussion, so as a result of a five-year professional-scientific process, paying back decades of debt and extending back to 120 years of constitutional traditions, the excellent team of experts of the Ministry of Justice prepared the laws necessary for the establishment of an administrative court organisation, it was also the pursuit of dialogue and balance that affected both legislative preparation and legislative work. In the legislative process, this is illustrated by the operation of the expert committee set up by the Minister of Justice from among judges and representatives of legal science to support codification in their professional opinion. The legislative proposals were regular, I would say, a model social consultation, domestic and international conferences in the field, and seven-party negotiations with the parties with a political group in the Parliament, which were not attended by all parties, and there were others who came and then left after a brief political statement, but there was such a consultation, which illustrates the thoroughness and correct professionalism of the preparatory process. [[9.50]] And if my fellow Members look back on the debate in Parliament, they may remember that even at the parliamentary stage, the governing parties adopted a proposal for an amendment to the opposition increasing transparency. The laws were therefore drawn up and adopted in favour of dialogue with the narrower professional public, political actors and the broad public opinion. The content of the laws is also influenced by the pursuit of balance in order to guarantee judicial independence at the highest possible level, but at the same time to lay the foundations of a judicial body capable of guaranteeing effective treatment of administrative disputes. This is also reflected in the fact that, in the compilation of the administrative judicial budget, the judiciary, the judiciary and the minister are given proportionate powers, or that it allows the Administrative Court to refer to a service court if its opinion on the distribution order had not been taken into account by the President of the Administrative Court. It also shows that the powers relating to the training of judges are transferred entirely to the powers of the judges, excluding any influence of the executive authority here. I would like to assure my fellow Members that the government and the governing parties were aware and aware of the importance of the reform. We know and feel the responsibility for the substantive impact of a reform of the judicial organisation on the whole of the application of the law, both from a judicial and administrative point of view. It is therefore extremely important to hear and consider all professional opinions that can confirm and support the legitimacy and international acceptance of this important regulation. This was the aim of the Minister of Justice when he asked for the resolution of the Venice Commission on behalf of the Government when the legislative proposals were submitted. The reporters of the Venice Commission visited our country on 4 and 5 February. The delegation of judges of the German and Austrian Constitutional Court, French and Portuguese lawyers, with whom I was able to meet as Chairman of the Legislative Committee with opposition representatives, did a very high level of professional work. Their preliminary opinion was sent to the government on 4 March this year. Based on this, the following major nodes can be identified. The Venice Commission did not object to the decision of the Hungarian legislator based on our otherwise national public-law traditions concerning the establishment of an organisationally separate administrative court system. It was considered to be fully in line with European standards. In particular, the Board welcomed the legislative solution that would allow the judges of the courts currently in administrative proceedings to automatically transfer to the new court organisation by virtue of the law on their request. In the absence of such a declaration, they may, mutatis mutandis, continue their work in the ordinary court organisation. With regard to ministerial powers in the administration of administrative courts, the Venice Commission recognises the Minister's responsibility before Parliament as a positive aspect of the model. It can therefore be said in summary that the basic elements and cornerstones of both the organisation, the legal status and the administration have been found to be appropriate in the laws, and its proposals can be regarded as corrective and complementary proposals. These relate to the following areas. Firstly, in the selection procedure, clarification of the conditions for derogation from the ranking proposed by the National Administrative Board. Secondly, strengthening judicial participation in the personal council of the National Administrative Judicial Council. Thirdly, the approximation of the procedures for the evaluation of judicial and judicial management proposals. Fourthly, under the conditions of choice for the President of the Administrative Supreme Court, the importance of effective judicial practice and, fifthly, the appeal against individual administrative decisions. Dear Parliament, Together with my fellow Members who tabled the bill, we believe that the recommendations of the Venice Commission highlight how we can make the judicial system of standing up public administration even more effective and how we can provide additional guarantees for the purpose of administrative legal protection and in the light of the principles of judicial independence. Dear House, In the case of the adoption of a complex legislative amendment before you, I repeat all the preliminary statements made by the Venice Commission: it will pass all proposals through the laws as follows. The proposal before us, in line with the recommendations, would clarify and provide additional guarantees for the Minister's role in administrative judicial tendering procedures, thus strengthening the possibility of control. Accordingly, the criteria to be examined in the hearing of applicants will be defined for both judicial and judicial management proposals. In defining competences, we relied on the position of judges and lawyers on the expert committee of the Ministry of Justice. We have sought to identify basic skills and skills that are crucial for judicial ethos and leadership qualities, while at the same time being able to measure well, further increasing the objectivity and transparency of tendering procedures. By clarifying that the provisions on judicial applications also govern court management proposals, the guarantee system of the law will be strengthened in line with the recommendations of the Venice Commission. According to this, if the Minister wishes to depart from the ranking of the judicial bodies during the appointments, namely the staff council of the National Administrative Board, in this case the reasons for the hearing, as well as the considerations of consideration and decision, should be included in the statement of reasons. In addition, applicants who have been ranked by the judiciary to the Minister may appeal to the Service Court against the outcome of the tendering procedure. It should also be pointed out that, although the membership of the National Administrative Judicial Council, which exercises decisive powers in judicial and judicial management applications, has already been ensured by the judicial majority, in a 5:4 ratio, as a result of the amendment of the law in the spirit of the recommendations, i.e. in the spirit of the recommendations of the Venice Commission, the proportion of judges and non-judges will now be 7:4 by the fact that six members are elected by the judges themselves from their own ranks. It aims to strengthen the judicial self-government, increase the counterweight against the executive authority and broaden the powers of the National Administrative Board, so that the National Administrative Board decides to initiate disciplinary proceedings if the suspicion of disciplinary misconduct arises against the administrative court leader appointed by the Minister or the member of the OKBT. Dear House, As recommended by the Venice Commission, the proposal clarifies that the five-year effective judicial practice, which includes periods of service in the Constitutional Court, international and EU courts, is also a fundamental requirement for the President of the Administrative Supreme Court. This would therefore be a full parallel between the status of the President of the Curia and the President of the Administrative Supreme Court. [[10.00]] Finally, on a German model, the amendment of the law creates an institution for redress against administrative measures which violate judicial independence, which, without precedent, opens up the protection of administrative judges against administrative decisions. Dear Parliament, On the basis of what I have said, it is clear that the governing parties are committed to enabling the administrative judicial system to operate in the spirit of the Hungarian Fundamental Law and in accordance with international standards. Remember that in most EU Member States there is and is still a separate system of administrative judicial bodies. When Gergely Gulyás and my fellow Members, Pál Völner, decided to submit the bill before you, we were guided by the aim of supporting the fullest possible compliance of legislation with international standards as a result of a high level of professional work. This effort was also acknowledged and welcomed by the Venice Commission at its meeting. In the current parliamentary debate, we must approach the issue with the professionalism that has characterised the legislative work on the establishment of administrative courts throughout recent years. I am convinced that, through full and full implementation of the recommendations made by the Venice Commission, from 1 January 2020, an administrative court body will be set up in Hungary which will be fully capable of fulfilling its main purpose. As the great lawyer Elek Boér put it, this is nothing more than ensuring the rule of law throughout the administration. I therefore ask my honourable Members, the Honourable Parliament, to support our proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-20-16	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Hende, Mr Vice President. I'll ask him on behalf of the government... I won't ask because I see he's getting ready. Mr. Secretary of State Pál Völner has the floor.
u2019-03-20-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We support this proposal from the government. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: That's it? Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-20-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Becsó, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-03-20-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, One of the basic requirements for the emergence of a state dealing with a wide range of people's affairs was the establishment of an organisation that provides a legal institution for judicial control over public administration. In the past, this demand has not been raised, but with the broadening of the state's area of intervention, people have seen the state more often along their different affairs, unlike before, not only in social and welfare measures, but also in other areas of life. It was a natural consequence of this phenomenon that citizens and public administrations became increasingly involved, and more and more state decisions on citizens' rights and obligations were made. The need to enforce and ensure fundamental rights has brought with it an increasing number of pieces of legislation. Of course, due to the power of the State, the individual's ability to assert interest was much less when it came to controlling, implementing and resolving the legal rules of conduct to be followed. The high number of cases and the excessive force of state power have required the establishment of an independent and specialised independent forum between the parties to ensure that the rule of law is enforced in the balance between the public interest and the individual interest, with an effective administration in mind. This demand brought to life in Europe, including the independent administrative courts in our country. In Hungary, the XXVI of 1896. Act created the Royal Administrative Court, which fulfilled its social function at a high level. Of course, the communist dictatorship, as one of the depositaries of the balance vis-à-vis the state overpower, has also abolished the administrative judicial system. As we have heard in the expozee, we still need this forum of judges to deal effectively with our issues in the balance of public interest and individual interests, with the assistance of an expert judge. In recognition of this, the government submitted a bill for the establishment of the administrative judicial organisation and staff, which was drawn up taking into account professional consultations, social consultations, international comparative trends and general recommendations made by international organisations. The opposition has identified the establishment of an administrative judicial system itself with the cessation of democracy, knowing that this special judicial forum is in place among the Member States of the European Union and demanding the withdrawal of the whole concept. Following the adoption of the bill, the Venice Commission, at the request of the Government of Hungary, examined the provisions of the relevant legislation and put a fully agreed report on the table, in which it acknowledged, among other things, the validity of the ministerial administration. At its meeting on 15 March, the Venice Commission welcomed the fact that the Government of Hungary took its preliminary opinion seriously and clarified with amendments the issues raised earlier in its draft opinion. The proposal before us was presented to the House on the basis of a draft opinion of the Venice Committee, the adoption of which will allow the Parliament to comply with all the comments made by the Venice Commission, thus allowing a system of administrative courts, which will be fully compliant with European values, to take place in the near future. On this basis, we believe that the criticisms and fears raised in relation to the independence of the administrative court will become irrelevant by adopting the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, The legislation on the administrative court has passed through the strictest of the rules and fully complies with the European standards and Hungarian traditions. In view of this, I ask you to support the adoption of the bill with your votes. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-20-20	Thank you very much, Congressman Charles Becsó. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor, Congresswoman. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Mr. President, how much time do I have?]] Fifteen-minute time frame.
u2019-03-20-21	Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We are not surprised at the presentation of the T/5241 bill. During the discussion of the proposal to set up administrative courts, there was consultation in the Ministry of Justice, proposals for amendments were tabled, and very detailed professional positions, listed by opposition representatives in the general and detailed debate, were expressed, however, in addition to a few minor amendments, the government, or, after being shamed, not by the Ministry of Justice, but by a few pro-government representatives, were not essentially able to adapt our proposals to guarantee judicial independence. The law was passed, and then the Venice Commission arrived, and how interesting it was that the Venice Commission brought up the very problems that we ourselves said during the discussions and during the speeches at the meetings. So what happened? The Venice Commission has shared that judicial independence is not guaranteed in this legislation. You may recall, fellow Members, I myself said at the meetings and at the meeting that in the transitional arrangements only the minister had 15 tasks and 47 in the administration of the judicial system. That was all it was, just not the creation of an independent court. And we see in this proposal that the problems or problems proposed by the opposition have been improved almost entirely. Let me just say this, and to be honest, I do not understand why this is so, since the professional competence and quality of the distributors are indisputable, that the explanations given to the proposal are indeed clear, and that the detailed justification does not include even the main elements of the actual content of the amendment in question, but merely indicates that these rules serve to solve the problems raised, but there is no substantive explanation as to why the proposal nevertheless changes the provisions set out in the original proposal. [[10.10]] I also do not understand why, if the Venice Commission has formulated the recommendations, we have only received them from the rapporteur, and I expected the representative of the Ministry to correct this, so that we can read the position of the Venice Commission on the Venice Commission's website, because it is a question of asking the authors to amend the law on the basis of the findings of the Venice Commission. But what would it have cost me to apologize to the Venice Commission's findings and position, at least partially, to the relevant changed legal bases? For then everyone would be in a position to see, without research work, what the objections really were. But let's move forward in the order of the platoons. I'm already signaling that 15 minutes won't be enough, so I'm gonna need another word in a normal time frame. This proposal also introduces a new element, which is most likely not requested by the Venice Commission. This is that the 2011 CLXI on the organisation and administration of the courts. Act 114. § 1 replaces a new provision, the essence of which is that when calculating the judicial service relationship, the experience gained in the international judicial organisation should also be taken into account as a judge, a chief adviser, and as a constitutional judge, as well as in the position of chief adviser in the office of the Constitutional Court. This introduces new elements in a completely different law, but the same element also runs through the law of the administrative court, which means that professionals can and should be involved in the current situation in the judicial system and in the administrative courts, who have not worked in this area, but have such a high level of case law either in the international sphere or in the constitutional court system, which indeed suggests that they are capable of occupying these posts. The Administrative Court Act 25. Paragraph 2 is supplemented by a new point (i), which is essentially about the decision of the OKBT to initiate disciplinary proceedings if the suspicion of a disciplinary offence is raised against the administrative court chief appointed by the Minister or even the member of the OKBT. This is a deficit, there was practically no provision for it, so it would have been difficult to bring disciplinary action if there had been a good reason for it. And then it's the 27th. § (1) is a completely new text of paragraph 1, and this is where the new system that guarantees judicial independence begins in this proposal. If you remember, when we discussed the bill, we stressed very strongly that, in fact, people working in public administration, not only can be judges in this system, but also judicial leaders, which raised quite strongly that party loyalty rather than professional competence could generate judges in this administrative system. Therefore, this new text is about the OKBT holding at least four meetings. Yeah, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I told you later in a platoon earlier. I'm sorry. It's so big, it can happen. So the point is that the problem was, and Vice-President Csaba Hende just said that it was a very serious excuse who we invited to the OKBT meeting and who is actually taking part in what title there. It was so striking that the first person to take part in the meetings of the OKBT with right of discussion was the Minister, as originally proposed. Excuse me. In the meetings of the OKBT, the chief judges of the judicial organization system should be primarily involved, their life is about it, and the minister is not the first and most important. Therefore, in this new regulation, it is stated that the Presidents of the Administrative Tribunals are taking part in this meeting, taking out the Minister as a participant entitled to subject rights, and adding a new section, a new paragraph, in which he says that in the event that an opinion is important for the item under consideration, it is possible to invite the Minister, in particular the Minister, to attend the meeting. Therefore, the Minister should be invited only if the subject discussed there really requires his professional competence or is important in relation to his official activities. The law is 28. § (1) replaces or eliminates the problem that has been raised countless times in the old debate. This was that the staff council of OKBT was made up of eight members, and this would have been done by four members of the OKBT's own members, and four members were different lawyers with outstanding theoretical knowledge or at least one of ten years of legal experience appointed by the Parliament's committee responsible, the Attorney General, the Minister for Public Administration and the President of the Hungarian Bar Association for three years. Technically, it would have been that there could have been a stalemate in the decisions of judges and outsiders, and it was absolutely necessary to resolve this problem. In fact, the proposal tries to resolve it by having ten members of the OKBT personal council, and in this, OKBT's own members, i.e. judges, will be more than outsiders, so there is a good chance that there will be no stalemate and that it will not be possible to stop these decisions from being passed on to outside people. The law is 28. § 9 states that the OKBT Board of Persons is a quorum if the President and five judges and three non-judges are present. The problem so far has been that this council was still a quorum even when the president and three judges and non-judges were present. This means that more judges should now be present at the meeting for the quorum than there are non-judges, so there is a high chance that the interests of judges can prevail in the operation of this organisation. [[Dr. Pál Völner is talking to Csaba Hende.]] Paragraph 1 states that the OKBT Staff Board is a quorum if the President and five judges and three non-judges are present. The problem so far has been that this council was still a quorum even when the president and three judges and non-judges were present. This means that more judges should now be present at the meeting for the quorum than there are non-judges, so there is a high chance that the interests of judges can prevail in the operation of this organisation. (Dr. Pál Völner is talking to Csaba Hende.) The law is 34. Paragraph 3 of the new text is added to the extent that three paragraphs are excluded from the new proposal. Excuse me, Mr. President. You might ask the Fidesz Members and the Secretary of State to press a button, because it is extremely unpleasant to hear them speak out loud, and sometimes I can't even hear my own voice, although this may not be important. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-20-22	You can ask, thank you very much. Go on.
u2019-03-20-23	Yes, so basically it introduces a new rule, and this was also very significant in the debate before the vote on the law, and this was that the government was so distrustful of the President of the future Supreme Court that it could not even establish its rules of organisation and operation, or the Presidents of the Tribunals asked that question myself. Well, see, they can do their own organizational and operational regulations, and they can do it by saying that the 34th is... Paragraph 3 consists of only three paragraphs. In fact, the conclusion is that the rules of organisation and operation of the administrative court are issued by the President of the Administrative Court, and he does not need, as has been the case, to submit to the Minister, to express his opinion, and to experience an extremely difficult procedure for the establishment of an organizational and operational regulation at all. So we're glad to finally put this in its place. The law is 44. §2 of the Act alters, in principle, once again, who can be appointed as such a judge. You may recall that we have given completely trivial examples that everyone can be appointed to the President of the Supreme Court: in fact, in this Chamber, all lawyers would have been able to do so, and at NAV we would have found few lawyers who would not have been qualified. [[10.20]] So he did give us an amazing open field, which, we think, was inappropriate, and so did the Venice Commission. And now the condition is that the President of the Supreme Court is elected by the Parliament from among the judges appointed for an indefinite period and having a judicial service relationship of at least five years. What was the regulation so far? So far, it was regulated that it required at least five years of service in an ordinary court in an administrative or administrative court. What is happening with this proposal? It opens this opportunity to the entire judiciary. So far, it has focused essentially on public administration workers or employees in administrative courts or administrative cases and secondly determined that it could have been possible to appoint a person who had experience in an indefinite period of service and in a total of at least ten years' experience in administrative law. Here, which is another important element, which was first introduced by amending the law on the organisation and service of the court, that when calculating the service relationship, a person working in a certain international judicial organisation or a judge, a chief adviser, a constitutional judge, the Office of the Constitutional Court may be taken into account when they wish to appoint these judges. So the point is that, indeed, now a much larger circle appears in the legislation, from whom it can be drawn, and this new proposal completely leaves the provisions contained in paragraph (2). I wouldn't do that, Mr. President, to the next part, because the 15 minutes are almost up, and I will continue in a normal time frame. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-20-24	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea. I now give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2019-03-20-25	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, it must be stated that the CXXX of 2018 on administrative courts adopted by the Hungarian Parliament on 12 December 2018. The law is a law of great importance to all EU norms, and it is very forward-looking to facilitate the application of Hungarian law. Therefore, it is no wonder that siren sounds appeared against him, whispering to the people that the restoration of administrative courts to the Hungarian legal system would be a wrong direction. They are alarmed because they do not recognize the historical need to restore administrative justice. They are alarmed because Hungarian administrative justice based on Hungarian historical traditions is rejected, despite the fact that in 1949 Russian bayonets destroyed it, bringing in at the same time the communist constitution of Soviet model and content, implementing the communist dictatorship and the anti-national and anti-Christian laws based on it. Ladies and Gentlemen, At the request of the Government of Hungary, the Venice Commission examined CXXX of 2018 on Administrative Courts. CXXXI of 2018 on the entry into force of the Act on Administrative Courts and certain transitional rules. the provisions of the law. In the spirit of constitutional dialogue, in view of the outstanding importance of judicial independence and separation of powers in our constitutional system, it is appropriate to provide additional guarantees and clarifications that will further facilitate the completion of the administrative judicial body, which will be set up on 1 January 2020. The purpose of the century. This bill contains these additional guarantees and clarifications. Ladies and Gentlemen, In the event of the adoption of this bill, Hungary meets the criteria set by the Venice Commission in all respects. At its meeting on 15 March 2019, the Venice Commission welcomed the fact that the Government of Hungary took the Committee's preliminary opinion seriously and clarified with amendments the issues raised by the Panel in its draft opinion. On this basis, we believe that the fears and concerns raised in relation to the independence of the administrative court have been definitively and fully addressed with this bill. Ladies and Gentlemen, Our position as legislators is that the administrative court or tribunal cannot be separated from the rule of law. It cannot be separated because the rule of law itself can also be described as a legal obligation of public authority, i.e. it also assumes the existence of independent institutions controlling the acts of public bodies which trigger legal effects. The most important of these institutions is the separate administrative court. The assessment of administrative disputes requires special expertise and specific judicial attitudes that can protect the citizen against the necessarily dominant authority. Obviously, ladies and gentlemen, this raises the level of legal protection in Hungary. Ladies and Gentlemen, The National Administrative Judicial Council, as the central body of the judicial self-government, provides further guarantees of independence in the event that the suspicion of a disciplinary offence is raised against the member of the OKBT, because the OKBT would decide to initiate disciplinary proceedings on the basis of this amendment. Similarly, the OKBT would decide, under the amendment, to initiate disciplinary proceedings if the suspicion of a disciplinary offence were to arise against the administrative court chief appointed by the Minister. As a further guarantee of the independent functioning of the OKBT, the amendment makes the invitation of the Minister of Justice to the meetings of the OKBT optional instead of the previous permanent invitation quality. The proposal allows the administrative judge to refer certain administrative measures of the President of the Administrative Supreme Court to a court of service. The amendment clarifies the terms of appointment of the Vice-President of the Administrative Court, the President of the Administrative Court and the Vice-President of the Administrative Court, in the light of the conditions for the election of the President of the Administrative Supreme Court, specifying the key judicial qualities to be taken into account by the Minister during the hearing. In order to further enhance the objectivity of the appointments of judges, the amendment sets out what judicial management competences should be primarily assessed in the course of the course and during the personal hearing of the applicant, in addition to the timetable for long-term plans and their implementation. Ladies and Gentlemen, Last but not least, allow Andrea Varga-Damm to answer the question of why the Ministry of Justice did not submit this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and That's why the Ministry of Justice didn't file T/5241. Law No 1 because it would have resulted in an invalidity of public law. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: What?!]] Ladies and Gentlemen, The KDNP parliamentary faction supports the bill. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[10.30]]
u2019-03-20-26	Thank you, Congressman Imre Vejkey. I now give the floor to Mr József Tobias, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-03-20-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. There is no decisive and effective means of limiting the power of the Minister in the appointment of administrative judges. Such a characterisation can be found in the Venice Commission's resolution on the Law on Administrative Courts adopted by the Fidesz-KDNP majority. The opinion of the Venice Commission is justified from the point of view of this bill because the proposal itself has its own general justification that all proposals are made by the opinion and resolution of the Venice Commission. However, even in its title, the proposal ignores honesty and fairness. The title on additional guarantees to ensure the independence of the administrative courts gives the impression and the authors have repeatedly said that we want to agree on additional guarantees, as if the originally adopted bill had any guarantees either as a result of judicial professional independence or as a result of proceedings against the authorities providing protection and support for citizens. Such proposals have just begun to appear in the following resolution of the Venice Commission. It's false because we've never been able to talk about the appearance of independence under the original law. The Act on Administrative Courts provided the Minister with overpowering over the judges. He did so by granting the Minister rights under which the Minister can decide who will be a judge, the Minister decides on missions to various non-judicial bodies, and he exercises employers' rights over administrative tribunals. Moreover, in the personal council of the National Administrative Judicial Council, which, for example, decides on the award of judges, the professional judges were in a minority. On this basis, we cannot talk about the further guarantees of independence; the title of the law would have been more appropriate if it had been written that the first guarantees of the independence of administrative courts or that they wished to submit a bill to reduce the political influence of Fidesz courts. In fact, these guarantees are the first in today's bill or those that reduce political influence, because, as I mentioned earlier, warranty rules were not contained in the law, the Fidesz government could have practically freed itself in these courts. The present proposal therefore sets out how and how the current Parliament intends to create the first guarantees of judicial independence under the influence of the Venice Commission. I must first note that this does not in itself settle all the siren voices, my honourable fellow Member Vejkey, which have been said in the walls of this House and in the committees for the last six months; or the Venice Commission is also equipped with siren voices, as they say the same things, and now we are sitting here, and we are still not looking at the whole spectrum of the issue. It is not worth opening the debate on whether the Hungarian public-law organisation is in place or not, this was not the cornerstone of the debate in the last six months, but rather the fact that this organisation represents the government, or that it will actually act as an interest or representation body of citizens in Hungary. However, it should be appreciated that the Government has heard the proposals of the Venice Commission and is starting to integrate them into this bill. This is justified not only because Minister László Trócsányi has been an alternate of this organisation for eight years, and he is obviously aware of the independence of the organisation, but also because the committee has actually drawn up advice on a professional basis. We can see how and how the proposals put forward by the Venice Commission for this guarantee of independence will transform the system of administrative judicial bodies in order to ensure independence. Some of these recommendations are clearly accepted by the government in the present proposal, so the proposal does indeed improve judicial independence in some places. This proposal does so when, unlike the original text, it amends the composition of the National Administrative Board's personal council so as to make 6 of its 10 members professional judges. As a result, unlike the original law, professional judges will be majority in the staff council of OKBT. That's a very good suggestion. However, it is regrettable that this proposal does this at the expense of lawyers with outstanding theoretical knowledge, takes their place and hands it over to professional judges. In other words, from the three-component system, as the government used to do, he's playing two against each other, but his number doesn't change. Why is it not the proposal most reasonable that instead of theoretical lawyers, you would withdraw from this story a member delegated by the prosecutor's office or the minister responsible for the administration, who may be delegated by the Parliament's Justice Committee? In the latter case, political influence in the staff council would be significantly reduced. Similarly, in order to strengthen the administration of the judiciary, it is also that the rights of the Minister in respect of the rules of organisation and operation of the courts will cease to exist, and only the courts or their advice will ensure that they are issued. It remains a step forward that, in the disciplinary matters of the judiciary leaders, the OKBT's personal council acts itself, strengthening the judicial self-government, and that the Minister of Justice will not be invited to the OKBT meeting on a subject basis, but the Council, if it decides to invite it, may decide to consult without the Minister's presence. Finally, it is a step forward that decisions taken by administrative courts in administrative power, in so far as they violate judicial independence, may be brought before a court. Each of these points is a reaction to the criticisms expressed by the Venice Commission. Unfortunately, however, it must be said that the inclusion of the recommendations of the Venice Commission is insufficient and that the change is largely symbolic. The independence of the courts cannot be measured by taking over a few recommendations from the Venice Commission by kilo while the rest is ignored. The Committee declares that Hungary has a sovereign right to establish an administrative court and to introduce a ministerial administration system. While this has been said several times in this debate, not by reference to the Venice Commission, but to other European Member States, on the part of the governing parties, which the Venice Commission adds, and what the pro-government majority does not like to talk about is that in such cases it is particularly important that the Minister has sufficient counterweight in the management system thus building. However, these balances are still lacking. If you look back at my initial quote from the Venice Commission, which said that there is no decisive and effective instrument to restrict the power of the Minister in the appointment of administrative judges, it can be seen that the system is completely lacking in the counterweights of the Minister's power, not only in our view, but also in the view of the Venice Commission. Similar criticisms can be made with regard to the President of the Administrative Supreme Court. However, his powers have already been partially substantially reduced by the present proposal. The debate is, therefore, that it is not possible to establish the independence of administrative courts by shifting some of the suggestions, so to speak, panels, that would require a much more comprehensive concept which is not included in the present proposal. What are the points that are present in the draft law, which undermines judicial independence to a great extent, beyond the scope of this power? The first and perhaps most important point is the selection of the judge. With regard to the selection of judges, the problem is essentially that the National Administrative Board, acting as a personal council, submits to the Minister a ranking which includes candidates for a particular place of employment in the order of the professional point system by OKBT. [[10.40]] However, the minister can change this ranking practically without any restrictions or sanctions, he can make the last one a first if the last candidate in the ranking has just jumped the 50 percent threshold needed for the application, while the first one has reached 100 percent of the points. Although the present proposal contains amendments on how the Minister is obliged to justify a deviation from the proposed ranking, this is far from enough. The question must be asked what happens if the Minister decides on a purely political basis who will be a judge and his decision is without any professional basis. The answer is that nothing, because the objection to the ministerial decision can only be directed against objective criteria, and the decision of the Minister to change the ranking will not, by definition, be objective, but a subjective decision. In other words, the author refers to aspects that can be retained, to the counterproposal, to the opinion, but which will not be objective, there cannot be an appeal to the Council. It is very interesting to see the relationship between objectivity and the policy of the current government in itself. I would not like to interpret this very broadly, but that this bill does not provide a counterweight to the power of the Minister, that is for sure. It would therefore be particularly important that this provision of the position of the Venice Commission be considered by the rapporteur, since the committee proposes that, if the minister and the court disagrees, the ranking should again be placed at the courts and the courts should have a say in the appointments of judges at this point as well. On this basis, the MSZP proposes that the procedure for the appointment of a judge be changed in such a way that, if the minister disagrees with the ranking put forward by the court, the court can decide once again whether to maintain the original ranking proposed by it or to agree with the arguments put forward by the Minister? They shall also specify the objective conditions under which the Minister may derogate from the original ranking. Finally, provide an opportunity to appeal to whom the court or minister puts at the top of the ranking in the event that the Minister or the OKBT's personal council has decided not to put him first. This would also eliminate the Minister and the Council's powers. The second problem is the appointment of the heads of the courts, namely the administrative tribunals. In their case, the Minister also has the power of appointment. With regard to this power, the Venice Commission notes that it is difficult to legitimise, justified, given the political sensitivity of the position and the broad rights of the Minister. It is difficult to disagree with this proposal, and it should be considered that the appointment of the Head of the Court should be accompanied by the President of the National Administrative Board and the Administrative Court in such a way that they can be a true counterweight to each other. Finally, the third problem relates to the donation of the title. This title shall be donated by the Minister on a proposal from the President of the Administrative Supreme Court. However, this is highly objectionable, as the Venice Commission points out in its file, the title itself can be a reward for the system's loyal service, which may affect judges, but in fact may pose a threat to judicial independence. It makes it even more clear if we consider that the title is due to a raise in salaries and, moreover, it is particularly significant. In this case, if the possibility of donating such a title is opened, it must be ensured that this is most free from political influence. On this basis, the bill should grant OKBT the right to donate the above-mentioned title instead of the Minister. The solution is not foreign, since in the current court system title donation falls within the competence of the judicial council there. These conditions are not sufficient, but it is absolutely necessary for the Venice Commission's recommendations to be taken into consideration in substance by a proposal to the House on the actual guarantees of their independence in relation to administrative courts. Thank you for listening.
u2019-03-20-28	Thank you, Congressman József Tobias. I now give the floor to Mr Zsolt Gréczy, the lead speaker of the DK Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-03-20-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, First of all, let us start with the political circumstances under which this amended bill has come before this House, which the Venice Commission has bravely canceled. You have already announced here loudly, it is completely pointless what the opposition is saying, what the various opposition groups are making up; you have said that these are unnecessary, pointless, useless, and that the law is good as it is. Well, it turns out it's not. That's one of the important circumstances. Another important factor is that millions of Hungarians do not feel legal certainty in Hungary at the moment. And this is not only about the creation of a new structure, the administrative court, but also about the fact that Hungary's main prosecutor is currently a former Fidesz candidate, Péter Polt, who is now on the way to admit in a reply that election frauds have occurred in Hungary with Ukrainian votes, and nothing is happening. Well, what kind of legal certainty is this in Hungary when he himself acknowledges that these election frauds have taken place, and then there is no legal consequence? ! I would add that in the history of the European Union, I cannot say much that a Member State has been caught in election fraud, but this has also been achieved during the Orbán government. This is also a legal circumstance in Hungary, which undermines legal certainty in Hungary. And then I didn't mention the decisions of the same Attorney General that he wouldn't initiate any legal proceedings against leading Fidesz politicians, even if they made a substantive report on the corruption cases of opposition politicians in pro-government politicians. And the same government does not take into account the fact that the European Union's anti-fraud office is bringing proceedings against Viktor Orbán's son-in-law, and the Hungarian prosecution finds nothing in this case, while all documents have been handed over by the anti-fraud office and are making EU money worth HUF 13 billion on Viktor Orbán's son-in-law. This also undermines legal certainty in Hungary. It is also not good for legal certainty in Hungary that not only a Fidesz candidate sitting at the head of the prosecution, but also the wife of a Fidesz MEP sitting at the head of the courts, a certain Szájerné. This also undermines legal certainty in Hungary. If you pro-government representatives don't like this criticism, then I suggest that you just think about it if it happened during another government, say, during a socialist-free democratic government, you would have appointed a former socialist candidate as the chief prosecutor and appointed the wife of a politician of that time in SDS to lead the courts, you would have already set the city on fire if that had happened. And I would just like to point out that under such legal certainty, you are introducing this amended administrative court proposal. But that voters who are following us understand what it is all about, what this administrative court is about: from now on, it will be exactly from the entry into force, if someone disputes the decision of the tax office, the decision of the police, the decision of an election committee, then they will be able to turn to this court. But even suing for information of public interest will be a matter for this court. So the law that stands before us is very heavy. [[10.50]] It is indeed a law of weight that offers the government the opportunity to gain further influence on court decisions. Even if they say the opposite and claim it, it's true. And it is not only because the Venice Commission has stated so, but also because it is your legal world and all that they represent about legal independence, it is quite simply contrary to what is customary in normal states and democratic states. It is no coincidence that this is, among other things, an indictment against you, against the Orbán regime in the European Parliament, and this is one of the accusations of why you have been condemned by the European Parliament, including by strong vote in the People's Party. The Venice Commission has concluded on this proposal, which has been amended, that there is no effective system of brakes and balances, and that there is a concentration of very extensive powers in the hands of the Minister. There are no effective brakes and counterweights in this system. The Minister is given opportunities to appoint and promote judges that are far beyond what would be possible in a normal rule of law. This raises doubts about the lack of genuine redress procedures. I must say, there is no guarantee that these administrative courts will make decisions impartially and objectively. We are in a position at the moment that the strong criticism that the Venice Commission has formulated may begin to be cosmeticated by this, by the way, is the official opinion of the Hungarian Helsinki Committee, that cosmetics can start in this story, but it is a real decision that would reassure voters and all those who would turn to these bodies in court cases, in which they cannot find the right guarantee, and not just legal but political guarantees. I would like to further detail the very sharp criticism of the Venice Commission. The new law places great power in the hands of very few leaders, so there are no brakes and balances limiting power. The report mentions that eight years ago, the same problems were mentioned once in the context of the 2011 judicial reform by the Venice Commission and now, in part, the same problems are coming back. The Venice Commission also notes that the Minister of Justice has too much power to appoint judges, careers, promotion of leadership, increase their salary, without real redress. In several respects, the Minister of Justice would have more power than Tünde Szájerné Handó, President of the National Court Office currently in charge of the administration of the courts. When the courts were set up, the minister had great power in the initial period. It also includes the determination of the size of the courts and the excessive influence of the choice of the Presidents of future judges and courts, and there are no adequate guarantees attached to this. Therefore, following the Venice Commission, the Helsinki Committee also asks the Government to review the law. Further amendments and guarantees are needed in order to strengthen and stabilise people's awareness of the legal certainty of voters, because under these circumstances they will simply think that by a minister who will move to Brussels soon as a Member of the European Parliament... the question itself raises a question of what kind of minister will supervise and implement future appointments. This minister will, to say the hard line of Fidesz, or he will be a minister who, after any decision made by a European People's Party, can, after all, take decisions under some kind of supervision that could affect the judgment of administrative courts. There is no doubt that people who can be led by such courts, or even directed, will be able to send important lawsuits to such courts... and I am not talking about hen trials, but lawsuits that would call into question the election committee's decision, or, say, a tax decision. So we need additional guarantees so that these courts can operate independently. These guarantees are certainly not at our disposal at the moment, and this is supported by the everyday feeling of the voter's rights. We therefore call on the Government to take the proposals of the Venice Commission very closely into account and take every step to ensure that the minister's powers of appointment and control are limited, in particular, that no Fidesz party soldiers are placed in the administrative courts, because it is in no way good for the already damaged Hungarian legal order and Hungarian legal certainty to be affected by further unpleasant blows. All Hungarian citizens have the right to this security. The Democratic Coalition cannot support this law in its current form. Thank you very much. [[Applause for DK and Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-20-30	Thank you, Congressman Zsolt Gréczy. I now give the floor to Congressman Bence Tordai, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-03-20-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Citizens, First of all, let's be clear about what we're talking about. Contrary to the title of the law, it is not the amendment of the law on administrative courts, but the law on Fidesz courts. Why do we call these Fidesz courts? Because if there has been a dispute between citizens and the state in Hungary so far, it has been dealt with by independent courts, including judges specialised in public administration, who have decided on these matters. From now on, if the citizen has a problem with the police, the tax authorities, electoral bodies or any public body, he will no longer face the independent courts, but the Fidesz party state. From this point on, there is no chance that the Hungarian citizen will be able to find full justice against the Hungarian State in the justice system. From now on, it's not a judicial system, it's just a judicial system. But the thing is, they can't even maintain the appearance of the rule of law. Let us start by saying that the Fidesz Courts Act was tried by the Fidesz-KDNP majority at the Parliament meeting on 12 December, which was conducted in a completely illegal manner. So all the laws that were then voted on are considered invalid by public law. Indeed, this public-law nullity can be increased and added. From now on, it really doesn't make sense to change something that doesn't exist, but now there's a law amendment like this in front of this House. We can say that the Fidesz Court Act, in terms of democratic values, is a freak who is now trying to sell something or at least pretend to have been tamed. But the thing is, if I put Frankenstein's monster in makeup, it doesn't make him a shiny queen, it leaves the same monster with some powder on his face. It's about this powder we're seeing right now, it's the little package of communication tricks and some tactical concessions that we're looking at right here in front of this House. Let's see how László Trócsányi Minister of Justice has said about this. In commenting on the position of the Venice Commission, MTI reported that the Venice Commission welcomed these proposals and, at the Minister's request, modified its former press communication containing criticisms only, indicating that if the legislative amendment to be submitted to Parliament was accepted, its criticisms would become irrelevant. The Minister said it was important to stress that Hungary meets the criteria set by the Venice Commission in this case. On the other hand, what did the Venice Commission really say? Their exact sentence is that if the amendments are accepted, some of the Committee's critical remarks will become irrelevant. [[Dr. Pál Völner: The majority!]] [[11.00]] So the Orbán government is doing the usual peacock dance again, and they're doing it again, they're giving in on a few minor cases, and there's actually no response to any substantive criticisms. The most problematic points of the law have not been modified. Let us look at what the Venice Commission believes these are fundamental concerns. It is said that it places too much power in the hands of very few leaders, and lacks the brakes and counterweights that restrict power, as they have already said about their judicial reform of the 11th, and now the situation is worsening. The Venice Commission says that the Minister of Justice has too much power over the appointment and career of judges, the promotion of leadership, the increase in their salary, without real redress. So it is entirely up to the self-consciousness of the minister appointed by Fidesz who can judge the administrative courts in Hungary. If it's not a party state, it's nothing. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The Venice Commission stated that the Minister would have more power than the President of the National Court of Justice, and that when the courts were set up, the Minister had too much power during the initial period to determine the size of the courts, to select judges and leaders, and there are no guarantees here. There are only two or three points to recognise the virtues of this draft, where there is a positive shift, but the rest is an empty reference to judicial independence. The fact is that the Minister of Trocsányi himself can refer to nothing other than such, that judges must take an oath. Well, it's wonderful, really. Are we basing the independence of the courts on the word of the judges instead of giving them institutional guarantees? It's quite amazing, quite ridiculous. And I don't know which one of you here risked saying that it would have been a public-law problem if the Ministry had filed this amendment. Congressman Vejkey? [[For signal:]] Yeah. [[Dr. Pál Völner: The law on legislation should be read.]] While Csaba Hende discussed at the beginning what a broad social consultation, what a thorough debate preceded this referral, any substantive debate would have been possible if the Ministry had put these amendments in the name of Minister Trócsányi. Compared to this, it has again come before the House as a motion for individual representatives, which, by definition, makes social debate impossible. There was no such thing, and we can see that one day after the publication of the relevant comments of the Venice Commission, we have already been able to begin the general debate here. So again, he's using the government's information advantage to spin this topic around in case it gets less awkward. I'm telling you, it's still very embarrassing. Let us see what is the strongest argument for Minister Trocsányi, why this will still be independent, why this will still be a rule of law, why this will be a democratic institution. He said in his interview with the People's Republic, and I quote literally: "I think that constitutional responsibility should be ensured in the establishment of a new judicial system, and that can only be achieved through an interoperable minister. The responsibility of the Minister of Justice, as I said, can be claimed before Parliament. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So you think that interpelling the Minister of Justice here will ensure the constitutional legitimacy of the entire administrative court system. It is quite ridiculous, quite amazing, knowing that zero opposition interpellation can find majority support. Each time, the majority of the button-printing droid Fidesz-KDNP accepts the ministerial response. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You're a droid.]] This whole reference to an empty institution makes it completely transparent that it is indeed the growth of a new tentacle of the Fidesz party state, which this time strangles the Hungarian court system. We see what László Trócsányi received as a reward for this excellent work from Fidesz. He will lead the Fidesz EP list, and even, as the Fidesz President said, he will be nominated as a member of the European Commission. It seems that in Fidesz the destruction of the rule of law and democracy, depravity, lies and cynicism are greatly rewarded. We can also state that those voting for the Fidesz EP list are voting for the destruction of the rule of law and democracy, despicableness, lies and cynicism. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Be more discreet!]] Thank you very much.
u2019-03-20-32	Good afternoon. As you can see, we have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Venus Anett. Here you go.
u2019-03-20-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me begin by saying that the title of the item on the agenda is absurd, and I quote:. The additional guarantees guaranteeing the independence of the administrative courts. This institution essentially carries a complete lack of independence. It is the institution of the administrative courts that you have broken down the centuries-old unity of the three branches of power. [[Dr. Pál Völner: What about socialism?]] And basically a section of the justice system has been pushed under the government, under the executive authority, in which we are discussing the matter of the state versus the citizen, as well as the matter of the state versus the private company. This means, therefore, that the courts under the government will be able to bring justice to citizens with whom the state institution has committed some injustice. I go on to the institutions which have declared a total lack of independence, for example, one of which is that the Minister of Justice will decide who can or may not be a judge, overruled the decision of the democratically functioning institution of the National Council of the Court of Justice. In addition, the Minister may decide to promote someone or raise their salary. I can only interpret it as a complete lack of independence. In addition, because my fellow Member argued that the necessary professional and social debate had been conducted, the government left only five days for the social debate to take place, within five days there were two weekends. I would also like to draw the attention of the pro-government fellow Members and the Secretary of State to the fact that the basic legislative package was adopted in such a way that it was completely irregular. This was the day of the meeting on 12 December, when, by the way, our voting machines also worked when our cards were pulled out of them, and otherwise there was such confusion in the room that it was not certain that all Members knew when they were voting on the law. You could not ensure this, and the chairman was not in his seat, and I would like to draw attention to the fact that there was no opposition notary at this meeting. [[Dr. Pál Völner: The house rules must be read!]] So I would like to draw attention to the fact that it was worthy of the system of national cooperation that the law on administrative courts was adopted, and it is also worthy of the system of national cooperation, as you think of independence. This is no different with freedom, security or solidarity. As a liberal, I'm used to the fact that the rights and dignity of citizens in the illiberal state are not respected. Thus, it is no exaggeration to say that the system of administrative courts and the amendments that are currently in front of us only fit into the otherwise loathing behaviour that you continue to show towards citizens. I think that the institution of administrative courts is completely unacceptable. The fact that there are various amendments to this area does not change the fact that such an administrative court system simply does not belong to the European Union; but the Hungarian government, the current Hungarian government, certainly does not. It is therefore no coincidence that today, for example, the debate on exclusion from the People's Party will determine European public life. So I think that it is not only worth considering that the entire package of laws should be withdrawn, but I say that it is an outrage that they are trying to cosmeticate in such a way that, by the way, one section of the justice system is pushed under the executive authority. You are also violating your own Fundamental Law by failing to comply with the principle of the separation of the three powers, and rather than admitting that, you are trying to say that opposition representatives are lying about this law. I think that's unacceptable. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You don't understand.]] [[11.10]]
u2019-03-20-34	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, This would be a two-minute speech, but since there is neither a candidate nor an encouragement, I can give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, as a representative of the LMP. Here you go.
u2019-03-20-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, LMP has repeatedly stressed that separate administrative jurisdiction is not inherently wrong, and it is a fact that, since the change of regime, the situation of administrative jurisdiction in the court system has been unworthy and unthinkable. The LMP is also aware of the current obstacles to adequate control over the legal functioning of the public administration, but the long-standing need for systemic change cannot legitimately justify an administrative court system capable of increasing government influence and reducing the independence of courts. This is the case, in our view, and this does not change substantially either with the current proposal of the Venice Commission or with the legislation before us which partially addresses previous criticisms of the opposition, with amendments to the bill being welcomed in many respects in themselves. According to the bill, for example, if the suspicion of a disciplinary offence is raised against the member of the judiciary, OKBT, the OKBT will decide to initiate disciplinary proceedings. Similarly, the OKBT will decide, under the amendment, to initiate disciplinary proceedings if the suspicion of a disciplinary offence is raised against the administrative court chief appointed by the Minister. This is positive, as the new regulation has so far granted ministerial powers specifically equivalent to those of the President of the OBH on the initiative of disciplinary proceedings. This, taken in conjunction with the underlying rules, would have meant that, like the President of the OBH, the minister would be able to keep renitious judges in check by initiating disciplinary proceedings and, in other cases, initiating disciplinary action with regard to the leaders appointed by him. Recently, these tools were preferred by Tünde Hando in the angry OBH-OBT conflict. The amendment will certainly help to avoid this. It is also to be welcomed that, according to the bill, the Presidents of the Administrative Courts themselves would issue their rules of operation and organisation and should not be subject to the approval of the Minister of Justice. This will, of course, strengthen the administration of the judiciary and deserve support. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal isn't basically what it contains, but what's left out, which is what's in it, it's good, but it's not enough. For example, the increase in the proportion of the members of the judge in the OKBT staff council proposing the appointment of an administrative judge and in the opinion committee during the transitional period from 5:4 to 7:4, compared to one person delegated by the Parliament, the Government, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Bar, i.e. the majority of the members elected by the judges. This is positive, but the selection of non-executive members is still inadequate. According to the LMP, in view of its political function, only a limited parliamentary commission for the selection of members with adequate professional and personal integrity and independent constitutional actors should be involved in the selection of non-executive members instead of the chief prosecutors who have been the main subject of the prosecution's activities which have been the subject of administrative litigation. It also covers the fact that the amendment defines qualifications in professional competence, expression and decision-making and substance perception, which are taken into account by the Minister in the appointment procedure during the hearing. These aspects should also be reflected in the justification for a ministerial decision other than a ranking. However, this is still small and the substantive discretion granted to a member of the government as regards the appointment of a judge or a court leader is unacceptable even in the form of a bill. In the ordinary court system, the President of the OBH also has the opportunity to appoint a second or third-ranking candidate, but only with the agreement of the judicial self-management body. On the other hand, the new system still gives the Minister the right of discretion in the matter of appointment of a judge without the right of veto of the judiciary, although the minister is bound to a range of candidates considered suitable by the judiciary, as candidates representing at least 85% of the highest points or at least 50% of the points. It is also obliged to explain explicitly, but it is partly subjective in terms of, for example, the ability to see the essence. Dear House, The foundations of the LMP are the following in relation to the effective legal control of the executive power, free from power policy objectives. The need for professional administrative experience justifies, of course, the entry of judges from the public administration into the system, but for example, in addition to judges dealing with second-degree administrative cases, only persons with at least five years of first-degree administrative judicial practice may be appointed. In addition, in view of the Hungarian administration system, which has been politicised to the present extremes, quantitative restrictions are needed to ensure the independence of the judiciary against the uploading of the judiciary. We consider it necessary to tighten the rules on conflicts of interest. He should not be an administrative judge who has been party official in the last five years, he has been elected as party candidate, he has served as state leader, as well as as as a government commissioner, prime minister, ministerial commissioner or government commissioner, as well as as as a public office to which Parliament elected him. It is recommended that without judicial practice, it is possible to become a leader outside the judicial system, but this requires at least three years of uninterrupted judicial practice. The judicial self-management powers of at least the same weight as those of the President of the OBH are required against the judge-designing committee or the President of the Administrative Supreme Court. In addition, the judicial tender procedure should be fully transparent, in particular, for criteria, criticisms, scoring and for applications themselves. In order to prevent a subsequent stealthy, government-friendly extension of powers, the powers of the administrative courts should be limited in substance to the review of the administrative decision. In line with the position expressed earlier by the LMP, we are presenting appropriate amendments to the current bill, which eliminate the substantial discretion granted to the Minister on the appointment of judges and judges, propose independent constitutional actors to involve the politicised parliamentary judicial committee and the chief prosecutor for the prosecution's activities, which are one of the important subjects of the disputes before the administration, and impose a conflict of interest requirement on the President of the Administrative Supreme Court, which restricts party political influence. The LMP can only support administrative judicial corrections in which these fundamentals can be fully implemented and where the corresponding amendments are accepted by the majority of governments. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-03-20-36	Thank you very much. And now, the representative of Jobbik, Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go.
u2019-03-20-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'll pick up where I left off my speech as a keynote speaker. There are still a few sections in which it is worth talking about the amendments. Article 47 of the Administrative Act. A new paragraph 6 is added, which, by the way, I believe, is indeed a forward-looking measure, since judges who are victims of an administrative measure resulting in an infringement of judicial independence may object to it. [[11.20]] The proposal states that, in order to ensure the principle of judicial independence, if the administrative judge considers that an administrative measure taken by the President of the Administrative Court directly affecting him has resulted in an infringement of his judicial independence, he may request the Court of Service to determine this within 30 days of the notification of the measure, but not later than 90 days. This is a very forward-looking proposal, although I think, knowing the creative team of this legislation, I believe it was essentially done because it is proposed to be adopted because it is most likely that the Venice Commission has made such serious findings and requires that judicial independence be fully enforced here, which the rapporteur believes will be able to resolve. The law is 50. §2 of the Act would enter into force with a completely new text as of 1 January 2020 on the drawing up of the appointment to become Vice-President: who can take part in this work, who could be appointed, and here the fundamental amendment is to open this possibility to the entire judiciary, with at least five years of judicial practice, and to highlight other professional backgrounds such as administrative law enforcement activities, such as case-law periods acquired in the field of administrative law, such as prosecutors, prosecutors' employees, lawyers and lawyers. So it opens this future position to much larger groups of careers, which is, in fact, to be welcomed. Just because Minister Trócsányi said at his second hearing in 2018, before him in 14 that he wanted the course of justice to be more open to the entire qualified legal society. Article 51 of the Administrative Act. Paragraph 1 of this Article has also become a completely new text, so they have completely redefined so far, which is also about who can be appointed President of the Administrative Tribunal or Vice-President, and the whole point of this is that it does not narrow it down to judges in the administrative field, but opens it up in the entire spectrum. Article 68 Paragraph 3 of Article 3 also enters into force with a new text, which is basically about trying to put the selection system on a new basis not so successfully, and another 72/A. § will also be in this new law, where additional guarantee rules will be drawn up. (a) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) A new paragraph 3 is added, which, I think, is another provision which seeks to remove such a Venice Commission, which says that during the hearing, in particular, the applicant's professional readiness, manner of expression, and decision-making and substance perception must be assessed. So this means that, so far, the minister has actually set up any system of considerations when the selection hearings have taken place, but at least now the legislation provides some kind of criteria for what to pay attention to, and it should not be important to know what kind of ankles he wears, what color shoes he wears, and whether his face is pretty, but these important conditions must be met. Seventy-two. Paragraph 2 is once again a whole new text compared to the original text, which says that if the Minister does not agree with the ranking proposed by the OKBT Staff Board after the hearing on the basis of the specified criteria, he may change it with written justification and, of course, the proposal for the appointment of a non-judged person on the basis of the changed ranking will be put forward to the President of the Republic, who, if he is already a judge, will decide on his new position. So far, it has been that the minister listens and then does his job. At least now it has been included in the legislative text that these have to justify, on the basis of compliance with the above-mentioned eligibility criteria, why they are changing the ranking. And then another guarantee element is added here: if you do not agree with the ranking, you do not ask for the first one to be appointed or assigned to your new place of duty, but he can change that, then the justification must cover what. This is what this legislation is trying to do, a little more precise, a little more binding on the minister's hand. And then comes this one 72/A. a new section, which is actually about notifying applicants of the result and if they do not propose or allocate the first-ranked candidate in accordance with Article 72. § 6 justification, the Minister shall send and publish on the website of the administrative courts. In the event of a successful tender, the applicant may object within a period of 15 days from the publication of the decision on the appointment of the successful tenderer in the Hungarian Gazette or the publication of the decision on the position of the successful tenderer in accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article. Here there are various objective criteria, as one of my fellow Members said earlier, perhaps József Tobias, that these objective criteria, which must be met to make an objection, are not sufficient, since the decision is definitely subjective, so he can formally submit the objection, but there is a good chance that they will not be considered positive, because we are likely, or at least hope that, in the selection system, at least the objective criteria will be met. Then there's the rules of detail, and then there's the 76th. § 1 enters into force with a new, entirely new text, and additional competences should also be assessed for hearing applicants, and these competences are explained in several points. In fact, it can be said that it is a good thing that something is being amended, since at least we can talk about the fact that the original administrative law did not in any way comply with the fact that independent justice can really maintain its decades of tradition. I would like to say a few thoughts on what I think about this new proposal, by the way. First of all, I would like to say that everyone knows that in the Ministry, Dr. Barnabas Hajas was appointed to coordinate this activity, that is where the original administrative law was drawn up, and now this amending proposal. Everyone knows that the authors didn't make it, nor did they do it, and even the basic work that had to be done was done by the Ministry's staff, and if you remember, the justification for the bill on administrative court was practically an international look-out that would have been equivalent to about three PhDs. In this way, I must say, it is particularly offensive to Members of Parliament that Mr Secretary of State, when asked what he would say about the proposal, stood up and said that he agreed with him. You've had so much of your words and your work today. [[Dr. Pál Völner: I am also a rapporteur.]] I think that this is an explicit violation of Parliament's authority, a violation of Parliament's authority, because we all know that both of your ministry's proposals are both, and we know precisely that there is a Commissioner for Ministers, who is sitting here in the box. My apologies, Mr Secretary, if you are able to declare your suitability to me from week to week, at least do so by adding three sentences to why you agree with this proposal. It's a fake charade going on here, and I gotta tell you, at your level, it's not worthy of that. And let me ask you one more thing: if you agreed, because you weren't too talkative when the original administrative court proposal came in, if you agreed, and you said at our personal meeting that everything was okay with him, then why do you agree with that? Well, if it was okay then, it's okay now, it's okay. Is that okay? Well, then tell me why, if you agreed then, why, if you agree now, and if you agree now, then why didn't you raise it as a ministry, because the authors are Members! [[11.30]] If you agree with them then how can you agree with them now, if you think it was good? There's something logical about it. My colleague Bence Tordai just told me what Minister Trócsányi said after meeting the Venice Commission. My fellow Member, although he did not give a real presentation, I found another statement, which says that the Venice Commission has been decommissioned. This sentence is important to me because that sentence characterizes government. Cynicism, contempt, pity, disregard, everyone doesn't want to use inappropriate words, of course, but I'm going to describe it, everyone knows less than we do, everyone's more worthless than we are, we're the knowers of everything, only the truth that we say, and then when we face the fact that we don't, then there's another pitiful style. Please, we are part of an EU system, we must adapt to the institutional system and adapt to the requirements. I would very much hate for such a mentality to come before this House, and I must say, without hearing it, it is ringing in my ear when this proposal has been made, that we will push this, and then we will remove the Venice Commission, and we will show that we have done something that guarantees independence. By the way, my fellow Members spoke about the title of this proposal, and basically highlighted the fact that there are additional guarantees guaranteeing independence. My problem is not in itself that there are additional guarantees, but that it is a shame in a European Union country that such a title should be given to amendments before the entry into force of a court organisation. Isn't it natural for the courts to be independent? ! Is it not natural that I have already created legislation in which the issue of independence cannot be questioned? Rather than admitting it, this is simply a statement that the first legislation is inadequate to establish judicial independence from it, it is nothing else. It's an amazing confession. I'm glad to hear you say something. But I am sure that the many other problems raised in the Venice Commission report are unfortunately not covered by this proposal. My fellow Member, Erzsébet Schmuck, pointed out that there is a problem not with what is in it, but with what is not, it is still the same head of the Supreme Court as the OKBT. So it really is a much greater power than the power of Tünde Hando in the entire judicial administration system. For example, this issue has not been resolved. They have not solved a number of questions that, I believe, will fundamentally question independent justice in this organization in the course of its operation, even if at least the rule has been introduced here, so that if the judge feels that an administrative measure has been taken against him in violation of his judicial independence, he can at least speak up. I have to say, I don't think a lot of people are going to speak if that happens. By the way, I would like to say that it is March 20th, and we do not really see how this system will enter into force on 1 January, given that the buildings are not ready, neither the infrastructure nor the personnel, and given your organisational and logistical capabilities, I do not think that this will be completed in nine months. So I'm really looking forward to seeing if this system actually stands up on January 1st. In any case, I ask all those responsible for this, to do it already... they were not siren voices, because we can see that the objections were not siren voices, they were real, and Hungarian opposition MPs can be proud to have formulated professionally sound criticisms, because a committee of such high authority, such as the Venice Commission, stressed the same thing. In this way, of course, we will consider whether we will vote in favour of this proposal, since we have not voted in favour of the Administrative Court Act. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] this will be the music of the future, but in any case, it would be better if the full resolution of the Venice Commission were reflected in the amendment. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-20-38	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Völner has applied to speak on behalf of the government. Please, before I give the floor, as other Members of Parliament have not applied for a statement, there is a way to reply as rapporteur. [[Csaba Hende reporting.]] By the way, if you share that, I see Congressman Hende, Mr President... [[Csaba Hende: At the end. After the lockdown. Dr. Pál Völner: We share.]] Okay, then you can speak for the government first, and then Mr. President, as rapporteur at the end, as closure. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-03-20-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Without the need for completeness, I would respond to some of the things that have been said. I would like to reassure the Member that the original proposal also fully stood up to the international comparison, so there was nothing more restrictive and stricter in it than the German or Austrian or other samples that we have studied from the region. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] That's one part of it. Why we are here today and why the amendment is in front of this House? Minister, he has sent this adopted law to the Venice Commission and said that we are looking constructively at the proposals of the Venice Commission. Constructivity is demonstrated by the fact that this amendment is here today in front of the House and we can discuss it. The other part is that the Ministry itself couldn't present it. If we study the law on legislation, then we can see from it that the government did not have enough time for the necessary negotiations, but we wanted to indicate the points that would come before the Venice Commission's decision. This has happened, and practically the amendments that are here can be fully accepted. Indeed, it is important to increase guarantees, of course, in the guarantee the sky is the limit, of course. We can also say that the courts will receive HUF 100 billion and do whatever they want is a full guarantee, because we practically do not know what will happen. But there was such a concern as to how these courts would stand from 1 January. There are administrative and labour courts operating within the judicial body, we can see that those judges can easily, simply by transfer, come through the administrative court system, there we have the buildings, we have the information technology, we have all the tools we need. The OBH is currently carrying out these preparatory work, which is necessary for the functioning of these courts, and will operate as of 1 January, I would like to reassure the Member. Of course, we also think of small details that fall within the scope of the administration, and we do these activities in close cooperation with the OBH. Some points were not understood, for example, that the President of the Supreme Court would be a member of the OKBT. Why would that be a problem? The President of the Curia is currently a member of the OBT. So the confusion between the role of OBH and the President of Curia is a little problematic for me, because the OBH is dealing with administrative tasks, and in this system the Ministry will perform it. That the minister will be interoperable and have political responsibility, and I also think that the scope of administrative problems can be included in parliamentary relations, unlike the discussions that are currently taking place between the OBH and OBT, in which practically, let us admit, it is quite problematic in any form, so to speak, to solve the problem. At present, if the congresswoman follows the events, the Ombudsman has turned to the Constitutional Court on this issue, who and what powers have to settle such a dispute. Congresswoman has indicated that she has problems with the adoption in December. I would also suggest that you read the house rules, and that everything was soothingly settled about what happened, why it happened and how it was adopted, but you can also go to the Constitutional Court on these issues if anyone has a problem, so the Hungarian legal system gives everyone an adequate remedy. I would also leave the ammunition to President Csaba Hende to answer the questions in detail, but I just wanted to clarify why the government submitted this amendment through individual representatives, and I say that this, of course, was done in the light of the opinion of the Venice Commission. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-20-40	Thank you very much. As the Secretary of State spoke on behalf of the Government, there is, of course, a way for Members to speak up if they so wish. So I'm going to ask if anyone else wants to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed and President Csaba Hende responds and gives his opinion on behalf of the rapporteurs. Here you go. [[11.40]]
u2019-03-20-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The speeches made can be divided into several groups. What is essential is who supported it and who opposes the bill. But it is also possible to group beyond this because there are clearly some who have read the original text of the law or the amendment that has just been tabled, and some who have unfortunately not made it this far. I would like to start in detail in order of time, although Congresswoman Varga-Damm has left the room, I hope that she will return with her comments. In the first place, this came out on several points from his first and second speeches against the reasons why the Venice Commission's recommendations were not attached to the bill. Because it wouldn't have been house-law, Your Honour. I have also called attention to the fact that the recommendations of the Venice Commission are available on the Internet at www.venice.coe.int and can be downloaded from there. Obviously, Andrea Varga-Damm failed to do this orientation, as she made such wordings that the Venice Commission's recommendations would most likely include this. Then he said: I am sure that this proposal does not answer the many other objections listed in the Venice Commission report. Well, I would like to reassure him and everyone, because this thought has gone through a number of speeches that, as mentioned in my expo, the recommendations of the Venice Commission, which, as you may know, but perhaps for the sake of television viewers, should be mentioned, is an independent body of the European Council, composed of lawyers and constitutional judges from the delegation to Hungary in this case, including Christoph Grabenwarter, member of the Austrian Constitutional Court, or Monika Hermanns, who is the judge of the German Constitutional Court, or Bertrand Mathieu, representing Monaco, or even Kateřina Šimáčková from the Czech Republic, or Mário Aroso de Almeida from Portugal, all members and representatives of constitutional law with internationally recognised and indisputable authority, and their impartiality, well, they have listed the questions in points mentioned in the expozem on pages 25 and 26 of this recommendation, in which they have their comments, if they have any recommendation. These questions, as I said in my expozem, did not object to the right of administrative jurisdiction as such, or what it is and its basic structure, but specifically to certain aspects. So that's where you get to know it. Unfortunately, Andrea Varga-Damm, along with József Tóbias, failed to get deeper in the basic text of the bill or the adopted law. I would like to draw attention here to basic arithmetical skills. This seems to be a contagious mistake, since our fellow Member Steinmetz, the representative of Jobbik, at a meeting with members of the Legislative Committee with the Venice Commission, has already given the wrong view that is here to return to the sale of both Andrea Varga-Damm and our fellow Member Tobias. At this meeting, Congressman Steinmetz said that he rightly referred to a previous resolution by the Venice Commission, in which he pointed out that the composition of the body of the ruling body on the selection of persons could be regarded as a rule of law if the judges were in the majority, and that this was not achieved, in fact, do you remember, Mr Steinmetz? in the Hungarian law. Well, then I told you right there that it would be a problem if it were, but it's not. It is regrettable that this information could not be transmitted orally to fellow Members without reading the law, and it seems that this mistake remains across party boundaries. It is a matter of fact that the original law, which is now being amended, has five judges on the staff council. Five! Because the president is also a judge because he's elected by Parliament from among the judges. And there are four non-judges. Therefore, it is completely unfounded and all the objections raised later on on this trail have been raised out of the air. Andrea Varga-Damm here said that 4:4 judges and non-judges would have a stalemate. So if you don't know the facts, you can easily come to such mistaken conclusions. Obviously, it is not 4:4, but 5:4 the proportion of judges against the number of non-judges, and we are changing that now, with 7 judges including the president, and 4 non-judge members, and six of them, so the majority of the 11 members are simple arithmetic, my fellow Members the administrative judges choose from their ranks. So it would also be a judicial majority if we did not take into account the President-General of the Administrative Supreme Court, elected by Parliament, which is otherwise of judicial status. You're following me, aren't you? Thank you very much. So all the objections in this regard are inexcusable and unfounded. József Tóbias said precisely that professional judges were also minority in the OKBT's personal council. Then Mr Tobias put it this way that the government is starting to incorporate the proposals of the Venice Commission. As I mentioned, at the said address, we accepted and incorporated all five recommendations on the page number, so we did not start, but finished this work. [[Tobias József intervenes.]] You know, they're not handing out, they're looting, so there's only one little difference between them. [[József Tobias: Cynicism rules over you!]] Mr Tobias also says that, on the one hand, it is not enough to adopt the recommendations of the Venice Commission, but also to say that some proposals are adopted and others are not. But that is not the case, because we have accepted all five recommendations, so your statement is not true, and we have also taken the initiative of the Venice Commission to reflect on our bill, not on your needs. If we want to meet your needs, well, it's by the rules of parliamentarism. [[József Tobias: Mr President, can't the author avoid personalisation?]] is not necessarily a salvation and a solution to be followed. There was a way to tell the congressman, and I'm allowed to reflect on all of this. [[József Tobias: Don't be cynical...]] What you told me. Many have said that there has been no guarantee of any kind, and the title of the bill is false, that it talks about the additional guarantees. This is a complete negligation of the facts, since the Venice Commission itself praised in a number of respects the guarantees which were included in the original law in respect of judicial independence, and proposed to strengthen them, for certain reasons, I do not say that they are negligible, but still in detail. So you did not say that this proposal is fundamentally, in its trend and structure, a threat to the rule of law. [[11.50]] I would like to refer here very briefly to the words of our independent fellow Member, Anett Bősz, who defined himself as a liberal in this debate, and therefore opposed the decision of the court under the authority of the State in the debate between the state and the citizen. [[We were talking about surveillance of the government. I'm suggesting text interpretation.]] Well, my dear fellow Member, I suggest you consider the current situation, which is... [[I propose a text interpretation, Congressman. He wants to twist my words.]] Please let me tell you. I can't listen to you, I can't listen to you, I can't talk to you... [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you very much. Unfortunately, I'm such a simple device, I'd like to say my closing word. Of course, we can continue this debate in a parliamentary framework, either in committee meetings or in the press. Well, at the moment, first-degree administrative decisions are brought to the government office by appeal, and there the officials of the state, state officials, decide on the dispute between the state and the citizens. This situation is changed by this bill, which is characterised by administrative litigation, which has already been adopted, which says that, according to the main rule, the administrative procedure is one in the future, and the appeal is immediately brought on a judicial path. The Government Office will have the opportunity to see, if it sees that the action, the action that the citizen has brought in the first instance decision taken by the State, seems to be justified, well, at any stage of the case, it will be possible to withdraw this decision and instruct it to take a decision in accordance with the law. So you understand? While the state and the citizen are currently involved in a debate, first of all, it is decided, first of all, that the public or government officials of the first instance, employees and existing officials of the first instance, who work and work in order of dependence, and second of all. In the future, they will be judges of the same legal status as all the other judges in the Hungarian courts, who are completely independent of the public administration, as the new law states that there is a single judicial status. There is no special court judge or administrative judge. And you are also aware that the judges currently taking part in administrative trials can automatically request themselves to the new court organisation without any hesitation by making a unilateral statement? So it is not that it will be filled from the outside with party soldiers and the like, but it will be selected from among those who are worthy of the judicial profession, the judicial status, who have the same conditions as all other judges. I hope that I have been able to reassure your liberal soul, because the essence of liberalism is that you are trying to protect human civil rights against the state and you are trying to provide guarantees against the self-government. Well, if anything, this law will satisfy even the most delicate liberal taste. But speaking of you, you have also said that the institution of the administrative court itself is unacceptable and that a country is no longer a member of the European Union. Madam Congresswoman, more than half of the Member States of the European Union must then be expelled from the EU because more than half of them have an independent administrative court system. So I do not understand you if you generalize that with an administrative court a country does not belong to the EU, then why is it now shaking its head that only Hungary does not, except the judge of Ghevi? Don't you have double standards, dear Congresswoman? Well, with the comments of József Tobias, Andrea Varga-Damm and my fellow Members Anett Bősz, I believe we are done. I would like to thank Erzsébet Schmuck for his balanced, extremely critical proposal and speech, but at the same time I think it is worth considering. He was able to interpret elementary arithmetic in an interesting way, saying that from 5:4 to 7:4 there was an increase in the number of judge members on the personal council. Well, he managed to do this simple operation. You have my special best wishes. The package of proposals that you have tabled has not yet come before me, I have not yet seen it, but we will study it very carefully with my fellow authors. And yes, yes, we will also use the excellent expert team of the Ministry of Justice for our work with Minister Barnabás Hajas in the lead, because it has been said that they are working for us. Everyone's doing their job, the politician's doing his political work, the expert's doing his expert work. These experts are, by the way, at the disposal of everyone, as was said in the seven-party consultation. There was an invitation for a waltz that anyone who had a suggestion, comments, feel free to contact the Commissioner, because this issue is so complicated that certain technical pre-study and assistance are needed for this. However, you have also mentioned something as if in your proposals, in your amendments, there was also a point in which the powers of the administrative court should be limited to the review of administrative decisions by this law. I got that right, didn't I? The problem is that this is a matter of fundamental law amendment, since the Fundamental Law states that other issues referred by law to administrative courts are included. With all due respect, this is an unsubstantiated motion. Thank you for the profound work you have done to study our proposal, obviously with the help of your constitutional experts. Well, I respectfully thank you for your critical and here and there extreme speeches. Bence of Turdai mentioned Fidesz droids on the case with humility. We humbly received him when he whistled in our faces. I confess with János Arany that I have already been to life. / Mostly I walked only on foot, / On foot safe... / Top on omnibus. / If I've met a gentleman's horse horse / I've met him and I've got mud: / I didn't flick it, / I pulled over, I wiped it. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Intruder from Fidesz: Bravo!]] Dear Parliament, I also appreciate the speeches on which the advocates want to be more papal than the pope. I appreciate that the need for guarantees of the rule of law is taking such enormous measures and that it is skyrocketing in your ranks that the guarantees required by the Venice Commission will prove to you little. I really can't comment on that. I wish you good luck in the next election. They must be won, and then they will be able to incorporate wonderful new guarantees. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-20-42	Dear Parliament, Thank you very much. Tens of years are not enough to prevent a person from being surprised when the bill on additional guarantees for the independence of administrative courts carries literary mysteries, even for a philosopher. This concludes the debate on the bill and makes the less lyrical but important announcement that it is possible to submit amendments by 16:00 on Thursday. Now, please, this is how we come to the general debate on the bill to amend certain climate policy laws until the end of the day. [[12.00]] The government referral is T/5240. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Kaderjak, State Secretary of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author. Secretary of State, please.
u2019-03-20-43	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Parliament, This bill seeks to amend two laws in the field of climate policy for harmonisation purposes. These two laws are the law on the implementation framework of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol, and the law on participation in the Community greenhouse gas trading system and the implementation of the effort-sharing decision. In addition, the bill proposes a small amendment to the Gas Security Stockpiling Act. Allow me to briefly summarise the most important elements of the bill. The 2007 LX on the implementation framework for the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol. The purpose of the amendment is to supplement the legislative harmonisation clause of the Act. Secondly, the 2012 CCXVII on participation in the Community greenhouse gas trading scheme and the implementation of the effort-sharing decision. It also proposes to amend the law for the purposes of harmonisation. In addition, Directive 2003/87/EC is a new 27a. Member States have the possibility to exclude installations from the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme, subject to the conditions laid down in the Directive, in view of Article 3 (3) of the Directive. The amendment proposal also sets out the detailed rules for this. The bill also amends the free allocation rules for aircraft operators for the period 2017-2023 for this Act. Finally, the 2006 XXVI on the security stockpiling of natural gas On the one hand, the amendment of Law 6 clearly ensures that the minimum cost principle is respected in the storage of gas in the context of security stocks and the proposed amendment narrows the institution for the recovery of the member contribution to the retail consumption. Dear Parliament, On the basis of the above, the adoption of the bill will have the following results. With regard to legislation on climate policy, our country complies with its legal harmonisation obligation arising from EU membership within the deadline. Eligible installations will have the possibility to withdraw their equipment complying with the required conditions from the European Union emissions trading scheme upon request, thereby reducing the administrative burden on economic operators. In addition, the impact of this measure, assuming an emission quota price of EUR 30, is estimated by experts to reduce the costs of operators applying for exemption on an average annual basis by around HUF 10 million, thus reducing costs related to industrial energy in a Union manner. Finally, the principles of minimum costs and fairness will clearly apply in the storage of gas security. This will allow security of gas supply to be provided if necessary, with the same consumer burden. In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament that the T/5240 on the amendment of certain climate policy laws. Please support bill number 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-20-44	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mr Ferenc Koncz. Here you go.
u2019-03-20-45	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/5240 before you on the amendment of certain climate policy laws. Legislative bill No.1, as the Secretary of State pointed out, proposes to amend two laws in the field of climate policy with a view to harmonisation and to amend the law on gas security stockpiling in a small manner. As an introduction, please allow me to quote the idea of President János Áder:. Climate change is not only a threat but also an opportunity. The amendments, as you can see, serve the interests of Hungarian society and the national economy. Fighting the challenges of climate change is a real challenge, but it is not an insurmountable task. To date, the government has put particular emphasis on the main areas of activity of climate policy. Its objectives include the implementation of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change agreements, the National Climate Change Strategy or the EU Emissions Trading System, the EU ETS in short, and the Effort Sharing Decision, in short ESD. With regard to the EU ETS and referring back to the words of the Secretary of State, Member States have the possibility to exclude installations from the EU ETS under the conditions laid down in the Directive. Between 4 December 2018 and 2 January 2019, a social consultation took place among potentially affected installations. On the basis of the outcome of the consultation, interest is limited to 27a of the directive. In the case of Article 3 (3) of the Treaty, it was significant. 26 installations have indicated that they have equipment that meets the conditions and intends to request that it be excluded from the scope of the EU ETS. By contrast, only 11 of the eligible establishments were interested in the introduction of an equivalent measure in the Member States pursuant to Article 27. 27a. In addition, no eligible installations have made themselves known for the option under Articles 1 to 2 (Articles 1 to 2). I would like to stress that the proposal creates the detailed rules for this by amending this law. XXVI of 2006 on the security stockpiling of natural gas As regards the amendment of the Act, Minister of State highlighted the important factor that the amendment made by the proposal narrows down the institution for reclaiming the member contribution to the Hungarian Coal Hydrocarbon Stocking Association to reclaim the payment for retail consumption, i.e. after the non-energy use of natural gas, the cost of stocking has to be paid again. These two measures ensure that a higher quantity of natural gas can be stored for security purposes under unchanged consumer burdens. Ladies and gentlemen, You can certainly see that the bill calls for major climate change and energy-related changes, which provide the basis for more efficient and organised operation. Knowing the content of the bill, we can safely say that the amendments are indeed intended to reform the laws on climate policy and to enforce useful and meaningful experience. So please support the T/5240 in front of you. the adoption of bill No 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-20-46	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, Mr Lajos Kepli, is next. Here you go.
u2019-03-20-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, They say a swallow doesn't make a summer, especially those who try to squash their own responsibilities about our future together. But what I'm saying is that every swallow and every single person's active contribution is necessary for the future to truly be something we can be proud of in order to protect and save our planet. [[12.10]] Compared to this, speaking of swallows, it is very sad that a million swallows are missing from Hungary at the moment. How it comes to climate protection and this bill is about to come to my attention, because it is no coincidence that this one million swallows have disappeared from Hungary. Human activity, unlimited and irresponsible use of chemicals and many other things that have contributed to this. [[Ferenc Koncz intervenes.]] If Mr State Secretary and Mr President allow me, I would like to talk about this issue in a slightly broader perspective, since the bill before us is an absolute technical proposal and for legal harmonisation purposes. It does not, of course, contain elements that would fundamentally change our approach to climate policy or even the result. That is why I would like to take advantage of this opportunity, the opportunity to speak as a speaker, to say once again what I think all the good Hungarian MPs agree with, everyone who is a little sensitive or sensitive to this issue, that we must do something, and we must do something very urgently about combating climate change, and much more than these legislative proposals at the moment, these legislative amendments make it possible. After all, we do not have to look ahead for 2030 or 2050, but for the years to come, and for the months to come, because it is here and there are tangible signs of climate change already at the moment. So it is likely that in terms of greenhouse gas emissions and other climate protection measures, we, humankind, have not done everything we have done in recent years, and we are not doing it now. It is very sad and also symbolic that this should be brought to the attention of a 16-year-old Swedish schoolgirl who organised a demonstration before the Swedish Parliament because of her sensitivity to the fact that the Swedish Parliament, which, by the way, may do the most in the world in the fight against climate change, is one of those countries, at least, to do more, because we do not have decades anymore, we do not have years to stop the process that will eventually be irreversible. The Greta Thunberg lady launched this Fridays for Future initiative, which means that students are holding climate protests in Hungary, including here in Parliament on Fridays, and, of course, it is very welcome, and it is good that more and more people are raising their voice for the future and climate. The situation is worrying, and it was also said a week ago at the visit of Commissioner Cañete, when we exchanged ideas at a meeting with the Committee on Sustainable Development and members of other committees on whether the carbon neutral Europe could be achieved by 2050 that the European Commission had imagined. I expressed my concern that this would probably not have to happen by 2050, but much sooner to reverse the processes that we can already perceive. Many people say that this is not Hungary's problem, it is a global problem, we Hungarians cannot add so much to this, and even so little, because the polluting powers, like the United States and China, do not seem to contribute so much to these processes, and that is true, but nevertheless we must take our part in this fight. Hungary is exposed to the risk of climate change. This can already be seen in the case of extreme weather conditions in the number of summer hot days, because of the extremes of precipitation distribution, floods and droughts, species disappear, and these are replaced by flood species that increase the risk of allergy as a disease, with more and more allergic diseases, which is also linked to climate change. It's all connected to everything, so once again, this bill does have something to do with what I'm talking about here. What other signs in Hungary are that our climate is changing and that the government needs to take radical, drastic measures as a matter of urgency, I have already talked about the swallows. I mentioned it because the disappearance of insect species and chemical use were the reason why the bird population was so much reduced, but, let's say, the number of bloodsuckers carrying other diseases and viruses is increasing, and diseases such as Nile fever, which have never occurred, let's say, in Hungary or only after it, will be the second most common occurrence in Europe after 2025. Of course, there are many factors in which we ourselves can control this effect. There is a great deal to talk about here, either in relation to energy efficiency measures or in relation to changes in household habits. In many places they also fire waste in wood-fired combustion plants, mainly plastic waste, partly because of poverty and partly for other reasons, which has an extremely harmful effect not only on health but also on climate. But, of course, it is not a positive process that, while we are trying to represent ourselves as the leaders of climate protection at least in international forums, while we are turning to the European Commission for the sake of assembly plants and car manufacturers, and not with a derogation request, but asking for a larger pollution quota compared to our options, because these car manufacturers are currently giving a significant part of the Hungarian economy, and unfortunately this is a unilateral dependence instead of trying to replace it with climate neutral or climate-friendly industries in the longer term, even more so, and as the years pass, we are building more and more on the automotive industry. I note in brackets, and this is more of an economic issue, that as soon as a global crisis occurs, an economic crisis is obviously one of the first to be felt by the automotive industry, and if a country's economy is built so unilaterally on the automotive industry and its supply industry, then it is very, very sensitive and exposed to such economic crises. But it's not a climate protection issue. This is one of the major sectors in terms of climate protection, as most forests are destroyed worldwide because of livestock farming, but also in Hungary, it will suffer very, very much the effects of climate change, as it is forecast that, for example, in 2050, potatoes will no longer be produced in Hungary, and this also indicates that there is less precipitation, more and more extreme distribution, and therefore we must pay close attention to climate protection measures. The Paris Convention set a 2 degree objective to keep the level of warming within 2 degrees and, where possible, 1.5 degrees, compared to the current commitments, to put the warming interval between 3 and 4 degrees, which is expected to happen, with disastrous, likely irreversible consequences. So we must act and act radically. Of course, the transport sectors -- right here in the bill -- there was also legislation on air transport, just to refer to the regulation itself. Aviation is one of the main contributors to greenhouse gas emissions. Today, very intensive air traffic is also happening in Hungary, among other things, and it is clear that in the future the intensity of this will not decrease but increase. So we must also try to make transport sectors more climate-friendly and change their structure, at least on the ground, and increasingly shift them in the direction of electromobility. Of course, it doesn't matter what kind of energy we use to produce that power. Preferably moving towards renewable energy sources. [[12.20]] I could talk about a lot more about this subject, of course. I have also tried to highlight the question from a slightly broader perspective because it is very rare for Parliament to hear a speech in which we, Members of Parliament, and legislators, call upon the responsibility of what an important and serious question we are facing. We don't believe it today until we see more and more tangible signs of how it will affect our everyday lives, even our own, but our children and our grandchildren, and we are the last generation, they say, who can do something about it. It is therefore natural that any legislative amendment proposal, even of such a technical nature, should be used to draw attention to these threats. In fact, the European Union is indeed a community that is perhaps world-class in preventing climate change as much as possible. But it would also be good if Hungary were to be at the forefront, among other things, of how to prepare for the effects of climate change that is still happening, because it will cost at least so much, but I think it will cost even more to prevent floods, droughts, increased diseases and other consequences of climate change. So the European Union is at the forefront of this fight, but, of course, at global level, it is still little to achieve results. I believe that the circular economy is one of the truly effective ways of actually taking action to curb or prevent the effects of climate change. The transition to this is a very urgent task to learn this approach as much as possible, to shape our industry and our everyday life in such a way that the consumer society is not a huge waste-producing sector, but indeed, if I only go to the waste area for a sentence, the aspect of prevention and full recycling should finally gain ground in Hungary. Unfortunately, we're not moving this way yet. Otherwise, and with this, I would close my thoughts, without transforming human consciousness and consciousness, it would be very difficult to achieve results. For as long as most people today, when they hear about climate change or climate protection, just pull their shoulders or let go of a half-smile about where this affects us, they tend to classify us as a minor subject, we are in very big trouble. Especially if it's done by decision-makers. It is also dangerous for ordinary citizens to ignore or not live their lives in their own lives, but for a decision maker who decides on the future fate of millions of people and, in this case, especially those who are pro-government decision-makers, since the decision is in their hands and in their responsibility in this matter, it is much more serious and more racial. Secretary of State is a representative of climate protection, this area and energy within the government. I would like to conclude with the message that every bill, as it has done so far, which can contribute a little bit to moving forward even a small step, is supported by Jobbik and personally with a good heart. But I would like to ask that, instead of taking small steps, we try to take much more steps to ensure that Hungary, at all, humanity and the Earth, can continue to live in the future. We, of course, have Hungary closest to our hearts. We would like to see that climate change in Hungary does not create conditions for even one person to leave this country. However, the opposite process is at great risk, as migration due to climate change is a huge threat, which could move hundreds of millions of people from subSaharan Africa, their homes in the future. We have to be prepared for that, too. That is why we must act, and, of course, in order to save mankind. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-20-48	Thank you very much. It is now time for the lead speaker of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Mr András Aradski. Here you go.
u2019-03-20-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, There seems to be a technical legislative change package that aims to amend three laws, three laws. One is the 2007 LX on the implementation framework of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol. Law. The second is the 2012 CCXVII on participation in the Community greenhouse gas trading scheme and the implementation of the effort-sharing decision. amendment of the law. Thirdly, we are discussing the amendment of the hydrocarbon and natural gas stocking law. Just as my colleague, Lajos Kepli, who spoke before me, made his position on this bill quite widely, I cannot avoid the fact that these detailed rules are extremely important, forward-looking in terms of compliance with EU requirements and that there will be no infringement procedure. According to the hydrocarbon stockpiling law, it will have two values. On the one hand, it will ensure a sound balance between the Coal Hydrogen Stocking Association and its ability to participate effectively in gas storage, which is extremely important for security of supply, and with an adequate financial and economic background. However, there is also an aspect of this that helps to protect the value of the reduction in electricity, because the cost of stockpiling gas consumption related to residential consumption can continue to be recovered. So this does not depend on universal service participants, who are nothing more than the vast majority of Hungarian citizens, 99.9 percent. In addition, it is worth talking about what Hungary is doing in this large system to protect the values of the globe, as we Christian democrats say, in order to protect the created world. Hungary moves in accordance with climate protection and acts in accordance with the EU community. An example of this was the adoption of the Paris Framework Convention, where I had the pleasure of participating, where the European Union represented the position of the European Union countries, we did not have a separate position, and it was able to represent the specific EU objectives together with the support and agreement of Hungary. The European Union has shown strong support for climate protection and has drawn attention to the fact that we are indeed facing a crucial time. If climate protection has not been transformed in such a way, energy use, agriculture management, transport, which is also a major greenhouse gas emission area, then the conditions of humanity, including the conditions of existence of Europe and Hungary, are seriously deteriorating, and if we go on this path and we cannot stop these processes, then our living conditions and living conditions are greatly deteriorating. I note in brackets that in this respect, preparation for these changes is at least as important as the preventive set of measures to be addressed in order to prevent changes, i.e. the reduction of emissions. What I see from the bill tabled is that it adapts to European trends. I think it is very important that, in consultation with economic operators, the author has made his decision, and we will take the decision ourselves, by adopting the law, on how to remove installations from the ETS system, which saves the farmers concerned a small amount of HUF 10 million. You can swipe at what 10 million forints are. I would rather look at the fact that there are only so many affected facilities in the country, which also shows that the values of the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian industry, can be viewed from the point of view, which shows that it works effectively. So there are not many unnecessary facilities that deserve to be removed from this system, they would be entitled to be removed from this system. [[12.30]] In view of all of this, I see that the bill itself serves climate policy in an appropriate way, both in its instrumental system and in its content, and helps to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, so that we can support it on our part. In the future, we will continue to support all measures that can be taken in addition to climate protection and climate change. This can be a level in Hungary, a level in Europe or a global level. I must add, I fully agree with the opinions that everyone must do their part, as a person, as a nation, as a member of a larger community and as a human, so that these projected consequences do not occur or arise. There are also voices that make it all a big fals thing. I don't want to say this here; I'm just thinking with simple common sense that if we make our living conditions clearer, better, we preserve our natural values, biodiversity better, then we people will live better, we will live better, so no such activity, such a series of measures will not be unnecessary. I must add that it is also worth examining the social policy implications of the effective climate protection that will help protect the globe and create human living conditions. But I think we should not open this debate on this law, but I would just like to point out that this could also be a complicated problem. Once again, the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the adoption of the proposed proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-20-50	Thank you very much. Congressman József Tobias, the lead speaker of the MSZP is coming. Here you go.
u2019-03-20-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It has been good to listen to this debate, which is a legislative proposal for harmonisation, if you will, and a few other issues, while discussing a very serious debate on sustainable development, preparing for and defining the effects of world and environmental change. But on the one hand, there are few of us in this room to have a good debate, and it is not certain that this room is fit to hold such a debate. I agree with my fellow Member, Aradski, that it all starts with the need to settle these issues first with the individual, in the narrower environment, in my view. Then, until we get to the big systems, as long as they understand that they are ultimately the biggest problem, it will take a more complicated procedure, and it may be too late. But don't be a pessimist about society, about the future of humanity, but be optimistic, as my colleague Lajos Kepli put it, a 15-year-old can do wonders in this world. But back to the presentation itself: the 5240th bill before us is entitled "Development of certain climate policy laws." By reading the title of the amendment, the first half of the proposal, I fully understand. The legislative proposal, the implementing framework of the Kyoto Protocol, is one of the legal harmonisation tasks of the 2007 LX. The Act and the Law of 2012 on participation in the Community greenhouse gas trading scheme and the implementation of the Effort Sharing Decision are amended for harmonisation purposes. But, further reading, I do not understand how it comes here, as part of the amendment of the law on climate policy, to amend the law on gas security stockpiling. I would like to talk more about this. The amendment to the 2006 law on the security stocking of natural gas states that, as of 1 May 2019, the possibility of importing, using or selling as a chemical raw material for chemical purposes, which is not certified for energy purposes, will cease to exist and that the chemical undertaking may recover up to 80% of the member's contribution to the MSZCS. The entry into force of the draft law shall be the 8th day following its publication and certain provisions shall apply from 1 May 2019. I would like to make the following comments on behalf of our group. Our first point is that from 1 May 2019, the stocking fee paid for the purchase of natural gas purchased for chemical purposes will cease to be refundable. To put it mildly, the justification is rather confusing, and I would like to quote from the proposal itself:. The institution for reclaiming members' contributions will be narrowed down to reclaiming the member's contribution paid after retail consumption. I would like to ask the author if you understand. If you understand, please explain it to the people who should understand that, but they can't, because I'm honest with you, and I didn't understand that sentence. It is further noted that this reclaiming option was introduced into Fbkt in spring 2016 and entered into force on 1 January 2017, also on the basis of the government's proposal, with a justification to strengthen the competitiveness of domestic chemical companies. The proposal was supported by almost everyone in Parliament at that time. I would like to quote from the speeches made at that time in Parliament my fellow Member, Aradsk, who then served as Secretary of State for the NFM. In Hungary in 2015 the total amount of natural gas used for industrial purposes was 5,46 million cubic metres, of which 0,76 million cubic metres were used directly as a chemical raw material and for non-energy purposes. For companies using natural gas for chemical purposes, participation in the stockpiling and the obligation to pay for the stockpiling result in significant costs, which these undertakings are obliged to pass on to their customers at the price of the chemical products they produce. This leads to a reduction in the competitiveness of chemical companies. Jenő Manninger: In Hungary, about 14 percent of the natural gas used for industrial purposes is used as a chemical raw material and not for energy purposes. So we see that it's a small percentage of the whole thing. However, this is very important for the chemical industry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. From representatives of other parties, Dr. Bertalan Tóth, in 2016:. The aim of the bill can be supported, given that it can help increase the competitiveness of Hungarian chemical companies. At the same time, in order to achieve the objective of the bill, it is essential that natural gas dealers supplying domestic chemical companies do not charge them or pass on to these companies the stock-holding fee they can recover, which amounts to several hundred million forints. This is something you have to pay attention to. My colleague, Mr Lajos Kepli, was no further away from the Group of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary than to prevent Hungarian chemical companies from improving their competitiveness. That is why, surprisingly, we are in favour of the bill, and we very much hope that these businesses will also invest in job creation, and then everyone will benefit. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This is 2016, my fellow Members. What's going on? If I understand the author correctly, it is either that these domestic chemical companies are already very competitive and do not require these advantages, reclaiming them, and we do not intend to further strengthen them in Hungarian, because they have become very competitive. In fact, they want to recreate the situation that they have previously considered discriminatory, or some other specific economic conflict of interest, a conflict that the author, the wallet, would like to settle in this way. In addition, or for all these reasons, I would like to point out that the MSZP will not support the bill, given its negative impact on the operation of domestic chemical companies. I am already mentioning that our group, its leader and its members have tabled an amendment to preserve the competitiveness of Hungarian chemical companies in order to ensure the stable development of Hungarian companies, in order to ensure that the stocking fee paid after the purchase of natural gas can be maintained. Thank you, Mr. President, I am honored to have your attention.
u2019-03-20-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. And now, Mr László Hajdu, the lead speaker of the Democratic Coalition Group. Congressman, here you go.
u2019-03-20-53	Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The T/5240. Reading and studying the bill, agreeing that this seems to be a minor amendment, but in fact it concerns an area that would be worth a whole day's debate in Parliament so that we can discuss this issue a little bit. [[12.40]] My fellow Member, Mr Lajos Kepli, made an attempt to discuss this issue a little more comprehensively in the context of this minor amendment, which, taking into account the comments of my fellow Member in the MSZP, is not so minor because it affects the chemical industry to such an extent, it has escaped our attention. Still, it made me wonder how the storage of natural gas would fit in on the third block, but environmental protection, I accepted that it was appropriate, and I didn't even focus on it, and I thought it was perfectly natural to put it there. I think that we, as a member of the Committee on Sustainable Development, are also here on several occasions, as is the Vice-President, so that the Committee on Sustainable Development can actually hold such a separate day here, and that the Secretary of State Kaderjak is also coming to us, so we are among ourselves, and we are discussing these things, in many cases we are talking about the issue that we know as a national climate change strategy, and when reviewing the national energy strategy that we started in 2018, we dealt with this very important issue, the whole wide-ranging issue caused by climate change, which is all over society. That's what I'm going to say. I think that there is a very important energy transition ahead of the Hungarian economy, Europe and perhaps the whole world. We are in the face of an incredibly big challenge, which the Committee on Sustainable Development is also trying to contribute from a number of sides to its small portfolio. We also see this from the government's proposals, and there are very important contacts in the literature for us, which show that yes, on this issue we know spiritually what to do, the practice usually appears in the budget, but what is included in the budget, but that is another question. It is very important that, in many cases, it concerns only regulatory requirements, controls and less money, such as energy efficiency, although for those who are controlled and regulated, this means money, of course, because we control technology or some other operation. I'd like to focus on three things in my first thought. One is that winter is now over, and in terms of climate change, the heating system is incredibly important, that heating is done in small villages, larger settlements or in a metropolitan city such as Budapest. At a time when we are still arguing that we are heated with wood, nearly half of the population of the country's settlements live in rural areas or in very small settlements, so wood heating, coal heating, heating with fossil energy, I think it causes incredible damage to climate change. When we amend the law on the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol here, these are not very good advertisements that we are arguing that there is not enough wood, there is not enough quota for everyone to solve winter heating. The other thing I would like to mention, although my fellow Member Kepli, Mr Vice-President, mentioned that in many aspects of the climate threat caused by the transport sector, I think it is critical, especially in a big city like Budapest. This climate change issue is being promoted by technology by car manufacturers, for example in the automotive industry, that there is a positive and negative version of this. The version where diesel is replaced by forward-looking vehicles or mixed-powered vehicles are increasingly placed on the market, at a serviceable, operational, sustainable and affordable price, means progress, and in this respect car manufacturers are trying to move forward. I would like to raise a sensitive issue that can be debated a lot: this is the role of renewable energy in climate change and renewable energy in the gas energy we have just said or in the nuclear energy that is on the next agenda. Each of them has its own right to exist, a significant circle of support, to say that they are different parts of the sphere of interest, yet I think that this agenda may give us a little opportunity to talk about renewable energy, all the more so, because, for example, let us take international solutions. For example, in the context of the Paris climate agreement, we have received detailed information on the type of energy change they are trying to make in France during what time period. We have to add that there are more than 50 nuclear blocks at the moment, and they are being refurbished by different versions of renewable energy. Many people say that renewable energy is available. It is true that this can not be put into operation free of charge, and this requires electricity in many cases or in most cases, but we must not forget that these renewable energy sources are only very, very small funding opportunities, very small public investment, although there is a shift in this area in the aforementioned strategic programmes, at least we have agreed that this will be the case in the budgets, that renewable energy, as a trigger, may now be a small step forward. So the transformation of our energy system, I can say, is taking place in Hungary and is in the process, especially the use of solar energy is a significant change, and it can now be said that solar energy is functioning significantly, although not yet in the version you can see, let's say, in California. I was lucky to go to California through a kinship visit, where almost every house has a renovation permit, so they grant a building permit, so that solar energy and such different renewable energies have to be installed, then there is a interest rate discount, then there is a credit rating discount, description discounts. So they also encourage it, but they also oblige renewable energy, they simply have to think of family houses of a slightly larger size, everything else from swimming pool heating is only possible if they do not want to run it with natural gas and anything else; there is an inexpensive price for heating the pools for this purpose. It's true that there's always summer there, because even when it's winter, people wear shorts and slippers, they're different. So in California, it's going pretty well. Experience in France. If the reception, the long-term programme that France has now planned, can be implemented, then I think renewable energy will play a very important role in a large economy like the French economy. [[12.50]] I would also like to mention the very delicate part of climate change, the delicate part of which we are less concerned with the social impact, although Lajos Kepli, who was before me, mentioned this, but it can be a very important cause of economic, social, environmental and health change, or a positive change in it. To do so, I also think it is extremely important that we need a change of perspective. There is a shift, among other things, in my constituency there is a changing centre in Budapest. I've always tried the committee... Such a change of attitude centre has been built from EU funds in Rákospalota. This centre was built of a few hundred million forints, and it is suitable for the public education of high school students, university students, kindergarten students, schoolchildren, and students. There is everything, from selective collection to many things, and in practice they present biogas systems, many things. There's a reason it cost so much money. This is a very elegant, incredibly sympathetic solution, but if one program or three programs a week is already very good in such a huge city in Budapest, we can do that with the children, the teachers will bring them here... the KLIK's educational program doesn't include taking the children to environmentally conscious lectures, so it should be built into education somehow. We're lucky he's in the district, and the kids in kindergarten know him by heart. By the way, you have to start in kindergarten. We just want to mention a small example. We have an eco-vodina, and there a kindergarten educator told me that the mother brought the baby to kindergarten, I may have told you about it at the committee meeting, who threw the butt in the footstand, and that little kindergarten kid told the mother that it shouldn't be thrown away because that's what she heard; that's where she becomes aware during kindergarten. I also consider environmentally conscious education to be important, and I think that energy-saving home solutions have little culture, in which many would think that there are many different solutions with solar energy, thermal insulation, many other things and earth heat, that it may cost a little more, but it is not very perceived by one consciously, and on the other hand, even if the technology is more expensive, it may be worth his comfort in the long term. The Democratic Coalition has made this bill, let us say that it is not a far-reaching bill, even though I am uncertain about bringing the gas issue here, which my Socialist fellow Member has done, and I have yet to start by supporting it by the Democratic Coalition. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-20-54	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the LMP, Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, is next. Here you go.
u2019-03-20-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law submitted by the Government alone does not justify a long speech as it basically contains elements of harmonisation of EU law, so I could not finish my comment here. I am not doing this because we have recently seen chain reaction-like changes in climate change, very rapid changes, and we must take every opportunity here in Parliament to talk about the importance of this issue and the related wall data. So it can't be at the same rate as it was before, and I think this is a very good example of the Paris climate agreement and the period since then. I just want to remind you that in 2015 in Paris, the basic saying was to keep the temperature rise within 2 degrees Celsius and the desired goal is 1.5 degrees Celsius. However, not long after that, the report of the IPCC, the UN Intergovernmental Climate Change Panel, did not talk about a temperature increase of 2 degrees Celsius, but was an undesirable target, but a temperature increase of 1.5 degrees Celsius. There are very serious and serious conclusions to be drawn from this report because it is in this report that governments must take very radical steps within 10 to 12 years and not only in direct climate change and protection tasks, but also points out that the causes of this are somewhere in the economy, in everyday consumption patterns, and that these steps need to be taken. We can drag it out, but if we do not take these steps, they will force it out simply by the changes that we can already experience in Hungary. The other factor is that we know that Hungary is one of the most exposed countries to climate change in the Central and Eastern European region, so that is why we have very serious tasks in this area. It should also be said that I am pleased that the European Union is at the forefront here in tightening up the climate policy objectives and in collecting and managing the related tasks. Therefore, if we look at the UN process, it cannot be said at the European Union that it is at the end, but that it is constantly trying to set ambitious targets. However, here I would like to draw the attention of the representatives of the government to the fact that the attitude we have in relation to the formulation of the European Union's more stringent climate policy objectives is unfortunate in the aspects of Hungary. I understand when the government is trying to justify Hungary's strong dependence on the performance of the automotive industry and perhaps lobbying in Brussels for the interests of the automotive industry when we speak against the ambitious climate policy goals, but it must be recognised that climate change is also a very serious negative impact on the Hungarian economy. Therefore, I very much hope that the government will consider this and change it here. And now I'm going to have to tell our criticisms, and I promise the government that until I see that there are real changes, I'm going to whip the government in this area, what's left, what's not done, and what's not enough for the tasks that we should carry out. So unfortunately, we find that there is a lack of effort from the government to respond to these rapid changes in climate policy and, unfortunately, behind this, we see that daily power struggles and gains are also being made, even though climate change is a crucial challenge. It is not very understandable that, after all, our decision-makers in Hungary do not understand or want to understand at all that the delay is historic and that the responsibility is high for the country and its inhabitants, and that, yes, Hungarian decision-makers, the Hungarian government, must face the biggest challenges of the government. Unfortunately, there are unacceptable examples. It is amazing to me that when the Prime Minister is asked by the press how much he thinks climate change is threatening, he answers hours later that I am lining up behind the President of the Republic on climate change. It has to be said that this is very little. I would like to point out that, in such a case, a Prime Minister should not be behind the President of the Republic, but, as the holder of the executive power, should at least catch up with him and do what needs to be done. The government, on the other hand, largely and now I quote from the past, forgot to implement the first national climate change strategy, and then, out of compulsion, after several years of procrastination, finally submitted it, and then the Parliament adopted the second national climate change strategy. [[13.00]] However, we also know and have said this several times that this was already outdated in some of the elements of the strategy, even outdated when it was presented, and that it continues to set only directions of action, without specific objectives, proposals for action, those responsible and resources. Of course, the second NÉS Decision states at least that, within six months of the adoption of the strategy, every three years thereafter, the Government will draw up an Action Plan on Climate Change. Well, March has passed, and we do not hear much news about the specifics of the action plan here in Parliament. But there is the fact that a government decision of February now clearly sets out the goal of Hungary being among the five most successful countries in Europe by 2030, and I am quoting here:. The primary objective of resource use is to increase Hungary's economic and social competitiveness. In addition to achieving short-term national economic impacts, greater importance should be given to longer-term efficiency gains, business environment improvement, capacity and human quality of life. But among the goals is the reduction of climate change and adaptation in substance. According to the Government Decision, it is an important milestone in the planning schedule that the Minister for Innovation and Technology will draw up, by 31 May 2019 in line with the ongoing review of the 2030 national development and territorial development concept, a draft national planning document at the highest level for the use of EU cohesion funds between 2021-2027, proposing the allocation of funds between programmes with the involvement of the relevant ministers. I would really like, ladies and gentlemen, to know how concrete targets, measures, responsibilities and resources for climate change appear when the action plan is drawn up later than these funds are allocated. So there will be an action plan later, without a source, because the resources have already been allocated. And there are many other issues in the context of climate change. I ask again where the national building energy programme supporting the modernisation of the residential building stock is delayed, because during this financial period the European Union's funds for this purpose have been used for something else, ignoring the energy poverty affecting a large part of the domestic population, which is also relatively limited in the Parliament and all environmental considerations. What will the future bring? Where is the support of local governments delayed to prepare for changing environmental conditions and to continue to provide viable settlements to their inhabitants? And there are a number of other questions: how is healthcare prepared for new challenges and diseases, if it is still lagging behind and helpless in the present situation? Or where is the agricultural and water policy based on water retention based on sustainability delayed? And I could go on with it. However, climate change and its consequences have been the priority of science and politics for a quarter of a century. Or at least it was, because we know the government's unacceptable attitude towards science as a whole. But before that, home science didn't do nothing. And I would like to remind you that there was a Vahava project of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, which was actually looking for a change-impact response to climate change 15 years ago. Since then, hundreds of scientists have been involved in predicting the expected direction of climate change in Hungary, likely impacts on individual sectors and disciplines. The government is using magical tricks to demonstrate the expansion and annual development of the domestic economy, not to mention that this is largely due to EU support. That is why I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that another presentation of the MTA report said that the adverse impact of climate change could mean a 1 percent reduction in GDP per year. But we also see climate change speeding up, and the feedback is getting stronger. These could be a higher number later. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State why the national climate and energy plan presented to the European Union at the beginning of this year is so unimaginable and powerless. For example, how can it be explained that while we are behind developed countries in terms of energy efficiency, the government's objective is to improve by only 8-10 percent by 2030 against the EU's 32.5 percent targets? This is a crime against the interests of Hungary, and it is time for the government to face it. I hope that, in the context of climate change, the government will continue to make more and more serious proposals to the Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-03-20-56	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. And now it's time for Congressman Bence Tordai, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogues, to be the notary of the Parliament. [[Bence Tordai enters the speaker's stand.]] Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-03-20-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Citizens, We have a Climate Salad Act ahead of us, and some of my fellow Members have asked, many of us have been wondering for a while what the small amendment of the Gas Security Stockpiling Act is doing here. First, I would like to address this riddle, and then I would like to talk about the merit of the climate issue. We know that when there is legislation, there is always a need to look for power and financial interests behind fidesz acts. It's no different now. We're at one of the new stages of a fidesz trial. We do know that some of the fidesz oligarchs have been on the way for a long time, László Bige and the Péti Nitrogénművek. This amendment of the law is nothing more than to put this single person in a tighter position with financial and legislative means again, and put him under more pressure to give his empire to a designated Oligarch near Fidesz at a price. So, if we didn't know what this really rather outstanding amendment was doing here, which was wrapped up in the announcement of an international convention, then we know that now. But let's get to the point, because that's not why we're here, it's to talk about climate. I think if we look at this, we'll have to look at two distinct positions, two polar points, and it's worth looking for. One should be Viktor Orbán, who, as Hungary's practicing prime minister, does not show the slightest interest in the disaster of climate change, and the other, Benedek Jávor, who, I believe, represents the most responsible and prepared Hungarian decision-maker in Brussels in the fight against climate change. [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] in the European Parliament, in the colours of the Dialogue. Let us look at the practical consequences of these two attitudes. I would paint Viktor Orbán's attitude with a few words of his own. He says such things: alternative energy cannot be financed by this argument to continue to operate on the terribly outdated, dangerous, expensive and vulnerable Paks expansion, according to Putin's intention. While on the other side, Benedek Jávor worked out with his colleagues a study entitled "The Green Hungary Energy Road Plan" which shows that by 2050 Hungary will be able to achieve the full green transition and achieve climate neutrality in such a way that we no longer depend on the energy front nor on the Russian big brother. [[13.10]] Orbán says such things, that the price is the most important issue in energy matters, the climate is only second. Compared to this, it supports a project that can only be zero if the price of energy doubles. We find that, not only on this issue, but on each issue, the climate for Viktor Orbán can only be second in the line of considerations. That's when we talk about air pollution, for example. They are very keen to lobby for the interests of German car manufacturers, they are fighting very hard in Brussels, not for the interests of Hungarian people, not for a healthier environment, not for cleaner air, not to reverse climate change, but to keep the limit of pollutants as high as possible, so that German car manufacturers can represent the interests of major customers and suspected financiers in this international decision-making process. So, while there is an air pollution disaster in Hungary, in Budapest, just like in many cities in Northern Hungary, the air is very often toxic, compared to which the Orbán government is constantly fighting against its own citizens, the climate change issue is always focused on some other aspect by putting it in a second, third and a thousandth row. Let us consider some other, rather revealing facts. Hungary has no Ministry of Sustainability, no clear owner of the fight against climate change in the Hungarian government. At least four wallets are involved in these cases. In climate protection Hungary and the Orbán government are the poor students of the EU, while we are the most vulnerable Member State due to our environmental conditions, practically nothing is done to prevent and mitigate impacts in order to adapt to climate change. We do not see water saving, we do not see green areas increase, we do not see any meaningful steps towards chemical free. However, they are a very serious obstacle to the inevitable and vital transition. Such is the virtually full ban on wind power plants, the taxation of solar panels, the support of the large-scale, irrigation intensive agriculture carried out by the Orbán oligarchs and after which they can take on EU subsidies instead of supporting employment intensive, i.e. labour-giving family farms. We could continue the line. With regard to renewable energy, the Fidesz government has made minimal commitments, with only a 14 per cent effort, and the worst way to achieve it is through wood burning. Accordingly, we are the slowest greening EU Member State. If we look at what the government is doing on the issue of energy efficiency, which is one of the main areas in the fight against climate change, it is doing that all the resources intended for the population, which are supposed to be drawn from the EU in the order of 100 billion, are redirected to the companies of the buddy oligarchs, at best, it gives credibility to the population, but it excludes those who could improve air pollution and emissions in Hungary most effectively and to the greatest extent. The energy efficiency indicators, which affect not only climate, not only air quality, but also people's quality of life in other areas. One third of households are affected by energy poverty. Those in difficulty simply burn everything that burns, because if cold or even freezing death is the case, we know that every year people freeze in their homes every hundred times in Hungary, so if you have to choose between freezing and burning with harmful substances, everyone obviously chooses heating at all costs. Tens of thousands of people die in Hungary every year because of air pollution, bringing them to the top cause of death. We lose the population of a small town every year because of dust and soot. CO2 emissions and other greenhouse gas emissions are also increasing astoundingly. In Hungary, while Viktor Orbán says and even János Áder pretends that we are in a very comfortable situation and that we have no responsibility, we would not have a task in this matter, just because, in the early 1990s, large industrial production, which is very polluting and otherwise inefficient, has collapsed and therefore the emissions in Hungary have decreased, so they are pretending that we do not have anything to do, as if we could sit back comfortably, as if we were simply meeting the criteria that the EU has set itself. From here on out, it's like we don't have anything to do with the fight against air pollution and climate change. Fortunately, the EU is now in a rather courageous and ambitious mode. At the pressure of Benedek Jávor and other pro-greens fighters, the European Parliament now adopted a decision on 14 March on the basis of which the EU's emission reduction targets will be set at 55 per cent instead of 40 per cent by 2030, and will set a net zero by 2050, i.e. a total climate neutrality target for the European Union and call on the Member States to do so. We also had the opportunity to exchange ideas about this with Viktor Orbán this week. He said that slowly with the body, let us wait for what the national action plans for 2020 contain, and if they do not appear ambitious enough, if we do not see that the EU objectives are achieved together, then let us start thinking. Benedek Jávor and the Dialogue are on the contrary. We believe that the first thing we need to do is define the objectives of the fight against climate change at EU level and adapt the commitments of the Member States and the action plans of the Member States to this. So from now on, it is not our job to produce something on the basis of business as usual, and then we will sink it in paper stores, but to see how Hungary could contribute to fulfilling these new ambitious but vital commitments, how we can achieve in Hungary and in the European Union that by 2050 full climate neutrality, net zero climate policy and emission policy are decisive. Therefore, programmes should be developed which not only mean ticking the mandatory tasks, but also triggering real action. This is what the Green Revolution is about for Benedek Jávor's energy road map is about, this is what the green transition is about, the green new deal that the left-wing and green parties around the world represent more and more strongly, which at the same time creates the possibility of transition, reverses climate change and adapts to changing living conditions, simultaneously asserts social justice in this process, and also focuses on creating new jobs and creating a new economic structure that serves the quality of life of people, which is not about the pursuit of profit, growth at all costs, but about the real meaning and real purpose of the economy, about meeting social needs in line with environmental potentials. This is what this green turn is all about, which we represent, and which is completely in conflict with today's policy of the Orbán government. We think that this is the green light that should be the subject of much of the debates in Hungary, the majority of the work in the Hungarian Parliament. Compared to this, such harmonisation tasks, and even, as the author put it, harmonisation obligations, can be used to deal with the issue. We need much more than that, we need more initiative, we need more courage, we need more responsibility, we need more preparation. That's what the opposition and we, the Dialogue, are doing, and that's what the Fidesz government doesn't seem to be able to do. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-20-58	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No one's applied for a two-minute speech. The Members present are also acting in the same way in the case of a normal request for a word. So it's all I have left to ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. Mr State Secretary, as rapporteur, should be given the opportunity to react. Would you like to live with that? [[Dr. Peter Kaderjak: Yes.]] Here you go. [[13.20]]
u2019-03-20-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to start by saying that I am very pleased that practically every speaker on the bill has stressed and expressed the need and the idea that the issue of climate protection should be supported, and that the decisions, the proposals that come before Parliament on this subject, should be fundamentally supported. Of course, for me, who am the State Secretary responsible for this area, it is certainly inspiring that the issue of climate change will be supported in this sense in a uniform way here in Parliament. I would like to mention very few things with regard to the proposal itself, since, in essence, there has been no substantive comment on the legislative harmonisation measures on climate protection. Rather, the debate that we would have carried out here at the initiative of the LMP started to emerge from the comments on 12 December. I would like to recall that there would have been a political debate on climate policy, where, on the part of the government, we started with a very thorough preparation to conduct this political debate that is important for the whole country. This debate was then washed away by other political events, and it is unlikely that this moment is the right time to conduct this debate, so there are a lot of points that we could have discussed at the time, and I cannot react now, and I think it is not appropriate for me to respond. So there are actually some issues before I come to the question of gas security stockpiling, which I would like to mention in relation to climate protection. The first point is this, and here I would like to respond to the last comment by Congressman Bence Tordai, who said that Hungary is a bad student of the EU: I would like to reject this. The points listed by the Member on this point prove that the Member is rather a bad student, he has not attended classes where the information on what is happening on this subject in Hungary would have been available. There is no responsible wallet for climate policy: there is, namely, I represent the leadership of the climate policy area at State Secretary level. We are a poor student of the EU: this is also a huge mistake, with the amount of greenhouse gas emissions per capita in Hungary of 2 million tonnes less than the European average. By 2030, in that particular national energy and climate plan, we have fully undertaken to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40 per cent in relation to the European Union's commitments compared to base 90. We've banned wind power. When someone travels to Vienna, they see wind wheels spinning, we did not ban wind power. We focus resources on other renewable energy sources, like all countries: where the wind blows, wind energy, where the sun shines, it is better to concentrate on solar energy; and may I say, what should I say? misleading allegations that Bence Tordai here memorized. What I would add is that from the government side, we generally do not like revolutions, but rather balanced, conservative solutions. What we are essentially trying to achieve is a balance between the goals of economic growth and the objectives of climate protection, where we can achieve the otherwise key issues of climate protection in a technologically neutral, cost-effective and fair way. In this connection, I would like to point out that the current climate action plan, the national energy and climate plan, takes decisively and fundamentally into account the requirements of climate change, climate protection and climate protection. In the transformation of the energy sector, we strive to achieve climate protection objectives in such a way as to ensure security of supply, increase the security of domestic energy supply and reduce consumer costs. There are five areas that are particularly focused on our energy and climate policy, and this has been said here from a lot of contributions, so I think we can draw a lot from the support and proposals that have already been made. These are the five points: increasing energy efficiency, supporting renewable energy sources, promoting transport greening, nuclear energy recovery and replacing coal and lignite combustion as far as possible. I would like to emphasise once again that, on the part of the government, which is also linked to the next item on the agenda, the issue of nuclear energy recovery is basically considered a climate protection area. Today, 60 percent of electricity generation in Hungary is carbon neutral, 50 percent of which in Hungary are produced by nuclear energy and 10 percent by renewable energy production. Here was the French example, working with French colleagues, in the framework of the International Energy Agency, to develop policies where ambitious nuclear and renewable energy solutions can serve each other together and serve the climate protection objectives shoulder to shoulder. So much for climate protection issues, and at this point I would like to discuss how gas security stockpiling is put on the table in this package of proposals. Here again, Bence Tordai mentioned such a conspiracy-theory concept that the government's aim would be to overwhelm certain oligarchs. I would like to point out here that, contrary to this, the proposed amendment has two important objectives: strengthening our gas energy security and reducing consumer costs. Obviously, it is also known to the Members and ladies that there has been a rather tense situation between Russia and Ukraine regarding the development of gas supply relations after the end of 2019 when the delivery contracts between the two countries expire. Naturally, this debate also affects Hungary, Hungary's security of gas supply, and we want to do everything we can from the government's side in order to go ahead with any risks related to this debate. One of the priority areas of risk management is the security of domestic natural gas. As is well known, Hungary has a strategic security storage facility with a capacity of 1.2 billion cubic metres, and the aim of this amendment is to provide financial coverage by setting a regulated ceiling for the cost of strategic storage, in addition to the strategic gas storage of 1.2 billion cubic metres, with the non-discriminatory financing of the cost of strategic storage, by all industrial consumers, and the other point not mentioned in the proposal, so that we can store up to 200-450 million cubic metres of natural gas in Hungary without increasing retail costs. [[13.30]] So once again, I stress that this amendment is necessary to ensure domestic gas supply security and consumer overhead costs, so that all industrial consumers are equally involved in financing this security of supply. If the purpose of this amendment had been what Bence Tordai mentioned, in 2016, the Government would not have granted László Bige the exception which was granted for a short period of time, on a temporary basis and to other chemical companies. This amendment initiative now proposes to withdraw this temporary benefit, once again, in order to guarantee and cost-effective security of gas supply for Hungarian consumers next year and thereafter. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-20-60	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Next up is the 1996 CXVI on nuclear energy. Act and LIII of 2006 on the acceleration and simplification of the implementation of investments of major importance for the national economy. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/5239. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to give the floor once again to Mr Péter Kaderjak, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, who is the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2019-03-20-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The T/5239 in front of you. Legislative proposal CXVI on nuclear energy. LIII of 2006 on speeding up and simplifying the completion of investments of major importance for the national economy. This includes an amendment to the law. The proposal to amend the Nuclear Power Act includes a revision of the administrative deadlines in certain procedures of the National Atomic Energy Office and in the case of fire-protection specialised procedures. The proposal to amend the time limits for administration ensures that the investment to maintain the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is properly carried out. In connection with the amendment of the Nuclear Power Act, the 2006 LIII on speeding up and simplifying the implementation of investments that are of major national importance became necessary. Amendment of the Act, under which the administrative deadline of the National Atomic Energy Office is to apply the administrative deadline provided for in the Nuclear Energy Act. Proposals to amend administrative deadlines are not just an extension of time limits, since, in the case of certain authorisation procedures, the bill sets a shorter time limit for administration than the existing provisions, depending on the procedure of course. In addition to the amendment of the deadline for administration in relation to fire management procedures, the amendment of the Nuclear Energy Act proposes that, in the case of investments in new nuclear power blocks, the National Directorate-General for Disaster Protection of the Ministry of Interior, instead of the local bodies of disaster protection, should act as fire protection authority, with which the highest level of professional participation in the permit procedure is ensured. The 2016 CL on the General Administrative Regulation. In the context of the entry into force of law, the Act on Nuclear Power includes additional procedural rules which are included in the Act on Nuclear Power. is not regulated. The Akr. In its view, these institutions may be defined by sectoral law if they are required to be applied in the relevant fields of competence. On this basis, in the procedures of the Nuclear Power Supervisory Body, the National Atomic Energy Office, it will be possible to contact a large number of customers by means of notices once the Parliament supports the proposal. The bill also contains detailed rules on the fulfilment of the details, the payment discount and the execution of the specified act. In the case of these legal institutions, it is a guarantee rule that the licensee demonstrates by means of a safety analysis that for reasons beyond his control he is unable to comply with the specified act by deadline, but the level of nuclear safety is not reduced due to delay. Dear Parliament, CXXV of 2017 on sanctions for administrative infringements The amendment to the Nuclear Energy Act also includes the amendments necessary for the proper application of the Act. According to the Sanctions Act, the sanction is imposed according to the nature and weight of the infringement on the basis of the principle of gradualness. According to the proposed legislation, the National Atomic Energy Office may prohibit the licensee from carrying out the activity until the legal status is restored, and the law is amended in accordance with the sanction law, according to which there is a place for confiscation in the procedures covered by the Nuclear Power Act with regard to public security and nuclear safety requirements. Confiscation can also be ordered against the nuclear energy user, essentially by means of the sanctioning law, the proposal intends to equip the National Atomic Energy Office. The Nuclear Power Act is supplemented by the provision that if a public security permit is no longer required for employment in a nuclear facility, for example because the employee's employment relationship has ceased or his function, position or job has changed in such a way that a public security permit is no longer required, the licensee must notify the police. The police may, after notification, take action to withdraw the public security clearance. The bill also contains other technical clarifications of a minor nature. On this basis, I ask the Honourable Parliament that T/5239. Please discuss and support bill No. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-03-20-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mr Gábor Varga, can give his opinion. Here you go.
u2019-03-20-63	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As you heard in the State Secretary's Expo, the bill before you contains amendments to two previous laws. On the one hand, the 1996 CXVI on nuclear energy. LIII of 2006 on speeding up and simplifying the implementation of investments of major importance for the national economy. This includes amendments to the Act. An important element of the bill is that the nuclear law defines the administrative authorities that may be involved in the procedures of the National Atomic Energy Office. The law designates the local bodies of disaster management as the fire department. The complexity of investments to maintain the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and related to it requires special expertise, and therefore it is appropriate that in these matters of national importance, the administrative procedures should be conducted by the central body, namely the National Directorate-General for Disaster Protection of the Ministry of Interior. [[13.40]] Dear Parliament, The Paks Nuclear Power Plant is the cornerstone of Hungary's electricity production. More than half of the domestic annual electricity generation is provided by the nuclear power plant with a low-cost electricity guarantee. In addition, it is a driving force behind the domestic carbon-free electricity supply, which contributes in a sustainable way to the preservation of air cleanliness. The mission of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is to produce safe, reliable, cheap and environmentally friendly electricity. The adoption of the amendments is justified by the need to establish additional rules in accordance with certain procedural laws and to establish regulatory consistency. The proposals are also necessary on the basis of a review of the deadlines for administration so as to give the authority and administration the right time. The reason for the amendments is that the administrative deadline available to the Authority or the administration in certain authorisation procedures of the new nuclear power plant is not sufficient. The amendment to the nuclear law proposes that the authority have a different time limit for administration according to whether the licensee has submitted the prior safety information. Considering that Paks II. Zrt. it has already submitted the preliminary safety information to the National Atomic Energy Office, so that the deadline of 12 months according to the proposed amendment will apply for the assessment of the application for an installation permit, which may also be extended once by three months if justified. Dear House, With the bill before you, the government's main goal is to bring about harmony between the nuclear law and the laws of procedure. In my opinion, the proposals for amendments contained in the bill are appropriate for the implementation of the investment in maintaining the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, and I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the proposal, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2019-03-20-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Lajos Kepli, lead speaker for Jobbik, is the next speaker. Here you go.
u2019-03-20-65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, We have also held several political and professional debates here in the Parliament over the past period on the capacity expansion or rather maintenance of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, who likes both terms spread in the Hungarian press; rather, the reservation is perhaps more appropriate, since in the long term it is about the replacement of the current blocks, together with some increase in performance. In this context, the political and professional opinions of the Jobbik Hungary Movement do not always agree, because from a political point of view we have often and greatly criticised the bilateral agreement concluded, its encryption, and we have told you about our uncertainty about the parts that we do not know, which remain within us to this day, and what continues to make the entire investment, as a whole, uncertain about its admissibility, and not only for us, but also for the significant majority of society. Unfortunately, with these questionable questions today, it has been possible to achieve that Paks II is not the only one. investment, but generally the perception of nuclear energy in society has changed and has not changed in a positive direction, at least on the basis of surveys on this. It is also important to know that Jobbik has supported nuclear energy as a realistic alternative from the beginning, from 2003 onwards, its appearance in the energy mix in Hungary, and considers the existing Paks Nuclear Power Plant blocks to be a secure power plant. Technical errors occur everywhere, of course, but thanks to professionals who have been running this power plant for the last thirty years, thank God, and should, of course, knock on the door, according to normal operation, apart from minor technical problems and emergencies, this facility worked. And we very much hope that this will continue in the future, because the blocks have been extended, and these extensions will expire between 2032 and 2037, so they will stop the four blocks continuously. And, of course, around 2012, when the Russian-Hungarian interstate contract was concluded, we here in Parliament supported the creation of new blocks to replace the current blocks. Political circumstances have changed significantly since then, and since then the eligibility of this contract and this investment has become extremely uncertain on our part. Unfortunately, the situation is that, for the most part, due to circumstances that we cannot be aware of due to the encryption of the contract, but those that have come to light may not necessarily confirm that this is an eligible project, so at the moment our attitude is at least questionable. However, if we look at it professionally, it is the responsibility of the current governing parties and the government that this project will be implemented, when it will be implemented, with what deadlines, under what conditions, in what professional capacity, and it is necessary for them to take the provisions that are one of the examples of which is the amendment proposal before us, which provides for the question of administrative authorities. Of course, the fact that on a matter of such weight, such a priority national investment, as a nuclear power plant block, the tasks of the fire department are performed by a central body, the National Directorate-General for Disaster Protection, is entirely appropriate, and there is nothing wrong with that. Our excuses, which we say every time, are more political and not so professional. We are very sorry that, although renewable energy sources are increasingly emerging, not only in Hungary, but also in general across Europe or worldwide, there is still uncertainty as to how Hungary will cover its electricity needs in the medium term. At the previous item on the agenda, I said a very general speaker's speech on climate protection, and I do not want to go this far in the general way, I would like to stick to the bill, but this is the case if Paks II. It is mentioned that the capacity of up to 8-10 thousand megawatts that will be missing from Hungary's energy mix in relation to the ageing power plants will be able to be replaced. Because 2400 megawatts, even if this investment is made, the replacement of the current 2000 megawatts and some increased power will exist, but there will also be significant electricity demand, which we will not be able to cover in the current state of renewable energy, and the question remains how this will be done. There was obviously a five and a six-pack block, a gas-engined power plant, and everything else; obviously this is not an energy policy debate day, so we do not want to get an answer from the Secretary of State now, but I would just like to present our position or doubts about this debate. It is quite natural that, if such an investment is carried out, it will be carried out as a priority investment in the national economy, but there has been quite a significant delay in the implementation of the project at the permit stage, without even a single cutting of the hoof being made in connection with the investment. It was mentioned earlier, in the spring of 2018, that the first cutting of a plow will take place, so that some kind of work will begin in the field of parade buildings. I was there during the fall, and I didn't see any signs of any work, and I probably wouldn't be able to see it today, because it's still waiting for you. At present, 2020 may be when it can start, but the duration of the possible transfer is likely to be delayed, which, sooner or later, if delays and delays are so high, may coincide with the closure of the current blocks. [[13.50]] So there will be no transition period in which both Paks I and Paks II will be held. to produce. Although it was also a question of what we could do with the amount of electricity when Paks I and Paks II operate together. Of course, it's not a control plant. Reactors are the most economical, if they operate at maximum power, then they can deliver the best performance and achieve the best electricity cost. That's why it's a question of a facility of this kind, of which 2000 megawatts are Paks I. and 2400 megawatts Paks II., i.e. 4400 megawatts, if operated in parallel, how could the system handle this. But it seems that this question will not come up, because as the realization progresses, the interval in which this question might arise or the parallel operation could take place will be reduced. Although investment is a priority for the national economy, the delay should not be brought in by reducing the deadlines for administration. I think we can agree on this, because it can be at the expense of safety if the time limits for authorisation are reduced beyond a certain limit, and the authority does not have enough time physically to study each authorisation dossier in substance. I believe that in the case of a nuclear power plant, these deadlines are very important. We are only at the time of authorisation, and in the case of installation documents, and at the time it also applies to the procedures for putting into service, although I think that we will have several parliamentary periods in this Parliament, or we will be pulled down by the Members of this Parliament. Overall, and I would like to conclude with this, this dilemma remains on our part, since we are less politically able to support the whole procedure and investment in Paks II. We see its professional foundation in the Hungarian electricity system, so it is probably also in connection with this bill, as we have been customary lately, because of this duality we will take the position of abstention. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-20-66	Thank you. Congressman András Aradski, lead speaker for KDNP. Here you go.
u2019-03-20-67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In fact, the bill before us has been here as an ongoing proposal since 2014 within the framework of the legislation, because in 2014 this House took a responsible decision when it adopted the Hungarian-Russian interstate agreement here, within the walls of the House, which regulates the nuclear power plant investment needed to maintain the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. So everyone could get to know the content of this contract, and I will even go on, and everyone could get to know the content of the separate inter-state agreement on financing. Thus, the debate took place before the public in this House on what the intergovernmental agreement on establishment contains and what the conditions of the agreement on financing the establishment are. Obviously, these agreements determine that it is our duty, rather than our interest, to build a nuclear power plant that guarantees the long-term supply of electricity to Hungarian consumers. [[In the notary seat, Dr. László Varga replaces Bencé Tordai.]] Why is that necessary? First of all, because the Hungarian power plant stock is on its way out, and it is also necessary to properly replace this capacity, this production capacity, and to do so with regard to the previous agenda so that we can meet the climate protection criteria best in the field of energy production. It should be added that energy production and use are the main causes of climate change. Of course, the latter includes transport, but in itself, energy production, which is typically done today on a fossil basis of more than 60 per cent of the world, makes a significant contribution to climate change, and despite the efforts of the developing world, including China, to trigger this cause, all countries, as I said on the previous agenda, must contribute to climate protection. One of the very important tools for this is the use of nuclear power, the wider access to electricity from nuclear power. All relevant international organisations agree. All I need to do is refer to the International Energy Agency. It is clear in them that climate change has only one means: decarbonised energy production. And the essential part, base and base of decarbonised energy production is the production of electricity with nuclear energy, and this is complemented by the range of climate-dependent renewable energies that can be used in the territory of the country, in Denmark the wind, in Hungary and in southern European countries primarily solar energy. So these are the reasons. I did not mention the OECD Nuclear Energy Agency at the time, which is also in this position. It can be said that it is accepted worldwide that without nuclear energy, we cannot act effectively against climate change, we cannot stop unhealthy processes that we all fear rightly and with caution. And why did I start from 14? Because when we made this decision in 14 years, the law on nuclear energy adopted in 1996 was in force, which was yet tabled by Prime Minister Gyula Horn's government. It is sensible and not hurtful, but factually, that in 1996 the legislators did not have the experience of building a nuclear power plant, the rules of procedure to assist construction, or the rules to put appropriate guarantees into the system in order to bring about a legitimate, factual and rational implementation of the nuclear power plant. The construction of the first four Paks blocks was completed in 1982, after which Act 96 could no longer follow up on how to build a nuclear power plant and how to put it into the legislative environment what regulatory conditions should be applied. An amendment to the Nuclear Power Act has already begun in the previous period, i.e. in 2016. In the framework of this, the preliminary safety report was included in the system, which gave the investor the opportunity to prepare this and thus facilitate the work of the authority itself without any commitment. But the General Administrative Regulation Act came up, which in many respects revised the rules of procedure for the construction of the power plant for the use of nuclear power. In substance, the bill before us corrects this when it corrects the measures relating to the deadlines for administration and makes clear the applicability of the institutions of law already in existing procedural law. For example, delivery by public notice, such as the applicability of confiscation rules, such as the applicability of the prohibition of activity. These will be corrected by the bill before us, hopefully, and I am sure that due to careful preparation, it will facilitate the long-term application of the text described in the law. I hope so, and I am sure that the objective behind which this law is to ensure the procedural order without compromising the professional safety requirements will be ensured and served by this bill before us. [[14.00]] It should be added that, if we look at the procedural deadlines, there is more of an extension, rather a proper period of time in this proposal, which gives the National Atomic Energy Agency a reasonable period of consideration and objective examination, taking advantage of this, of course, of the Ákr. other provisions. However, there is no doubt that it will also bring about consistency, for example, with the law on the implementation of investments of major importance. It is also a matter of extending the deadline when this harmonisation is carried out by the bill. So I hope, and at the same time because of the professionalism of the proposal, I must be sure that the proposed bill before us provides the right framework for the safe execution and rapid deployment of nuclear power plant investment. Because well-prepared official work is a guarantee that the contractor will be able to make the targeted investment by the deadline, and it will also provide the contractor with security if, in the event of compliance with the provisions contained in it, i.e. those contained in the official decision, there will be no obstacle to the execution, which would also jeopardise the security of the Hungarian energy supply. To sum up all this, the Christian Democratic People's Party will support the adoption of the submitted bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-03-20-68	Thank you, too. And now it's time for Congressman József Tobias, the lead speaker of the MSZP. Here you go. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]]
u2019-03-20-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The new broom seems to be sweeping well, the State Secretary responsible for the former Paks enlargement, Attila Aszódi was acquitted on 15 January, the new Secretary of State, Pál Kovács, was appointed at the beginning of February, and the new Secretary of State has already arrived in the second month following his appointment with a new bill, which is the 2006 LIII on speeding up and simplifying the implementation of the Nuclear Energy Act and the investment that is of major importance for the national economy. contains an amendment to the Act. The text before this House, bearing number 5239, which lies before us, contains, according to the author, proposals primarily relating to the revision of certain procedural rules and technical clarifications. If we look at it, the proposed bill will change the scope of the administrative authorities to be included in the authorisation. There will be an extreme short, 90-day procedural period for the authorisation of a physical protection system for the application, storage and transport of radioactive waste requiring protection at levels A, B or C on the basis of a physical protection plan. By the way, the deadline for authorisation at this level is 12-18 months, so it has been a minimum of one or a half years. I would like to note here that my fellow Member, Aradsk, said that speeding up allows us to maintain security at the same time, at least he has great confidence in it. I want to trust him, too. Then the rhetorical question remains that if something has been laid down in a law for a year and a half because it has guaranteed safe preparation, then what makes us think that a system will know this in three months. In fact, from this point of view, a paper can carry anything, but we're still talking about the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. 150 days is the deadline for authorisation of the container, while this is the reactor's main defense system. The time limit shall be two months for the official authorisation and control of buildings related to the nuclear installation and the radioactive waste storage facility. The nuclear monitoring body may withdraw the authorisation or limit the duration of the authorisation if it finds that the conditions relating to the protection against nuclear safety, safeguards, protection and ionising radiation on which the authorisation is granted have changed and the resulting risk has increased. So far, it didn't have to be said according to the current rules, so far it didn't have to be said that the risk had increased in order to withdraw. It was enough that, due to changed circumstances, the builder could at any time come up with a cost reduction or simplification proposal, which he could say would not increase the risk and no longer have to withdraw the permit. The investor may receive a payment discount for the fine as proposed. The amendments shall also apply to ongoing procedures. This in itself is not surprising, as in the past, almost 8-9 years, this has been the case, either in retrospect or in current cases, new legislation has been enforced. Therefore, the proposal does not deviate from previous practice in this regard. It is clear that the main objective of the proposal is to speed up the authorisation of the authorities, which is consistent with what has been put forward for the Secretary of State. It became clear that in the last year, every time there was a delay in the Paks investment here in Parliament, either the minister or the then Secretary of State stated that everything was taking place according to schedule, according to deadlines. At least today we know there's an annual delay, and the Secretary of State is trying very hard to catch up. The first question follows, inter alia, that the speeding-up of authorisation procedures would, or would not, jeopardise the construction of Paks II. Safety issues related to the operation of a nuclear power plant. What can be debated professionally, whether in terms of sustainable development or in terms of green energy, is that the energy of the future must be useful; one cannot be debated: that, in relation to such a question, the sense of security of Hungarian citizens must be supported by real facts, so that there is no question anywhere, by any political party or civil society organisation, that the negative effects of future operations on members and individuals of society can be reversed at any time. If it is clear to everyone that a nuclear power plant is not the toy that we change every year, because we know that even the current one has a long enough period of operation, the operation of this type of plant requires increased attention and caution. In this respect, I believe that our previous opinion that the delay of more than one year brought together by the government compared to the original timetable should not be brought in by speeding up the authorisation procedure, as it could significantly increase the security risk that has been developed in the past decades in accordance with certain standards, including in Hungary. [[Dr. István Simicskó is replaced by Attila Móring József in the notary seat.]] There's a saying on this subject: walk slowly, you'll get there. I could say you're slow, you're alive. They're both true. It would be good if the government did not want to comply with what kind of commitments they have in a contract, because there may be objective or subjective circumstances that make it possible to overwrite this agreement, even if it costs him extra costs. While, I would like to say, there are advantages to a nuclear power plant alone, CO2 emissions, continuous power generation. There are disadvantages, capital costs, risks of waste management at the same time. And there are also social, future and other rational considerations. But either way, only in the case of good preparation and a broad debate, such a decision for many decades should be taken. According to our current knowledge, the interest rate on the Russian loan financing the agreement concluded without proper authorisation is between 3.95 and 4.95 per cent. I just want to say that, while it is almost standard for the ruling party in this House, there is an exceptional case today, because we have not heard the past eight years, so after nine years of government, there is something refreshing and mild in this House, but let me also note that we are talking about a Russian loan higher than the IMF and EU loans taken out during the crisis. So, while we heard nothing from the opposition at the time about the debt trap and what a bad agreement was made, I'm telling you, this is worse than IMF and EU loans, and its return is more than doubtful. The investment is likely to cost more, even as a result of the slippage, than the EUR 12.5 billion originally planned. [[14.10]] This debt in the so-called foreign currency loan... I have just read today the statement by Árpád Kovács, President of the Fiscal Council, that some kind of crisis is being outlined around 2021, and how good it is that the debt service and public debt of the Hungarian State are falling greatly, which is, of course, a matter of mathematics, but the point is that this amount does not specifically help the pace of the reduction of public debt. We maintain our proposal that a sense of security could be restored not only professionally but also socially. The publicity of the treaty could give that political confidence, and the referendum of society could give the type of stability in which this very serious professional issue would not become a battle of political parties from day to day. And of course, you can say that you will have two thirds at the end of the vote, and then you will accept it, but believe me, society will still want to live here in this country in fifty years' time, and it will still have this power plant here in 50 years' time. Thank you very much. [[Zsolt Gréczy applauds.]]
u2019-03-20-70	Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to László Hajdu, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2019-03-20-71	Mr President, Mr. Secretary. As a member of the Committee on Sustainable Development, I am primarily an expert on this subject. Although I was at the Paks Nuclear Power Plant in many cases not only as a tourist but also as a politician, last year we saw a presentation at the power plant, then, indeed, even like my colleague before me, the information was about keeping deadlines in the presentations, and then it was a rather sympathetic, correct information. Before I say a few words about the proposal, this is one of these small proposals, but of course you have a very important message. The one talking about a nuclear power plant today, the one talking about a water power plant, is a curse word. So you can't talk about these two in a way that's sympathetic and you can't represent them with sympathy. In Austria, I visited about 20 such water power plants, such a small water power plant at the time, because my profession is wet and, by trade, through our relationships. There, a single demonstration and professional objection were not made by this small mini water power plant, which supplies electricity to three or four mountain villages, and is also incorporated into the large system. They take advantage of the huge waterfalls in the Alps, so they take advantage of their own opportunities. And somewhere else, they turn it into a political issue, and we let go of the water, and that's it. The situation at the nuclear power plant is a bit different, there's an inheritance here, a nuclear power plant has been operating since 82. The decision was basically made at that time. I accept that the decision could have been not to build, and we'll do something about this one when it's over, but it was decided that Paks II. It's going to be built. Therefore, Paks II, even if competition law can be challenged, whether it was chosen according to international competition law rules or how, but ultimately there is a parliamentary decision, a parliamentary mandate. This is probably quite true before me, and sustainable development is certainly in line with the energy, technology and everything else produced here, so taking into account climate change aspects, it is possible to attack less, other attacks are what can cause it; it is cheap, as we have heard, and it is reliable. I have asked these three questions myself, and this is what Mr. Secretary of State has already heard from me; this Paks II, which means a significant expansion, especially because the two power plants operate at the same time, even for ten or more years, I raised the question of cooling it, because here we are talking about speeding up permits and security, there will be no more water in the Danube, even if we speed up the permit. So what you need to know is that the security for which permission is issued, for example, how more water will be in the Danube, how your cooling system will be solved, is not decided by the 90-day deadline or the 12-month deadline, but by nature, whether we can hold this water back in the Danube, this is one of the issues. The other thing I'd like to raise here in the process of speeding up the permit is the issue of spent fuel. Does this include speeding up, speeding up permits, or only speeding up permits now just building permits? I think that authorisation for placing into service is equally relevant, and then the heating fibres come out. There is a third question here, and this should also be part of the authorisation, that the shortage of professionals that is characteristic of all professions in Hungary today, such an exceptional profession, where people with exceptional qualifications are required, should also take into account the ability to operate from a human policy point of view. Is there such a capacity for human policy that two power plants at the same time with such special knowledge as is necessary for the operation of the nuclear power plant, are such special training already in place? Here we need new professionals of a hundred magnitude, if this power plant enters, does this include accelerated licensing? Because if the professional can be assured that there are wage workers coming from Russia and that we are actually building it with Russian money, and it is also operated by Russians, then I can imagine that there are many power plants there, but there are 127 reactors in Europe, at least at the end of last week we heard that there are 127 such in Europe at the moment. It is true that more than 50 of them in France, only in one country, and they want to restore it, at least that is the intention. Germany has already announced that it will not build new ones, but we have one more question ahead of us, which needs to be resolved. In speeding up the authorisation, there is the danger that I have been told that we are gambling a little bit, that we are also risking a little exposure by accelerating certain processes, which have a natural run-through, which cannot be imagined as an administrative decision on an order. I'm a little afraid of that. I've worked a lot in the local government, and I know that in a daycare building, the mayor has given it up, that we have to start when the season starts in the fall, and it has to be ready. It has lead times that we can't solve, because then the children will suffer, or the parents and the kindergarten teachers working there. Overall, I can say that I have asked for the floor here by saying that we will abstain from voting, but I think that this proposal, by coming here, raises one more question. I saw that public hearing was regulated by the law, that it could only be over 50 people, I think, to call a public hearing. [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] There's something I didn't understand. Customers who have logged in can only communicate electronically with the investment, this is something in communication... (To be indicated:) Or we've reached it. Here, the most important thing we have discussed in the previous agenda is the formation of consciousness, the construction, the awareness-forming of the environment; communication in society's capacity must be made even closer than that this law will allow digital communication rather than personal communication. Overall, that is all I wished to say, and we will probably abstain from voting. Thank you very much. [[14.20]]
u2019-03-20-72	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2019-03-20-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, There's a lot to blame the government for, but it's not that he didn't want to go all the way to prolong Paks' I. life, and that he doesn't want Paks II. construction. The government never stopped it from doing so. But it is also true that he has always hidden important details needed to inform citizens correctly. It took a lot of lawsuits, information affecting the country's budget for many years and the lives of generations to at least partially inform and understand contracts concluded with Russian parties. Well, in addition to the government's efforts, the secrecy about the investment is accompanied by considerable delays and desperate haste. Aszodi Attila, former State Secretary responsible for the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, who, although defending the investment with his face and name for years, ended up on the scapegoat's bench. For us who have opposed Paks II from the beginning. Since most developed countries in the world have long put the use of renewable energy sources and the improvement of energy efficiency ahead of risky and, overall, very expensive nuclear energy, well, we pro-green politicians should really be happy, because although the government has already spent many billions, it has more to say, and even our children have made gravely indebted commitments to the new power plant, fortunately, which we should be glad to have not even made a single cut. We see that the installation permit is not yet in place, although it is now reported that they are thinking that until then at least the huge work pits should be dug up for HUF 41 billion, in order to see if these work pits will fit the size of the facilities still under design and redesign. We see the government's increasingly dictatorial approach in green cases as it has damaged environmental rights when it has transformed the system of public administration, especially the green authorities, at its own convenience. We remember very well the amendments tabled in a hurry that reduced the deadline for granting investments in the national economy to the point of frivolity, substantially abolished the powers of resolutions of environmental and nature protection authorities, all in order to be able to fool megaloman investments with the least social and professional resistance. However, the laws that have been craftyly created and voted for by force of power have also damaged coherence between certain elements of the legal system. This is demonstrated by the current bill that, after all these years, the government finally realized that perhaps 42 days would not be enough to authorize a nuclear power plant. This is why the administrative deadline laid down in the nuclear law should now be taken into account instead of the provisions of the National Economy Act. Of course, these new deadlines are also too tight, for some types of investment, for example, 11 months, 8 months, 150 and 120 days. The other blooper, to which the State machinery has finally realised that the General Administrative Regulation Act does not contain provisions on the execution of specific acts and other payment concessions, but allows sectoral legislation to lay down additional provisions. The Government can now ensure, by means of a planned amendment of the nuclear law, that if it is not possible to meet or cause disproportionate difficulties for the debtor for reasons outside the obligation, it may be possible to extend the time limit set, to be more precise: to amend it. As a general rule, the delivery deadline may be extended only once, with the same period as the first time limit. However, in exceptional cases, the extended time limit may be longer if the licensee demonstrates that he is unable to comply with the specified act by deadline for reasons beyond his control and provides evidence by safety analysis that the level of nuclear safety is not reduced due to delay. Well, that's another example of apologizing government errors based on the domino principle. So once again, the government is submitting a salad law that best shows the malfunctions of its own work, trying to cover it up. For the LMP, this bill is, of course, not eligible, because the fact that it is a proposal that is already wrong does not make it any better. As a green party in Hungary, we can support one Paks law, and this is the proposal to withdraw enlargement, which we would like to see here on the Parliament's table as soon as possible. We are convinced that our country's energy supply must be put on a completely new footing. We need clean, safe, cheap and nuclear-free energy, and this could be achieved primarily by supporting the renewable energy industry, because we are sure that the future is either green or not. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-20-74	Thank you, Congresswoman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I'll ask if anyone wants to comment on the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State, Peter Kaderjak, if he wishes to comment on what has been said. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor as the author.
u2019-03-20-75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank you for your contributions to the legislative amendment proposal and, of course, for the support of all those who have provided for this proposal. I would just like to make a few brief comments on what has been said. Of course, we are also aware from the point of view of the author that this amendment will not result in the new blocks of Paks being implemented, which, of course, will not happen in itself, which will require a lot of work. However, international experience today shows that where there is no very determined intention and determination to build new nuclear power plants, those countries essentially decide to give up nuclear energy recovery. This is not the decision Hungary has made. I would like to respond to a number of points on the subject of acceleration or slowing down, and Mr Tobias raised this question, and Mr Hajdu also referred to these things. It seems that in the case of nuclear energy or the creation of new blocks, if it is moving slowly, the problem is that something is moving fast. I would like to make it clear at this point that, according to this proposal, in certain areas where this is necessary in order to guarantee nuclear safety, the proposal proposes to set longer deadlines, where there have been even unnecessarily long procedural times, and where such time limits have been introduced in procedural laws, it proposes shortening them. Most importantly, there would be 12 months under the current nuclear law in the permit to set up, and this could be extended once, by 3 months. According to the current proposal, this would be modified so that if the applicant submitted a preliminary security plan to the Atomic Energy Agency, then this 12 months plus once 3 months will remain, if this is not done, the deadline for authorisation will increase to 18+3 months. So what is happening is that the most important, in terms of nuclear safety and answering the questions that Mr Hajdu mentioned, is employment, cooling issues, and there is a very long list of nuclear safety issues that are crucial for such a project, it is enough time for the National Atomic Energy Office to consider and answer them precisely because of the security aspects. [[14.30]] In cases which are less decisive and prominent in terms of nuclear safety, it is also a matter of setting an appropriate deadline by experts from the National Atomic Energy Office and by the Secretary-General of State for Enlargement. So once again, I would like to point out that what we have set out is to ensure, on the one hand, consistency between procedural laws and the nuclear law, and, where necessary, to guarantee the deadlines for a safe decision, where it is not necessary or unnecessarily long, to speed up these procedures. The other issue I would like to respond to is the question of public hearing and the question of how, then, this thing is in this proposal. Here, this proposal proposes that, in cases where a large number of customers are contacted by the Atomic Energy Office, or where a public hearing is held, which may also normally involve a larger clientele, the Atomic Energy Office may communicate by means of a notice to those affected by this matter, so that the resolution published on its website should be considered as communication. Of course, the colleagues of the National Atomic Energy Office will go to the public hearing, they will speak to it, they will be available, but it is just such a proposal to facilitate administration or modernisation that we are making possible here, there is nothing more mysterious than this amendment. I think that perhaps these are the key issues to which I wanted to respond. Of course, once again, the questions about how the issues of cooling will be resolved, what should be done with the lack of expertise, of course as the project progresses and later on will be topics that will be discussed continuously. It is certain that if there is no firm intention on the part of a government to advance this project, then there is a shortage of professionals, such as we cannot change, because there will not be a young man who will think that this is an attractive vision to invest his energy in the field of nuclear energy, because then there will be no such vision. So what we are talking about and what we are doing is absolutely critical from this point of view. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-03-20-76	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. The general debate on the bill on the 2019 budget of the Television Film Mecenature is now under way until its closure. Proposal submitted by the Committee on Budgets T/5220. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Szűcs, rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets, rapporteur on the agenda.
u2019-03-20-77	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, We are in a special situation, not for the first time, when the Hungarian voice of the Committee on Budgets is the voice of an organization that is independent of the government. In this case, too, instead of the National Media Authority, the Committee on Budgets presented this bill on behalf of that Committee on Budgets, as the President said, T/5220. on the 2019 budget of the Television Film Mecenature. I would like to remind you that in December 2018, Parliament voted for the amendment of the Act for the establishment of the Television Film Mecenatura programme. In this amended section of the Media Act, the Television Film College and the Television Film Mecenatura fund will be set up. The main aim of this was to create, as far as possible, more works that wish to present the historical history and culture of Hungary. According to the proposal before us, the operating budget and expenditure of the Television Film Mecenature is HUF 7 billion, which is fully central budget support. Of this, HUF 6.5 billion is used to support film productions. The new fund manager will be the five members of the film department. Its President will be appointed by the President of the Media Council and its other members will be delegated for five years by ministers as defined in the Government Decree. The organisational and professional control of the field trip will be assisted by a three-member supervisory board. The total personal expenditure of the newly set-up was set at a maximum of HUF 130 million in 2019 and its expenditure in rem was set at HUF 245 million. The other declared purpose of the Television Film Mecenature to be set up is the production and preparation of films, series of films intended primarily for publication in the media service. This means that the aim is to produce productions that will not only run in cinemas, but also to enjoy the professional results of Hungarian films in our home. I hope that with the adoption of this proposal, there can be a support fund for permanent works such as we remember that Abigail or Tüskevár used to be, which are remembered, watched and even screened on television by both small and large to this day. Let me also tell you that I am pleased that the Committee on Budgets has supported this motion by a large majority, with 13 votes in favour, with two abstentions, without voting against. I thank you for your attention and ask the Parliament to discuss it and to adopt it. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2019-03-20-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to present a position during the debate, so a speaker's speech will now take place. First, I give the floor to Robert Simon, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-03-20-79	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, CXII of 2018 amending certain laws relating to the production and dissemination of films. Law ordered the establishment of the Television Film College by amending the Media Act, creating a new, separate fund of funds under the name Television Film Mecenatura. The mecenation is therefore a separate fund, managed by the Television Film College. In December of last year, the Parliament adopted the law and thus the establishment of the mecenature. The aim of the project is to promote the production of films and series primarily intended to be published in the media service, ensuring that the widest possible range of audiences can benefit from valuable films, including films presenting the historical history and culture of Hungary. I'll stop for a moment at the movies of our history. Historical films are a special category in the world of films because they have unique style marks. [[14.40]] One of these is that their plot takes place in some real historical age, with the faithful return of the characteristics of the period. My generation grew up playing kuruc-labanosat or Gergely Bornemissza and István Dobó, because we were still given Captain Tenkes, Lieutenant of Rákóczi and several times a year to watch the highly successful movies of the Egri stars. Unfortunately, for children today, this genre is almost completely unknown. There is a legitimate question as to what we expect from a good Hungarian historical film today. It is by no means mere entertainment, but the presentation of the world, mentality and thinking typical of age, and the transmission of general human values in the robe of contemporary society. Thus, the historical film allows us to gain insight into another age, and perhaps its own XXI. We can also find answers to our centuries of fears. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, the history of a country, a nation, is drawn not only from textbooks but also from TV and movies. However, we have a rather one-sided view of history from the point of view of our cinema. For example, the theme of the Holocaust has been very well processed by Hungarian filmmakers, and several of our internationally prized films have been made in this topic. For example, the taste of sunlight, Fatelessness, or Saul's son. I believe that there are other important events in Hungarian history that also deserve a credible or good film or series of films. Trianon, for example, has not yet been able to make one worthy, lasting movie or series! Perhaps the Egri stars of fifty-one years ago were the last Hungarian historical film to be seen every time. In our national celebrations, the historical films made in socialism are almost exclusively shown today. I consider the 80 Hussar to be one of the most beautiful Hungarian historical films, but unfortunately, the view of that era is also pressing its stamp on it. The film deals with the story of the Lenkei knights who came home from Galicia and joined the Hungarian freedom fight. This was a success story in reality, but in the film presented in 1978 it could only be portrayed as a failure. Undoubtedly, there is a great demand for good historical films and series in the Hungarian audience. But it's not enough to wish in itself, it's also necessary to secure resources. Last December, the amendment of the Media Act provided that this year's budget for the new separate fund would be adopted by Parliament in a separate law, but, in line with the existing system of the Media Act, it already approved its closing account as a separate annex to the Act on the implementation of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority's single budget. According to the proposal submitted, the total revenue and expenditure of the operating budget of the Television Film Mecenature is HUF 7 billion. The total amount of revenue shall be central budget support for operational purposes in its entirety. The policy of support for the mecenature is determined by the Film College, with the conclusion that it must carry out its support activities by means of a public tender. The rules of support are laid down in the Government's regulation. In the event that a production receives aid under the Film Act, it may not receive support at the same time. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, one more thought. According to the news, the scripts of several historical films are already in the process of realization, which promises the Hungarian viewer that Saul's son will continue the Hungarian film drama presented in 2015; Grey nobody is the Hungarian television film on the theme of World War I 2016 and 1945, which began with a Hungarian historical film drama presented in 2017. I am sure that soon after the adoption of the law that we are discussing, the further periods of Hungarian history will also receive worthy and credible films and series, because the aim of the program is to ensure that everyone has an equal chance of accessing cultural goods and that viewers can choose from as many quality content as possible. As the lead speaker of Fidesz, our faction will support the proposed bill. I would also ask the leaders and representatives of the other parties to support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-20-80	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Andrea Varga-Damm, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2019-03-20-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We approve the budget of the Hungarian Film Mecenatura with this proposal, which, as my Fidesz fellow Member said, has a total amount of 7 billion, which, as the President of the Media Council presented to us in the Committee on Budgets, is based on an estimate, given the fact that an organization is formed but has no organisation, so the system that will run this organization has not yet been set up, and the funds needed for the operation and task system of other similar types have been adapted to this HUF 7 billion. Who in this House would not welcome authentically, quality, enjoyable films and TV films about Hungarian history, and the Hungarian people should finally not watch so many false, false shows, but see quality, truly historical, and enjoyable films on a real basis? Therefore, of course, although our party and group are very critical of the functioning of the entire Media Council and of the entire public media, we will support this proposal, because we always hope that what the governing party, or the government, or the media authority in this case, promises to do will be fulfilled. I would like to say that it is unacceptable for us in the first place that the media authority and the completely foreign bodies connected to it have a budget of HUF 90 billion, so that quality does not really come out of them. There is an amazing social change, creating false news, misleading the masses of people, and generating a terrible level of social frustration, uncertainty, and distrust through fear - inspiring advertisements. Perhaps if such a program, such as this film photography, is created, and this year we will put in place a budget of 7 billion, perhaps at least then some positive part of this organization's activities will arise, and we can enjoy the fact that this organization exists. In this way, I can tell the rapporteur and the representatives of the governing parties that our group will vote in favour of this budget with the expectation that we will, of course, be accountable for the promises made by both the rapporteur and the lead speaker. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-20-82	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2019-03-20-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot begin this time by saying that, Mr. Secretary of State or Minister, because there is no one here representing the government, what I understand is that we are discussing a committee proposal, but I think it would be a good thing if the government were to be represented continuously at the Parliament meeting. But let's move on, because it's obviously not something directly related to the proposal itself. First of all, I would like to say that I am a very big fan and supporter of the Hungarian film. I think Miskolc, my hometown, has put up with you in this regard over the past decades. CineFest, the international film festival in Miskolc, is well-known, which I think brings more quality productions to Hungary every year, and Hungarian films are presented every year at this film festival, and, of course, we have better news and better information about Hungarian films around the world. I think that the successes of recent years confirm that it is very important to support the Hungarian film, the issue of Hungarian film, and, of course, I agree with the assessment that while in recent years the TV film has been a bit of a stepchild. [[14.50]] For example, my former pro-government fellow Member referred to the fact that, well before the change of regime, highly successful, otherwise worthy and professionally high-quality works can often be seen on television, otherwise rightly, but perhaps in recent years many TV films have not been made. It can be said that, of course, the fact that more should be prepared and a field trip system should be established is a Eligible objective. In some respects, I would like to make a cautious criticism, or to express my disagreement on one or two points. One is that when we are discussing a proposal to achieve the public service objective, we should not be angry, for example, I cannot distract from the public service media, which clearly serves propaganda steels. I think that when we want to spend 7 billion in a mecenary on TV films or historical works from the budget to support the preparation of these, it would be good to see the guarantees of real public service more strongly in such a proposal, because, by the way, the budget has spent about 90 billion on other sides, let us say in terms of the media, and we do not really see impartial information and public service elements. In this regard, I can say that it would probably be more comforting to see this government decree, because otherwise it will contain the detailed rules, and the devil is in detail in this regard. It is therefore not clear in what composition the college, who are decision-makers, who can receive 100 million grants on what basis, what results can be obtained. It is also important that this Film College does not become a kind of paying place. I also say this very carefully, but it is in this proposal that 75 percent of the salary of the Secretary of State is the remuneration of the President and 65 percent of the members. Well, that's a big payday. Thus, a significant part of the HUF 7 billion goes to operate the system itself, and this system will operate within a framework that we do not know the exact detailed rules of at this moment. We therefore have a question mark, of course we would support the goals, but there have been a lot of public service objectives here in Parliament over the past few years that have not fulfilled the expectations attached to it. So we're a little careful about the presentation. What I would like to ask you first of all is that during this parliamentary debate, not at this moment, but obviously at a later stage, or until the Legislative Committee, I think it would be a good idea if we could learn a little more about the detailed rules and the government decree in preparation. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2019-03-20-84	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Zsolt Gréczy, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2019-03-20-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, For the record alone, I would have noted that the representative of the Ministry of Man should have been here at least at the level of State Secretary; for when it comes to television genre and culture, the government should be here when we talk about a cultural subject. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs spread his arms.]] I can see that my Fidesz fellow Member is spreading his arms. I don't consider this matter just a budget issue. This is an art issue, a cultural issue, a question about Hungarian identity; we are not just talking about forints in this situation. The Democratic Coalition can support, or open to, any initiative that fosters the heritage of Hungarian culture, and, of course, I was very pleased that the voice of my fellow Member, Fidesz, did not drown in communism, but acknowledged all the intellectual heritage that had been created in this area before the change of regime. For that film and television heritage, I think we can all be proud. Wonderful creators have created wonderful works, not only in TV games, but also in feature films, documentary films and animation films. It's got to be recorded. I also consider it very important to prepare films that further process Hungarian history, especially the XX. History of the century, which has still left a number of cases unexplored, which I think a lot of people would be curious about. At the same time, we also need to see it, and we have questions about it, that, after a Fidesz panel will decide on it here, it is very important, for example, to have a body on this issue and to make decisions that will not make this story a paying place for Fidesz artists, but it will indeed be the talent, the good scenario, the professional ability that will guarantee that these new television works will be completed. It is also important to clarify in this regard, since these television films will certainly be presented on one of the public television channels, so I consider it of particular importance that public television should be released from the pressure of political terror. What is going on there is the world of one-minute newscasts and the so-called public television without opposition, which simply puts these channels in a position where very few people are watching. After these works, which will be born to televisions about the Hungarian cultural heritage, we obviously hope that they will be worthy to be viewed by many, not to hit them in advance, not to press down on the ratings, hopefully high ratings, that in such a political environment, let's say, one-minute news stations, they will be interrupted in place of advertisements. Let's just say a story about István Bethlen to say a conservative politician shouldn't be interrupted by a TV movie because it's just a minute's lie to fill the heads of the TV viewers who are passing by. So to sum up: the Democratic Coalition is open to the initiative; the HUF 7 billion is a starting point, I think it is appropriate. It can create at least 6-8 works, in good case 10-12 works of art for televisions. If these are successful, they should be repeated as often as possible. However, it must be seen that it is not a fidesz place to pay, and that the ratings of these productions will not be affected by any political passing news programme or anything like this, because it would be very bad for both the creators and the viewers. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-20-86	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I'm asking if anyone else wants to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I will ask Congressman Lajos Szűcs if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor.
u2019-03-20-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you all for your input. I have pretty much taken it out of everyone's words that, at least, they do not reject this proposal, but rather support it. Thank you very much for that, precisely because we also consider the value creation that my fellow Member Simon has said to be important in this story. I would like to say that the opening of that HUF 7 billion is included in the bill, and it shows that it can be used as a maximum amount of HUF 500 million for personal expenses and material expenses. And the fact that the government is not here is precisely due to the strangeness of the decision-making house rule that the NMHH cannot submit the legislative amendment proposal only through the Budget Committee due to compliance with the house rules. I would also like to say to Congressman Gréczy that the strange situation could have been that László Varju, who is sitting next to you, who is the chairman of the committee, would have been the rapporteur for this law. I don't think as chairman of the committee he couldn't have done that. This is how the committee's pro-government vice president, which means I'm going to give this speech myself. [[15.00]] In fact, I would like to reassure everyone that the works that are coming and are to be produced can not only be screened on public television, any medium that pays the corresponding royalties can then use these works. I hope that in two or three years' time, we will be able to explain what works were made, where, how successfully we have been able to present this. The value creation that this proposal is actually about is in the interest of all Hungarians. In confidence in this, I thank you for your supporting sentences, and I ask you to support this proposal in Parliament's vote as well. Thank you for your attention, Mr. President. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2019-03-20-88	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. No one showed up for the post-meeting speech. So I thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its session at 11 a.m. next week. Meeting day's closed.
