u2019-12-03-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 16th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Attila Gelencsér and György Szilágyi, notaries will be here to assist me. Welcome to our guests and everyone who's watching our work. Dear Parliament, Mr Zsolt Gréczy, Member of the Democratic Coalition, spoke before the agenda with the title "Fathers and Boys." I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2019-12-03-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, He won a Hungarian film award last week, from which Minister of Justice Judit Varga concluded that he should be a communist. Psychology, well, politics, knows the purpose of cover-up, cover-up. The more someone is involved in a matter he is ashamed of, the more he insists that he cannot be involved in it. This is also the case when, at the time of the change of regime, the current Speaker of the House, who still calls himself a socialist, acts as a communist. This is also the case when Fidesz voted off the publicity of the communist agent files for the 20th time just a few days ago. This is also the case when Judit Varga, Minister of Justice, whose activities we know for the time being that he can bludgeon thirty or so, and that was enough for a velvet chair, begins to deal with Klára Dobrev, the vice-president of the European Parliament, in connection with a film prize. And Klára Dobrev was just as much to blame for who her grandfather was as Judit Varga couldn't help it if Lieutenant III/II was her father. What's worse is Judit Varga pretending his dad didn't do anything, didn't hurt anyone. There's no information about Judit Varga's father that anyone would blackmail him for that particular lieutenant position. He was the manager of a hotel in the curse system before Orbán regime. He also received a reward for his secret service performance. Judit Varga's defense is hardly stopping that his father, as soon as he was told what was expected of him, quit this system because he took the money. The reward of money, which was a multiple of the monthly salary of that year, rebuts Judit Varga's claim as a result. But the real problem is that Fidesz is usually a communist. KISZ Secretary Prime Minister, KISZ Secretary and MSZMP member, Patriot Népfront Chief Ministers are discrediting the Communistisation of Fidesz. Sándor Pintér, János Martonyi, István Stumpf, István Mikola and many others characterize Viktor Orbán's elections. Today, László Kövér also said that Imre Pozsgay would have worked better as President of the Republic than he did his 56 hero Árpád Göncz. But László Fat came home, too. Fidesz and KDNP, the Orbán government, should also finish the communism and try to discredit their political opponents with their families. If I have a problem with Zoltán Pokorni, it's not who his father and grandfather were, it's that he didn't cut off any of his fidesz thieves, unlike his promise. My problem with Viktor Orbán was not that he was a KIS Secretary at the high school, but that he was destroying the country. My problem with Judit Varga is not who his father was, but that he is an accomplice in breaking down the rest of the rule of law. Psychology knows forgiveness even if someone's past burdened Károly Sita was re-elected in Kaposvár. The fair solution would be to evaluate all public figures on the basis of their own human, moral, political performance. László Kövér has such communist ancestors that there is no redder colour on the painty palette than that, but that is not my concern, but that this is how his party speaks of its political rivals, or who undermines the rights of opposition representatives, is not worthy of the position of Speaker of the House. And Klara Dobrev doesn't need protection. Today, the Democratic Coalition is the second strongest party, and he is Vice-President of the European Parliament. This could hurt Judit Varga, but he's talking about something else. It's a shame your dad's past helped you step on the rake. Judit Varga is the victim of Fidesz and the Orbán government. The publicity of the agent files could help us process the past, but Judi Varga serves the government that doesn't care about this clarification, the discovery of the past. We also know why, but this should remain a disgrace to Fidesz. After the change of government in 2022, there will be a lot of work for the current opposition. We need to create a new constitution, restore the freedom of the press, give back the appreciation of health workers, those involved in education, bring poverty and the settlement of international relations crushed to dust, and find corruption cases and bring sinners to justice. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Subway 4 for example?]] But we're also gonna have to make sure that the Fidesz can't cover up some of his backups, and we're gonna have to do this job ourselves. Thank you so much for listening.
u2019-12-03-2	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-12-03-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, There's always some discreet charm when they're communing from DK's benches. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: At least they're authentic! Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] and the past system is evaluated and its shapes are evaluated. I'm always surprised, I have to confess, but it's becoming more and more common. And they recall a case that was made public by the Minister herself, so that investigation by Ákos Hadházy, let's just say, was based precisely on a report in which the Minister spoke about this fact. The other part of the matter is that we are not really distinguished by who the father is, who the son is here rather than father-girl, perhaps I would clarify a little, although I know that an old article is referred to by the congressman, but perhaps not by everyone in today's public life, but by who does what. And if you look at this, in the autumn of 2006, on the 50th anniversary of the revolution, when Ferenc Gyurcsány and his prisoners [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] A horse-riding attack was conducted on a peacefully commemorative crowd when people were shot out with rubber bullets when they mocked Révész Márius, when they really beat up a congressman who showed up his parliamentary ID on the street, then you were quiet. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: In fact! He's become a citizen! Gergényi citizen... Mihály Varga: Shame!]] Then Gábor Demszky decorated the police commissioner who led this attack, then the Minister and her husband stood up for the victims, providing legal assistance to all those who were innocently abused, who were rehabilitated only by this Parliament, which was founded in 2010, and only then were these cases legally restored. And when it comes to '56, the Member said that it doesn't matter who his parents are, although that's what the speech was about. [[9.10]] He quoted Imre Pozsgay. I remember a statement from Imre Pozsgay when he said that those who have blood on their hands should be accounted for. On June 17, 1958, who announced the execution of Imre Nagy and his associates? The one who presented this to the public as a sort of satisfaction? And the problem isn't that it was Antal Tiny. And it's okay that you have a relationship with Clara Dobrev, it's private. The problem is, you're still on the same side. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: That's right!]] Whether you have to adapt to Moscow, it doesn't matter that you have to adapt to Brussels. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Who adjusts to Moscow?]] regardless of whether proletarian internationalism must be served or globalism, you are always opposed to national interests, to this day. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Like this, like this.]] Brussels, European Parliament [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: This one has a discreet charm, Mr. Secretary of State!]] at any international forum, they always try to convince everyone that Hungary must be suppressed, Hungarian interests must not be left to play. You're about to grind us into a globalist international mess, not an international nationalist mess. [[Péter Ungár: What does that mean?]] You are responsible for what happened in this country, for example, between 2002 and 2010; when you wanted to privatise hospitals, you wanted to pay for health care [[Zsolt Gréczy: Because now you don't have to pay for health care!]] training; when hospital daily allowances were introduced, a visit fee was introduced. You have always acted against the interests of the nation and the interests of the people here. [[Zsolt Gréczy: What are you, communist, that you speak like this?]] They wanted to sell the water that's under our feet. They would have stripped us of the water. You couldn't wait to buy the land, so that foreigners could sell it as much as they did the energy sector, the banking sector; as they did the national wealth under the Horn government and the Gyurcsány governments. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Lőrinc Ripper! Tamás Menczer: Did you put the record on?]] ; for example, as sold, they played the last stock market of MOL in Russian hands, which this government had to buy back. And you guys talk about Russian friendship when it cost us a lot of billions? They've sold the country, they've always acted against the nation's interests. And you said very well, Congressman, if you were to rise to power in 22nd, you would have to face poverty again. That was a Freudian saying, if that's what you started your speech with. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Non-freudian comment!]] And I can advise you that if this problem is depressing you, perhaps you should look for a platform where you would finally stand up for national interests, for foreign Hungarians, so that you would not raise energy prices again and support the government in this endeavour. Thank you very much for your patience. [[Zsolt Gréczy: What about Judit Varga? A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-03-4	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Tamás Mellar, Member of the Dialogue Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-12-03-5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I'd like to begin with a quote: "Hungarian in front of me is the one who can't stand the blur, either in prison or in the thought. It is Hungarian who likes meaning, who only releases his passion when the word no longer uses the word to make the truth accepted. All peoples are communities. A good Hungarian is a human, good member of the Hungarian community. These lines were written by Gyula Illyés in 1939 in his study. From the quote, I think it's clear that XX can be read. According to the greatest Hungarian of the 20th century, not the origin, not the bloodline, and not the warlikeness make a man Hungarian, but the intelligent thinking, the taking up of the interests of the Hungarian community. Dear fellow Members, Although I have put to myself a question mark here that he is a journalist, the owner of the Fidesz 5th Party Book in Magyar Televízió a few days ago, along with three of his associates, my fellow group member, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, challenged the Hungarians, saying that even though one can speak Hungarian, he will not be Hungarian, and my fellow Member cannot be Hungarian, because his father was born in Africa, Guinea-Bissau, so obviously he cannot understand the basic issues and problems of Hungarianism or even understand it. By the way, I was deeply outraged by that opinion. But thank God, not only me, but a lot of my fellow Hungarian citizens, it was very visible on Facebook. I object to some journalists wanting to classify my fellow citizens on this basis and to judge who is a good Hungarian. The crime of Kocsis-Cake Olivio, at least according to journalists, was that he invited the citizens of neighbouring countries to a joint memorial in connection with the 100th anniversary of the Trianon Peace Treaty. At this point, I would like to emphasise that the Trianon peace treaty was an unjust peace treaty, because it ripped 3 million Hungarians from the motherland and placed them under external powers. We must always protest against this then and ever since, we must always remember it, and we must know what obligations we have against Hungarians who have fallen outside our borders. But it does not follow from this unjust peace treaty that the best way to protect our internationalized fellow nations is to do what is best in their interests, that, a hundred years after the shameful decision, we are still accusing, hating against the neighbouring countries, the generations born later, which cannot be held responsible for the actions of their grandfathers, their great-grandfathers. I think that it is time for reconciliation, it is very important that we try to live in peace with neighbouring countries, as the Germans and the French have done, and they have been able to agree with each other. In Attila József's poem "A Duna" he speaks of precisely this: "The fight that our heroes have brought, / will be brought to peace by remembering / and settling our common affairs, / this is our work; and it is not little. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I know, Mr. Secretary of State, who will answer me and then start treasoning home, even shooting eyeballs. In my defense, I've already taken professional college students out to Transylvania during the Ceaușescu period to get to know the Hungarians and the culture living there. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Then what are you doing in the Dialogue fraction?]] And after the change of regime, I spent several years teaching at Sapientia University for free and rent. Therefore, I would ask you to concentrate in your response on your willingness to condemn and distance yourself from the racist position of your Fidesz partymate, because it is no longer Kocsis-Cake Olivio's injury, but rather whether the Orbán government is willing to stand in the way of the country's recent fascination. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-12-03-6	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-12-03-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I'd like to start with the things we agree on. [[Németh Szilárd István: It won't be easy.]] We agree that being Hungarian is a decision, not a matter of origin or other external distinguishing features. Moreover, it is not an easy decision, and it is not just XX. This was the case in the century, but also in the earlier centuries of bloodshed. So I think it's a compliment and a compliment to anyone who makes that decision out of internal conviction. By the way, Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, I think this is my personal opinion that you are the most Hungarian member of the Dialogue Group. But what I think is a problem, and what we should be talking about, is what we were talking about yesterday between the speeches before the agenda, that there is something that you do not understand. What you don't understand, Congressman, is what our problem is. We have the problem that Momentum has been doing over the last few weeks. Our problem is that in Transylvania, and our problem is that they left in the Highlands and did not support an ethnic Hungarian party, but supported a Romanian party or a Slovak party. And with that, they crossed a Rubicon that only members of the Democratic Coalition had ever crossed in this House, other parliamentary parties, other opposition factions, we believe that it has not fallen into a fatal and faulty step. [[9.20]] The problem begins there, and here comes the responsibility of the representative and of the Dialogue faction, that if we agree that the issue of national solidarity and the issue of the Hungarian nation is not served by the fact that Hungarian parties, within and outside the parliament, are calling for the support of Hungarian ethnic parties, but of Romanian and Slovak parties, if we can agree on this, then we also need to talk about the issue of political responsibility. The political responsibility, however, is borne by you as members of the Dialogue Group because you are running for election with these political forces. It is not possible to speak up one day and say that, yes, indeed, Hungarians beyond the poor borders, what is happening to them, and why the government does not deal with them any more, and why there is no national consensus in this, and then on the next day we will start in alliance with parties with parliamentary factions or in alliances with parties outside Parliament that deny this consensus and the issue of national solidarity. He was not only a copycat, but he was precisely the Member at the Hungarian Permanent Conference, and he was also monitoring the work of the Diaspora Council, and he could see that those parties were not there, they did not want to meet with Hungarian organisations across the border. They were not interested in the policy of Fidesz and not of the government side, but were not interested in the fact that Hungarian organisations across the border, which do not have a right-wing and left-wing organisation, what they think about this country and what they think about the issue of Hungarians. And then we are not talking about what happened in the dual citizenship referendum, yet we are not talking about what happened during the post-2010 reunification. They do not support these decisions and these actions. They believe that since 2010 there have been over one million new Hungarian citizens, that we have never spent an unprecedented amount of resources for national policy purposes, we are at more than HUF 100 billion, while we have never spent more than HUF 9 billion before, and they disagree. And you are in league with these parties and these politicians. It is not that they are not separated, but that they are campaigning together, starting together, and now forming a majority in certain municipalities. What are we talking about? And that's the problem! And that is the responsibility of all members of the Dialogue faction. There's no way out of this responsibility. And the fact that you're going to teach Sapientia is basic to us. We're all across the border, and those of you who come from a university background, everyone teaches at a university across the border. It's basic. But for this reason, the congressman cannot exclude himself from the responsibility that you, all of the members of the Dialogue, are jointly and severally liable to bear. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-03-8	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP Group, also spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-12-03-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Last week, there was an annual hearing by Minister Kásler on the People's Welfare Committee. He said at the Commission hearing that the unit of basic, outpatient and emergency care is working perfectly, plus funding for trauma and vascular surgery. I would like to respond to these statements with the news released last week, so that we can deny how bad health is in Hungary today. The Csolnoky Ferenc Hospital in Veszprém announced to the authorities at the end of the week that it could not use a third of the beds of its intensive care unit. This is of particular concern because the 12-bed intensive care unit not only serves the hospital's own trauma, surgery and stroke center, but also transports patients from the heart hospital in Balatonfüred to Csolnoky if necessary. Adrianna Soós, president of the Independent Health Union, said that the number of doctors may have increased, but the number of patients has increased even more. In the age group over 60, health problems are increasing, and not only are there territorial imbalances, but also structural problems. In emergency and psychiatric care, most of the patients in intensive care and internal medicine are absent. These are the areas of expertise where the burden is greatest for workers. Mr. Minister's next statement, which caused a great scandal, was that the pathogens of hospital infections are mainly introduced by visitors, who cannot be disinfected from head to toe. Let me give you one piece of data, Mr Secretary of State: while in Hungary 6-8 liters of hand sanitizer is available for a thousand sick days, in Sweden the same rate is 42 liters. And allow me to say from experience why the supply system is still functioning. In my speech last week, I also said that we owe this to health care workers and relatives who work in hospitals because of a shortage of professionals that doctors and nurses should do. The Minister says most of the infections are brought in by relatives. Then let's assume the relatives can't get into the hospitals. Secretary of State, please respond to the lack of specialists, nurses and doctors, because of the work that these relatives do in hospitals because they cannot bear the shortage of professionals they see and perceive who would do it. Who would do, say, bed-bathing, wound dressing, feeding, bathing, daily routine tasks that nurses can't do because only two nurses work in one department. Minister Kásler said that there is a great deal of death among the Hungarian population because patients go to the doctor late. Mr. Secretary of State knows very well that there are many reasons why they are going to see a doctor late. For example, about 600,000 patients do not have access to daily care because of the lack of a GP or a pediatrician. The Secretary of State also knows very well that in many cases patients or Hungarians do not go to the doctor because they fear for their jobs and do not dare to go to sick leave. It can also be seen from the data that every year the number of non-patients increases dramatically, and a lot of people take sick money by getting medical attention with severe diseases because they do not dare to go to the doctor early in the period of recognition. Last week's news was that the hospital debt hasn't been this high in five years. The suppliers turned to Viktor Orbán because the supply companies came close to bankruptcy because the debts of hospitals were over 65 billion. Last week's news is that the recent health report has been published by the EU, which makes very, very bad conclusions on health: chronic underfunding, well below the EU average public expenditure, expenditure significantly below the EU average and in proportion to GDP, and a limited supply package shows that healthcare is not a priority for the government in Hungary. Secretary of State, when will it be when you stand up and acknowledge the need for immediate intervention in the field of health and you acknowledge the need to invest more money in health care? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2019-12-03-10	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2019-12-03-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, At the end of your speech, you were talking about the proportion of health expenditure compared to GDP, and you said how good it would be if the Hungarian government spent a higher proportion on healthcare compared to the total national product. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If you look at the period of your governance in the publication that has come into your hands, you will find that between 2003 and 2010, in real terms, from all OECD countries, i.e. from all developed countries, where and to what extent per capita health expenditure has increased in terms of GDP. You will see that in many Member States it is growing to a smaller or greater extent and will see a single Member State where it has fallen, where, in real terms, less than the total national product has been spent per capita on health care. [[9.30]] And the only country that will be in the negative range between 2003 and 2010 is Hungary. In addition, the only government that has withdrawn tangible amounts of resources from healthcare had to be very noticeable, since GDP has also decreased, and even compared to that, you have reduced the cost of health as a percentage of GDP, it was only your government and only Hungary during this period. But if you turn a page, honourable Member, and look at what happened after 2010, you will also see that there are growing small charts of how much more people have spent. And if you look at where Hungary is, you will see that there are only six countries with an increase in the number of resources spent on health care in proportion to GDP. The seventh fastest, the seventh largest proportion of Hungary increased its health expenditure. This is not said by the Hungarian government; this is not said by any Hungarian statistical institutes or by the HCSO, as the OECD says, honourable Member, that you were the only ones with a reduction in per capita health expenditure as a percentage of GDP, and that the seventh has increased to the largest extent since 2010, is also said by the OECD, honourable Member. You can stand up here in Parliament and demand that we say that more is needed, and we agree that we will devote more to this, only we have shown how more can be spent on this. What you have shown me is the only way to reduce health resources, honourable Member. And it's no coincidence that it was reduced in your time because you shut down four hospitals. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Zsolt Gréczy constantly intervene.]] For weeks now, all your communications have been about is whether you're here or there or there will be no hospital closure. But since we've been in government, there hasn't been a single hospital closure, unlike your time, when from the Children's Hospital in Svabhegy to OPNI, from Szabolcs Street Hospital to Schöpf-Mere Hospital, you've had no way of shutting down hospitals, and that obviously involved the liquidation of 16,000 hospital beds. You are talking about the need for more health workers, Madam honourable Member. If you look at the proportion of doctors, I think you see that the proportion on the European scale is about the same; there really is a need for more nurses than nurses. That's why the government started us to raise the salaries of the nurses by 72 percent in four years, because that's the ratio we've done lower than the average. But you, honourable Member, have laid off 6,000 workers! How come you're standing up here now and you're telling me that you need more health workers while you're on the government, not just hiring health workers, but getting laid off? ! Not only did they replace the one who quit, but the one who was inside, a doctor, a nurse, you also dismissed them to go abroad or to work in a private institution. [[Zsolt Gréczy: President of the Medical Chamber...]] We strive to make sure that as few people as possible quit public health, that's why the gross medical wage increase of HUF 207 thousand two years ago was the gross increase; that's why there is now a 72 percent increase in nursing wages; that's why between 2010 and 2022 both doctors and nurses increase their incomes more than twice. But you took a month's wages from each of them, and you dismissed them, fired these doctors and nurses, and then you demand why there are no more nurses, why there are no more doctors! We try to do what we can by raising our wages. And, honourable Member, if you are so concerned about the state of health, if you have not already come to the meeting of the People's Welfare Committee, which you have just quoted, then you should go on a pilgrimage to the meeting of the Capital Assembly, talk to the members of the MSZP and the other opposition parties, and convince them not to vote against the Budapest super hospital, but to build a XXI. a modern institution of the century, which meets all expectations of the age, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] He could provide up to 1.5 million people. If you're so committed, go and convince them not to interfere with the construction of the super hospital. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Zsolt Gréczy: You've had ten years to build it... ten years!]]
u2019-12-03-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Ungár, Member of the LMP Group, has also applied for a speech before the agenda:, Long live Szombathely! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Long live May Day!]]
u2019-12-03-13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, The fact is that things have come to light in Szombathely in two cases that require the attention of the Parliament. [[Németh Szilárd István: Na!]] The first is that Fidesz announced that we should give Szombathely new impetus together, this was announced on a poster on the wall of the old shoe factory Péter Balázsy, since then it has not been a successful candidate for mayor. According to documents acquired by the local portal ugyük.hu, however, this contract was not concluded by Fidesz, which resulted in this poster or which caused this poster to be removed, but by Vasi Rádió Kft. In consultation with several lawyers, it is quite likely that the party law or party funding is not in line with the fact that a legal person provides support to a party in this way, because the fact is that only a party can enter into a partnership on the basis of which a party poster will be created in a campaign. Let us refer here to the incredible way that Jobbik was punished by the State Audit Office for the fact that they did not think that the posters were legally released at the time. I would like to say that the State Audit Office has not yet acted in this case, where the documents are already public. I do not know why, but to put it mildly, legal certainty is not reinforced by the fact that the State Audit Office does not act on such a breach of party funding. It's okay, the legal steps we, the Long Live Szombathely Association, will take. The thing is, Tamás Kis-Kádi is the managing director of this kft. I am pleased that my fellow Member Hende is in the Chamber; I think Tamás Kis-Kádi, by the way, Mr Zalaegerszegi, Csaba Hende, has known him for a long time. The fact is that this man and the related company received more than HUF 800 million from EU support, and it is not subtle to say that this man is not related to Fidesz, because West Pannon Automotive and Mechatronics Center Nonprofit Kft. delegated by Fidesz to its supervisory board. It's cvt. It's a fidesz company. It's cvt. There's a thousand ties to Fidesz, and there's a suspicion that Fidesz played the campaign in Szombathely to which companies Fidesz played it. I'd like to talk to you about another case. Vasivíz, which is one of the most important companies in Vas county, is a very important company, the new majority wants to name a new leader, Miklós Molnár, who, by the way, is well-known to the civilian side, and I congratulate him on his new mandate, for whom the civilian side has difficulty in saying that he is not fit to supervise public funds, because he was a deputy mayor responsible for the budget until 2018, and in 2006 he was a candidate for mayor supported by Fidesz. Csaba Hende's grudge against him [[Csaba Hende will spread his hands.]] In the Iron People, we have been able to read in the last few weeks what Miklós Molnár is unfit for. On the other hand, you are afraid of finding out what money was spent in Iron Water. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Water.]] The wonderful example of this is that Viktor Kohut, who would have been able to vote for a maximum of 9 months' severance pay, had a gross HUF 36 million voted for himself, in fact 60 million, by sending the auditor out of the Vasivíz board meeting. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Vasivíz is not a company of the Parliament...]] 60 million. The fact is that it was so inconvenient that when he saw the public, he himself, probably under fidesz pressure, withdrew this, but after that he didn't vote for the mayor's 2 months' severance pay, but for the 9th. They know that if this had happened in a metropolitan district, he would have given the word to Origo by now that the Pesti Guys were describing what the 888 called for. The thing is, you didn't say anything about it. This is an immeasurable double standard, which is also rare in Hungary. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári and Lőrinc Nacs will intervene.]] The thing is, in Ironwater, you've been feeding more people with fidesz, completely meaningless. In Iron Water, Miklós Molnár will clean up, he will see who is paid for. That is why my fellow Member Hende is so afraid that his old ally and his new enemy will be the leader of Iron Water. [[Csaba Hende claps slowly.]] Miklós Molnár will see that those who are now taken to Sárvár, why they have received money and will tidy up whatever happens there, no matter how much hysterical you are. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2019-12-03-14	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-12-03-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Sometimes I had the feeling, listening to his speech, that he was confusing the town assembly in Szombathely with Parliament. [[Interventions from the benches of the governing parties: That's right!]] I was wondering why, and then I realized that because you really had nothing to do with Szombathely, and that is why the only forum where you can tell me these things, these accusations, is the Parliament, because, in a very clear way, watching your movement, your goal is to somehow skydivide to Szombathely. [[Péter Ungár's intervention.]] His powers, his powers, his interests in Szombathely. It doesn't matter what the city's interest is, it doesn't matter what's right and what's wrong, you decide to go there and make your fortune there. This is called political luck in politics. The thing is, when you start acting like a godfather in Szombathely, there's a problem, there's a left-wing liberal godfather in Szombathely. [[9.40]] So you have to fight it. This godfather is called Csaba Czeglédy, the lawyer of Ferenc Gyurcsány, and the favorite on the left. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Criminal!]] Your legal expert, as Congressman Nacsa is quite right here, and it can be said that you are shouting the facts perfectly: a criminal. [[Zsolt Gréczy: We'll send him the recording! You're gonna pay!]] In addition, Csaba Czeglédy was not convicted after 2010, so you can't even say what you say is that the courts under the influence of the right are not. He was suspended before 2010 for violations of tax evasion, forgery of private documents and forgery of accounting discipline. This is your comrade. And for the godfathership of Szombathely, this is Csaba Czeglédy, you two are fighting now, because you, of course, can't do this in the general assembly of the county-righted city, so you're doing it here in front of Parliament. So in Csaba Czeglédy's case, it's not just a closed crime, but Parliament has suspended his immunity, which, by the way, LMP has not voted for. You have not voted to suspend his immunity, despite the fact that it is an already convicted criminal. One more thing I would like to do is that when left-wing political parties broke loose on the municipalities, and what we saw in the last few weeks, the old advisors came back, the old friends came back, the old lawyers, the old contracts came back, then suddenly there were several district councils who again signed contracts with Csaba Czeglédy. By the way, there were parties within the opposition coalition who attacked this, such as Momentum and Jobbik. By the way, there was another couple who would've attacked him, that would've been LMP. If the press reports are correct in this regard, it can be said that you stopped this attack. So I can't help but think that you and Csaba Czeglédy have an inseparable, very close political and other relationship. And you're struggling to get as much power as you can in Szombathely. There is a problem with this: it is not about the Saturdays, it is about the power; while the government helps Szombathely where he can, regardless of the colour, the political composition of the city's management. Take a look at the modern city program, see what developments have been made in the framework of it! [[Zsolt Gréczy: Then why did you fail Szombathely?]] For example, the investment was made in connection with the construction of the reservoir in Dozmat, and further investments can be expected in the framework of the programme: visitor centre, gallery, implementation of St. Martin's plan, industrial park development, tennis centre, indoor swimming pool expansion. These are all in the interests of the people of Saturday. In the same way that the news, which has seen the recent days, that a new factory is being built in Szombathely, which Schaeffler Hungary is building, will mean billions of business tax revenues to Szombathely, and the government has supported this investment with billions of HUF. So while the government side, the elected parliamentary representative of the region, is working on the development and construction of Szombathely, while you are doing nothing but fighting for your own power interests and playing a local godfather. In addition, to make this worse, you will bring this story to Parliament. I think it's a shame. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-03-16	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Tibor Nunkovics, Member of the Jobbik Group, also applied for a speech before the agenda: what does the government do about the climate crisis? You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-12-03-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, On Friday, a climate strike was also held in Budapest, which was organized by schoolchildren, and it moved thousands of people. I think that we could take an example of these young people, because they feel the gravity of the situation far more than many of my fellow Members in the walls of this House. It is important to note that this demonstration and event on Friday was not against the Fidesz or not against the ruling parties, but was in favour of a case, in addition to a united attempt to tackle this serious situation and the worsening situation. I know you're on that communication panel right now that there's no climate crisis. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Who said that?]] [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Who said that?]] [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Who said that?]] In fact, climate change is a fake (Dr. Bence Rétvári: Who said that?) In fact, everything is fine, because yesterday we found out that the snow was also raining, so there is no serious change. (Dr. Bence Rétvári: Who said that? ) On the other hand, climate change is a process that has existed since the existence of our Earth. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Nobody told me!]] Uh, Hoppal's colleague said so, and I'm talking right now. So climate change is a process that has been present since the existence of the Earth, for which mankind, including large companies, is doing a serious speeding-up work. That is what I think everyone should understand and make rational decisions for this. Hungary is a small country, but we also have a responsibility, and we must also create at home the legal backgrounds, laws, and background institutions that can mitigate the effects of this climate change and set goals that are realisticly feasible. Although it would have been nice if the Fidesz-KDNP governments hadn't bombed these backup institutions in the last nine years. Therefore, Jobbik will fight for environmental protection, climate policy and sustainable development to have background institutions that would not allow repeated cases such as those at the Mátra Power Plant. The action, I think, needs to be approached from two sides. One is to have an individual responsibility, a social responsibility that needs to be brought to the attention of people. And that is also important, because politics has a big role to play in this, too. We need to show people what the small steps they can take to combat these changes in their everyday lives are. By the way, there are a lot of these little practices, just as an example, if you visit Jobbik.hu, you can see a lot of them. The other is the responsibility of major politics, and of the number one decision-makers, of the governing parties, because we are disengaged here in Parliament in vain, and we are consulting with experts, recognised people in the scientific world, who have been sitting in your ranks recently, or who have been behind you, or who have been your advisors; so it is in vain that we are working with these people, if you are unthinkingly rejecting every initiative in this regard, and we find it unacceptable that Fidesz is voting off these initiatives for its own economic interests. We consider it necessary to review both our climate strategy for 2030 and 2050, as it has been a long time since they were defined; the first one in 2011 and since then there have been a lot of changes on this front. But where is the government programme in which you, my fellow members of the Government, promised 300,000 solar panels for the Hungarian rooftops? It seems that business interests have changed these initiatives since then. Jobbik imagines a future where sustainable development is a key factor for Hungary and where everyday governments form their economic policies and environmental objectives in this respect. However, this cannot be achieved within the current framework. We do not see the rise in renewable energy sources. However, we see that there is a Mátrai power plant in the hands of Lőrinc Mészáros, which has now become a loss, so the state will have to buy it back so that Lászóke does not suffer any damage. There is also a need for selective waste collection, and there is also a shortage of waste shipments across the country, and there is no need to talk about recycling, because it almost does not exist. Jobbik imagines a future where we deal with these problems and solve them, not delay them or base them. Dear fellow Members, I would like to ask Viktor Orbán... or to apologize, Lőrinc Mészáros, to start investing in renewable energy sources, in case there is any change. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[9.50]]
u2019-12-03-18	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Tamás Schanda responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-12-03-19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The fact is that I did not really understand the statement you made in your speech, because if you were in this room yesterday, you could have listened to this debate once before, but I repeat once again: action against climate change is our shared responsibility and responsibility, in order to protect the created world and to protect our environmental heritage, the government wants to take all the necessary steps. In this he welcomes all the comments and suggestions that take into account the interests of the Hungarian people. Congressman, allow me to continue immediately by saying that it is rare when more bureaucracy is demanded from opposition benches than action. The fact is that from the opposition side, I suggested and counted it, four or five times he said that there is a need for new background institutions, and we need additional bureaucracy, a very innovative and special proposal in the fight against climate change. I must honestly say that we do not want more background institutions, not more bureaucratic steps, but real action. This is what the various government measures are about, because the protection of our environmental heritage determines not only the country, not just our nation, but the future of the whole world. It is quite simply unworthy, and I do not think it will succeed if the opposition tries to expropriate it for the sake of political self-interest. It would be time not for party political contributions to be made rather than party politics, but rather for the opposition to talk about the specifics and make its own proposals. [[Gergely Arató: Let's hear the specifics!]] Honourable Congressman, The fact is that Hungary has strong climate protection objectives, we have set out strong targets, action plans and measures. Let me also stress this with the European Union's 2030 targets, because we have the EU Action Plan and the resources to do so. Moreover, we have undertaken more than the 2030 EU target. We didn't just do as much as we needed, we did more than that. We agreed that by 2030 90% of Hungarian energy production will be emission-free. We will keep this commitment. Honourable Congressman, The protection of the environment and the fight against climate change are important for Hungary, because we all want cleaner air, clean water and a more bearable climate, but therefore only action can be taken. And allow me to give you some specifics. For example, we increase the size of forest areas from 21 percent to 27 percent in Hungary. This year, almost 50 million trees are planted in public forests under the tree planting programme, and in 2019 we want to increase the area of Hungarian forests by 6 000 hectares, which, we all know, also contributes significantly to the cleanliness of air and the fight against climate change. However, we can see that we also support electromobility significantly in order to reduce pollution. By the end of 2018, more than 190 electric charging stations were established thanks to government subsidies and a significant number of residential electric cars were purchased with government support. And it can also be said, honourable Member, that, moreover, Hungarian government efforts have been successful, as since 2010, the greenhouse gas intensity of the Hungarian economy has improved by 24 percent, i.e. the output of unit GDP, which indicates that climate protection is not an obstacle to economic growth, but can also strengthen it. As you can see, the emissions data for the year 18 confirm this. GDP growth in Hungary was 4.9 per cent, while the ughg emissions decreased by 0.6 per cent, also breaking the trend of recent years. So this shows that GDP is increasing [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] emissions are decreasing. It is necessary to continue to achieve such results in order to support the government [[The president's ringing again.]] his plans. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-03-20	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament, KDNP Group, applied for a pre-meeting address on the occasion of St. Barbara's Day. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
u2019-12-03-21	Your Honour, Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Lords! Mr. Secretary of State! One day before Borbála Day, the patron saint of miners and smiths, on the occasion of tomorrow's mining day, allow me to welcome from here, from the house of the country the active and retired representatives of this long-standing profession, as well as all those who guard and cherish the traditions of this noble profession. This profession has once made our country great and rich not only in a material but also in a spiritual sense, because Bergschule, founded in Seltiavnica in 1735, the Mining Academy, has basically defined the technical higher education of the following centuries, and still has a tangible impact on it. As an example, I mention the University of Miskolc, where engineers with advanced knowledge of science, technology, economics and management, who are experienced in mining activities and in tackling natural hazards and environmental problems are trained to maintain and maintain the traditions of Selmec. From the very beginning, mining in Hungary has been associated with the development of a specific professional culture, which has finally reached wider sections of society. Special miners' garments, songs, musical pieces, or unique artworks made by the miners both hold a picture of a community that wants to live and survive and bring it to our attention. Unfortunately, the glory of the past is now mostly just a memory. With the Trianon peace dictatorship, we lost our most valuable mines, and the majority of those remaining became unsustainable under market economy conditions. Nevertheless, in the course of the reorganisation of domestic industry, the integration of mines and power plants, we were all confident here in Parliament that mining would be necessary also under the new ownership, technical and technological conditions. The symbolic sign of this is the Saint Barbara Medal, founded in 1993. The assumption that mining does not lose its place of existence in the 21st century. In the century, it proved to be true, even though many people today, at the beginning of the digital economy, are more interested in mining data and cryptovatals than in coal and ore. However, we must see that the growing demand for energy for mankind leads not only to the wider use of alternative and renewable energy sources, but also to the recovery of mining in many cases. As an example, I can mention the use of underwater drones or new X-ray exploratory procedures or 3D imaging techniques in geological research, the dissemination of new technologies in the field of oil and natural gas extraction, which will also make it worthwhile to restart extraction in areas where work has stopped in recent decades. The fate of domestic mining is also crucial in this context because in the future energy, especially energy independence, is increasingly appreciated, while carbon-freeness is becoming increasingly important. In this area, the government intends to make more than 90 percent of our electricity production CO2-free by 2030, as we have already heard from the Secretary of State, so Hungary will fulfil its commitments to the Union. The way and role of domestic coal so far will change as before. [[10.00]] But this should not lead to our dependence on energy imports continuing to grow. That is why I hope that this long-standing profession will have a future here in Hungary and in our country. Trusting in this, and giving this faith, I wish you good luck on tomorrow's holiday with a miner's greeting. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-12-03-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Tamás Schanda wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-12-03-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for drawing attention to a section of Hungarian history that has played a decisive role over a thousand years and has been an integral part of our country's strengthening. The importance of Hungarian mining was known and recognised throughout Europe. The mining towns and settlements have earned themselves a worthy rank, from the Highlands to Komlo, from Tatabány to Transcarpathia the Hungarian mining has flourished. This sector has been the most important Hungarian industry for almost a thousand years. It has grown from it the dominant industrial areas, such as the chemical industry and the mechanical industry. Mining has provided a framework for the development of different disciplines from chemistry to geometry, and has also had a major impact on the development of technical higher education, thereby strengthening scientific knowledge, for example, if you have mentioned the establishment of the nearly 300-year-old Selmec Academy, the legal predecessor of the Universities of Miskolc and Sopron. The tradition created by the academics is still alive and flourishing; it is an impressively colourful and exemplary way of strengthening professional cohesion, which continues to accompany former students many years after graduation. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, In recent years, we have done much to preserve the traditions of the long-standing industry and to develop the best possible vision for those working in the sector. In 2018, a government decision on an action plan on the exploitation and stock management of energy mineral resources was issued, aiming at reducing import dependency by using domestic stocks in a cost-effective and environmentally friendly way. Thanks to these measures, new domestic projects, jobs and supply chains have been created. Since 2013, seven concession rounds have been completed, with the result that 35 hydrocarbon and 4 geothermal energy research and production rights have been granted. The winning applicants have made a total of HUF 64 billion in domestic investment and an additional HUF 40 billion in optional research work programme. The renewable concession system has already had tangible results, as the decline in production has stopped in recent years and has even started to grow in the last two years. This year, 35 percent of the oil produced and 10 percent of the natural gas recovered came from the concession areas, which only this year meant HUF 10 billion in mining income to the budget. Honourable Congressman, In order to promote R &amp; D and innovation, the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, together with representatives of the profession, established the Energy Innovation Council, which is working in seven working groups to explore domestic energy innovation opportunities and develop a regulatory environment to encourage the use of innovation solutions. As a result of our work, since 2013, the increase in sand and gravel production has increased by more than 40 percent, the amount of oil extracted has increased by 29 percent and the amount of natural gas has increased by 10 percent, while the utilisation of geothermal energy has increased by 35 percent over four years. Honourable Congressman, We are also working on a further future, which will be based on a new national energy strategy, which is developing well. Our main objective is to ensure coherence between energy policy and climate policy, so that energy is clean, smart and affordable. We would like to update the domestic energy sector framework and its objectives in such a way that a sustainable, functional material is produced, which is in the interest of public property policy, while at the same time in accordance with EU law. Our strategic objective is to encourage the use of renewable energy sources. Hungary's geological capabilities are extremely good with regard to geothermal energy, which will be a competitive alternative to other energy sources. We need to take advantage of this potential. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, Mining is a decent and honest work, and Hungarian miners are strong people, they stand firm and hold fast to their values. The appreciation, professional knowledge and experience of miners are still needed today. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-12-03-24	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Erik Bánki, Member of the Fidesz Group, has applied for a pre-meeting address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2019-12-03-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, The concern for Hungarian families and Hungarian jobs made me speak today. Reading, listening and seeing the news almost every day, information is received that refers to the global economic crisis. It's enough to recall the news for the last month. Dismissions began in the two factories of the Audi in Germany, however, there are also places where the same company has developed numbers. However, it is a fact that 9,500 jobs have been lost and terminated continuously in two German plants, Ingolstadt and Neckarslum. We have also read that the BMW would be separated from 5-6 thousand employees in Germany by 2022. The cuts concern mainly the company's central location in Munich. The world's largest airbag and safety belt manufacturer, Swedish Autoliv, published in October in order to cut back its expectations for 2019 and significantly reduce the number of employees. According to many, it is not a good sign that investors are looking for alternative and safe opportunities these days, turning spectacularly towards gold, there has long been no such interest in precious metals as in recent weeks. At the same time, the news about Hungary gives rise to confidence. As we have seen last week, investment has increased significantly, earnings continue to rise steadily, and gross domestic product shows that we are the fastest growing country in the European Union. This is a huge achievement, since we should remember that in 2008 the global economic crisis at the time brought Hungary down from its feet because of the failed domestic political decisions, the bad and wrong economic policy. Thousands of people have lost their jobs, hundreds of thousands of families are at risk because of their currency loans, many have been forced to start a new life away from their country. Experience in 2008 has shown how important a government can play a role in protecting its inhabitants from the dangers caused by the economic crisis. Let us remember, for example, that the financial and economic crisis in 2008 reached the Polish economy at a rapid growth stage, and although the pace of growth slowed down as a result of the crisis, Poland is uniquely in Europe even in the most critical periods of 2008 and 2009 [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] has managed to produce positive growth results. And even though crisis phenomena have finally spread to Poland, it has reached the country to a much smaller extent and much less depth than the other EU Member States. The crisis management has thus proved successful in the short term, mainly due to the lucky starting position and the timely introduction of government measures, rapid, effective and effective reforms. There is a common agreement that the Hungarian economy today is in an irreparably better position than it was in 2008. In addition to sustained growth, public finances are low and public debt is constantly falling. The number of people at work and the number of actions are constantly increasing, and the population's savings are increasing. It can therefore be said that the Hungarian economy is in good shape, but unfortunately, the majority of Hungarian families have become accustomed to the recent decades that the global economic crisis will sooner or later spread and the standard of living will decrease. [[10.10]] The signs of the crisis, my fellow Members, have been present for a year and a half, but in Hungary, they are only coming to us in the form of distant news. We hope that the processes, the figures and figures that indicate the growth of the economy, which have been due to government measures in recent years, will maintain the stability of the Hungarian economy in Hungary and will contribute, as the Polish example has shown, to Hungary's ability to escape the crisis and crisis that has taken place with as little loss as possible. I would therefore like to ask, Minister, what measures the Government is trying to take to prevent the ever deepening crisis affecting the European Union from affecting the Hungarian economy or to the least extent possible. We are convinced that this is the only way to protect Hungary, the Hungarian citizens, from the challenges of the new economic crisis, its negative effects, and with an effective, good economic policy, the Hungarian government will be able to achieve a minimal impact on them. I look forward to your reply, Minister. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-03-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Before I give the floor to Minister Mihály Varga, I would like to ask my honourable fellow Members, especially those who have just arrived, to take their seats quietly, the basic noise in the room is very high, and you cannot hear the answer with integrity. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Minister Mihály Varga responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Minister.
u2019-12-03-27	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The concern expressed by the Member is undoubtedly justified and timely. It is a fact that the Hungarian economy has been doing well and balanced for years, and the pace of economic growth is significantly above the EU average, and we are in the first place in the EU ranking. It is also a fact that the expansion of the Hungarian economy has long been fed not on debt but on internal growth engines. In addition, despite constantly decreasing taxes, we have been able to reduce the level of public debt, and there is an increasing lack of public finances. The number of people working is persistently high, there have not been as many people working in the Hungarian economy since the change of regime as at present, and the unemployment rate has not been as low. In Hungarian economic history, there is rarely an example of a period such as the one we are living in now, when we are on a track of catching up for a relatively long period of time. The government's objective is therefore clear: we must stay on this path. For this to be the case, we have to take account of the fact that political and economic changes that are important for the Hungarian economy are taking place and are taking place. Although we cannot yet talk about a recession, it is a fact that economic growth is slowing down in the world economy, in the EU and in our view, in a particularly important German economy. This in itself is a challenge for an open economy like ours. However, we must consider that the consequences of the trade war between America and China will also affect the pace of economic growth with the Brexit and the new geopolitical conflicts, and not least with the European Union's current internal relations. It follows that one of the biggest issues of next year will be to maintain the growth of the Hungarian economy, to protect our performance even when there is a significant slowdown in the euro area. This will be our most important task in 2020 and we need to prepare a new economic protection action plan. We know that, not only has migration policy been a failure in the European Union in recent years, but economic policy has also been poor. These include the fact that Britain, which is one of the strongest economies in the European Union, is leaving the European Union, while the competitiveness of the euro area economy is not rising sufficiently. It is clear from the figures that there is a much more dynamic growth in both Asia and America vis-à-vis the European Union. The Hungarian economy has been able to perform better in recent years because we have reduced taxes and maintained the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy, and we have even been able to improve this. Ladies and gentlemen, The government's economic policy is clearly aimed at sustaining rapid growth and increasing people's well-being. We are taking measures to keep this growth rate in Hungary in the coming years, which we need in order to catch up. We want to increase employment further, as there are still people who cannot find jobs. This can only be achieved if we strive to create higher productivity and higher jobs. Our important task is to reduce the external vulnerability of our country. The Member indicated in his speech that we have succeeded in doing this in recent years. It is an important fact for stability that the government debt is getting smaller, it now reaches only 68 percent of gross domestic product, and the structure of the debt has also changed, the foreign exchange debt ratio was 52 percent at the end of 2011, and it is now falling below 20 percent. The 13+1 measure of the economic protection action launched this year was approved and voted for by Parliament. More than half of this is already in place, and the following will take effect on 1 January. It is clear that we have been able to reduce negative external processes with this. The backbone of the series of measures was tax cuts, which are in line with the government's economic policy. We left a total of HUF 2600 billion in three years with Hungarian companies. This enabled companies to raise or invest in wages and thus improve the competitiveness of the economy. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Hungary has been part of Europe for more than a thousand years, so we cannot fully exclude ourselves from the effects of the European slowdown. The aim is to maintain a growth rate of at least 2 percent above the EU average, so at the beginning of next year, as I have already mentioned, the government will launch a new economic protection action plan. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-03-28	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work by taking decisions on the agenda. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats and to check that their cards have been placed in the voting machine. It's time for a vote. The Government of Hungary and the Government of Montenegro will follow the process of publishing the Protocol between the Hungarian People's Republic/Hungarian Republic and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia/Jugoslav Socialist Federal Republic/Jugoslav Federal Republic/Serbia and Montenegro on the roll-out of state in bilateral international treaties. Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur was Mr T/7688/2. has submitted an adjustment, which is available on the network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/7688. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the adjusted bill with 168 votes in favour and no votes against and no abstentions. Following the line, the T/7997 on the announcement of the extradition agreement between Hungary and the Kingdom of Morocco. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/7997. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill unanimously, with 170 votes in favour, without a vote against and without abstention. The T/8000, between the Government of Hungary and the Secretariat of the Cooperation Council of the Turk-speaking States, on the announcement of the headquarters agreement on the Hungarian Representation Office of the Cooperation Council of the Turk-speaking States. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/8000. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 125 votes in favour, 40 against and without abstention. [[10.20]] Following a series of amendments to the Agreement on Economic Partnership, Political Coordination and Cooperation between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the United Mexican States, of the other part, on the third Additional Protocol on the publication of the Third Additional Protocol to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union Final vote of bill No 1. [[Noise in lines of LMP, DK and MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/8001. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the bill by 172 votes in favour. Following a series of articles, T/8002 between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Bahrain on the issuing of the Agreement on the visa waiver for nationals of diplomatic, service and special passport holders. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8002. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the bill by 172 votes in favour. It follows that T/6265 on the implementation of the single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority for the year 2018. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6265. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 118 votes in favour, 54 against and without abstentions. The next step will be the T/7839 on the National Media and Infocommunications Authority's single budget for 2020. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/7839. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 118 votes in favour, 54 against and without abstentions. It follows that T/6576 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the reduction of young people's smoking and the protection of non-smokers will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/6576/8. and the summary report by T/6576/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/6576/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 118 votes to 49, with four abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6576/10. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 117 votes in favour, 37 against and 15 abstentions. T/8015 on the amendment of the laws implementing certain tax measures of the Programme for Competitive Hungary Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/8015/8. T/8015/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/8015/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 118 votes to 31, with 24 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8015/10. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 143 votes to 31, with no abstentions. Following a series of amendments to the T/7686 Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, of the other part. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/7686/6. T/7686/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/7686/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 163 votes in favour, no votes against, with 10 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/7686/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the single proposal by 171 votes in favour. The T/8012 on the announcement of an agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the settlement of questions concerning the needs of the diplomatic representation of the Republic of Bulgaria in Budapest Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/8012/6. T/8012/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/8012/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 160 votes in favour, no votes against, with 14 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8012/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal with 167 votes in favour, no votes against, with 5 abstentions. Following a series of amendments to Act I of 2007 on the entry and residence of persons with the right of free movement and residence and to Act XV of 2019 concerning the necessary amendment of certain laws in the event of the unsettled exit of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union T/8027 on the amendment of the Act Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/8027/5. and its summary report is T/8027/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/8027/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 166 votes in favour, no votes against, with 7 abstentions. [[10.30]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8027/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the single proposal by 174 votes in favour. The T/7996 on the announcement of the Convention between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on the transfer of sentenced persons. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/7996/6. T/7996/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/7996/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 166 votes in favour, no votes against, with 8 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/7996/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the single proposal by 172 votes in favour. The 2011 CXC on National Public Education. T/803 on the amendment of the Act Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8003. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 173 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. The 2013 CII on fish management and the protection of fish. T/8036. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/8036/6. and the summary report by T/8036/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/8036/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the summary amendment by 174 votes in favour. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8036/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the single proposal by 172 votes in favour. Following in a row, the 1990 XCIII on the charges. T/8038. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/8038/6. T/8038/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the Group of Dialogue proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Mr Olivio. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] On the basis of paragraph 1 of this Article, the Dialogue Group has proposed that Amendment 2 be maintained. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Mr Olivio. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. (Vote.) The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 61 votes in favour, 111 against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/8038/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 141 votes in favour, 28 against and 5 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/8038/9. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 142 votes in favour, 16 against and 15 abstentions. The 2014 LXXVI on Scientific Research, Development and Innovation. T/8032 on the amendment of Act T/8032 and certain related legislative provisions Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/8032/5. T/8032/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/8032/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 118 votes in favour, 55 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the house rules are 51. Pursuant to paragraph 1 of Section 1 of the Act, the author initiated the postponement of the final vote. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before making a decision, I will ask the rapporteur to explain the reasons for the initiative. [[There's no candidate.]] The rapporteur initiated the postponement of the final vote pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before making a decision, I will ask the rapporteur to explain the reasons for the initiative. (No applicants.) I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, It's time for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/8032 will postpone it. The final vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament postponed the final vote on the proposal by 133 votes to one, with 40 abstentions. Following is T/7846 on the amendment of certain energy laws for harmonisation purposes. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/7846/5. T/7846/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/7846/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 149 votes to 16 with 9 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/7846/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 143 votes to 17 with 14 abstentions. [[10.40]] Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday, the Parliament has already held a hearing on these matters. I ask you, you will be included in a series of articles by Ferenc Gyurcsány and Gergely Arató, DK, representatives of the spinal cord in muscular dystrophy. on certain questions concerning the financing of children with disabilities, H/7240. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution 57 yes, 111 with no vote and three abstentions. I ask you, you will be listed in a series of articles by Bertalan Tóth, MSZP, and its fellow Members, T/8190. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill in the series 60 yes, 112 non-voting and 1 abstention. I ask you, you will be included in a series of articles entitled, by Bertalan Tóth, MSZP, and its fellow Members, on the strengthening of social security for workers and the enforcement of the requirements of organised labour relations, H/8191. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution in a series of 56 yes, 116 no votes and 1 abstentions. I ask you, you will be included in a series of articles titled Bence Torda, Dialogue, and Collaboration of the Climate Emergency, T/7021. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament took the bill into consideration in 167 yes, 4 with no vote and 2 abstentions. I ask you, you will be included in a series of articles entitled "The Enforcement of the Provisions of the New Capital Assembly in Hungary," H/7960. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution in a series of 32 yes, 121 non-voting and 20 abstentions. I ask you, you will include the Z. Carpathian by Dániel, Jobbik, Member, LIII of 1994 on the enforcement of the court. T/7701. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill in a series of 54 yes, 115 non-voting and three abstentions. I ask you, you will be listed in a series of articles by Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP, and its fellow Members, H/7380. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament took the proposal for a resolution into consideration 167 yes, 1 with no vote and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows a series of 5/2018 on the establishment of parliamentary committees, the election of its officials and members. decision to amend a parliamentary decision. S/8364 submitted by the President You can find out more about this on the website. I would like to ask Mr Attila Gelencsér to present the content of the personal proposal put forward by the President.
u2019-12-03-29	5/2018 on the establishment of committees, election of officials and members of the Parliament Paragraph 1 of Resolution No 1 is amended as follows: instead of Gergely Arató, DK, László Sebian-Petrovszki, DK, Dr. Imre László, DK, elects Gergely Arató, DK, member of the Committee, to become a member of the Committee. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2019-12-03-30	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept S/8364. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the personal proposal by 164 votes in favour, with four abstentions. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. Thank you for your cooperation. I'm ordering a two-minute break. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members, who wish to leave the Chamber for an urgent public task, to do so now and as soon as possible. If anyone stays, please take their place, we will continue our work. Dear Parliament, Post-meeting speeches will follow. Dear Parliament, Did Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the MSZP Group, apply for a post-meeting speech? It's an address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. [[10.50]]
u2019-12-03-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm not talking about health care by surprise. I'm talking about MÁV. A few months ago, when I asked about the MÁV, Secretary of State János Fónagy gave me the funny answer that it may not be that the MÁV has problems, but that I am getting on the train and those trains are late. Then we came to a good conclusion, but yesterday we saw that there was a much more chaotic state at the MÁV, since it fell five centimeters of snow than we could expect in the 21st century. In the first century Hungary. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: What about the capital?]] In order to reassure the secretary of state and the representatives inside, I have come to Budapest on Sunday, suspiciously, in order not to have a problem with the MÁV on Monday, for which I am to blame, because I got on a train on Monday morning. But it's more serious than that. Yesterday we saw that public transport was paralyzed, MÁV was paralyzed in Hungary. There was a flight that was 180 minutes late, although it was only two hours long. But there were times when the train did not arrive at the Western Railway Station, but stopped in Zuglo, and passengers had to walk up to ten kilometers to get in at all. But yesterday, in the chaos, we missed a news report. The 6 hours 58 train from Vác to Budapest stopped in Csomad because the train driver's 12-hour shift had expired, got out of the train and waited for the next train driver to be able to start at all. But this was not the only flight yesterday, but the 6 hours 26-minute train, which was also on its way to Budapest, also stopped in Csomad, because the driver's working time was over and they waited for the next driver. When we talk about the 21st century, In the 20th century, in 2019, how the MÁV should operate in public transport, they do not really fit. We woke up yesterday morning, the first snow fell on December 2, and the whole railroad was paralyzed. The whole train ride is paralyzed. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: And Budapest!]] The whole country is paralyzed, not only Budapest, but the whole country is paralyzed. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Is Budapest paralyzed? Was everything okay in Budapest?]] Yesterday, I asked Minister Palkovics at the hearing of the Committee on Economic Affairs how such a situation could happen at the MÁV. I did not mention how dirty the flights were, how much they could not be adapted to the schedule, but I asked him how the new timetable could take effect from 15 December, and one of the most important points of the change of timetable is that the intercity train from Budapest to Szeged will have 19 minutes shorter running time. You could say that's totally fine, because there's got to be some improvements like this, but it's always in the details. The shortcut is about the fact that this IC train no longer stops at Nagykőrös, Kecskemét and Kiskunfélegyháza, making it difficult or impossible for thousands of people to go to work or school. I think that if we are talking about improvements, we should not shorten the journey time by missing such important stops, but by making improvements. Minister Palkovic said that this agenda will live for six months, that for six months they will look at what will happen, and if passengers are right who have already started a petition, which has already been signed by more than 3,000 people, then we will return to the original agenda. True, the Minister also acknowledged that they would launch a fast train, only this fast train will not go to the West anymore, but to Kőbánya-Kispest. We know very well that there is a subway renovation in Kőbány now, so it takes almost an hour from Kőbány with the subway bus and then metro to get into downtown. So, again, they're punishing the passengers. I think it's really, really wrong. By the way, I would add that we should take an example of the Japanese: if the MÁV has such chaos, then the minister must resign. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-12-03-32	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Zsolt Becsó, Fidesz Group, spoke with the title of the possibilities of East Nógrád. I give you the floor.
u2019-12-03-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, After the municipal elections, all conditions are now in place, and in some places it is even necessary to reposition many regions in the partly changed political space, in the face of new economic challenges, in a particular competitive situation. These include East Nógrád. The Salgótarján-based East Nógrád was a major loser of the change of regime, as the collapse, elimination and degradation of coal mining and heavy industry brought significant unemployment and economic crisis to the region. Following the change of regime, there was no government that did not try to help in any way, to start catching up the region, but a real breakthrough could not be achieved by 2010 despite the best intentions. After the change of government in 2010, however, we have been given the chance to finally take the shape of our fate into our own hands after many years of localisation, and, with the great attention and support of the government, we will begin construction, the conscious development of East Nógrád. The past nine years have not been easy, there has not been a triumph, there have been countless pitfalls to overcome, but it is undisputed that we have made great progress. Nine years ago, there was no indicator in which Nógrád was not among the last, whether it was unemployment, employment, economic performance or average earnings. Seeing this, we have set ourselves three main goals: to strengthen the economy, to place Nógrád on Hungary's development map, including East Nógrád, and to strengthen local identity. Thanks to cooperation, government support and, in many cases, tangible cooperation, we have today made a number of improvements that have made our region more homey, more comfortable, more Nógrád-conscious and more successful in the area of economic development. During these nine years there were difficulties, because we were hit by the abolition of the college, emigration, social tension in several settlements, or the sense of unhappiness in the county seat supported by research, but there were also free entrepreneurship zones, renewed Hollókő and our national shrine, Szentkút, the Nógrád-Novohrad Geopark was filled with exciting content, and numerous local development projects were implemented in Bátonyterénye or Pásztón, with special government support, economic development projects were launched, and the programme was launched in Salgótarján. But most importantly, the key, the non plus ultra for the development of the region was the end of the four-banding of Route 21. It is true that we lost nearly ten years by not getting the attention from the governments of 2002 at the time, the construction of the road stopped, but in 2011 we managed to remove the investment from the deadlock, so if it was delayed, but by 2019 the 52 kilometer section was built for the pleasure of all of us. This is the way to turn East Nógrád into the country's economic circulation, which creates the possibility of truly repositioning our region and opening a new chapter for development. The development of transport infrastructure was the basis for us to think at all about the development of our region in a larger dimension. We have five tasks ahead of us that need to be the most important priority for the East-Nograd region in the future. Firstly, the social and economic development cooperation of Bátonyterenye and the city of Pásztó and their regions, as well as cross-border relations, must be put on a new footing. Steps must be taken to replace the so-called holed county by repositioning Salgótarján and its region. In addition to the "Modern town" and the "Hungarian village" program, the program "Modern Hungarian small town" must be launched. Economic development is a top priority, but we also need concrete steps in the area of social inclusion and training and the development of higher education. Finally, the geopark, the world heritage, the national shrine and the north-west part of Mátra need to be organised and developed in a sustainable way. I am sure that we will be able to make a number of our dreams come true through cooperation, cooperation, a little luck and further substantial support from the government within the region. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[11.00]]
u2019-12-03-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Gergely Tapolczai, from the Fidesz Group, spoke with the title "World Day for People with Disabilities." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-12-03-35	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In 1992, the UN declared 3 December the World Day for Persons with Disabilities, thus raising awareness of the situation and problems of our fellow people. The Hungarian Parliament adopted the Law on the Rights and Equal Opportunities of Persons with Disabilities in 1998 and ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in 2007. There has been a lot of progress in the area of disability since 1998. I'm just gonna go through the last nine to ten years, and due to the shortness of time, I'd like to highlight just a few elements. In 2010, 8 advocacy organisations of people with disabilities received 522 million forints, and in 2019 13 advocacy organisations and civil society organisations received 1.114 billion forints. In 2012, we introduced car shopping aid, since 2012 we supported the purchase of 3 thousand new 2 thousand used vehicles and 500 vehicles with HUF 3.8 billion. Three new centers have been created and renewed in connection with preparing for the blind's own life. The government spent HUF 1 billion on the Blind State Institute, HUF 1.3 billion on the Tata Centre and HUF 2.2 billion on the Agárd Rehabilitation Centre. Very important progress has also been made in the area of ICT accessibility. Forints 4 billion help this goal, supporting various organisations. The organisations themselves have created applications and apps to help people with disabilities live independently. For example, the Contact app for hearing impaired people, a video interpretation application, blind or visually impaired people, helps the lives of people with mental disabilities, for example, Data, or Verbalio Aphazia helps people who are speechless, and help people with wheelchairs and other mobility injuries to live their lives without the so-called "Limits." All of this was made out of HUF 4 billion. For people with intellectual disabilities, their independent lives are supported by centres that have been implemented at county level, and a lot of measures have been taken, for example, in relation to employment of persons with disabilities, and the amount spent has also increased greatly. In 2015, we adopted the National Disability Programme for ten years in advance. We still have a lot of work to do, a task for the next five years, and not least in the spring of 2020 the European Commission will be listening to the country's report on the implementation of the UN Convention. Finally, I would like to congratulate our Polish friends, because in 2010 the European Commission and the European Disability Forum set up the so-called Access City Award, the "Access City" award, which is awarded every year to a city that makes the most of accessibility, or is clearly transforming urban transport or infrastructure in a sustainable way. Such cities are rewarded, and Warsaw received this award this year. We congratulate them on this. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-12-03-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Zsolt Nyitrai, from the Fidesz Group, applied for a speech entitled "Active affairs." Congressman, you have the floor.
u2019-12-03-37	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the word and opportunity. I asked for the floor and opportunity on a matter of great importance for the Eger and its region, citizens from Eger and the neighbourhood. I am pleased to report that by this time next year, Eger's dream of several decades has been fulfilled, namely the M25 road, will connect Eger to the highway. The Eger-Budapest distance is thus shortened, the road becomes safer, faster, the citizens can use it from next summer. More tourists, more businesses will arrive in the region, giving more revenue to families and businesses in Eger and in the area. With the direct highway connection, we can show more people what we are proud of, our historical, church memories, the Eger wine region and our healing waters. This path, which has been promised by all governments so far, my honourable fellow Members, is being implemented by the current government; we have promised to do it. The construction is going well, at a high professional level, with deadlines. We're halfway through the job now, and that's it again, and we're gonna hit the target. On behalf of the citizens of Eger and the region, let me thank you here, in front of the public of the Hungarian Parliament, for the progress of the M25 route to the Government of Hungary, the contractor, the experts working on the construction site, and the workers. I wish the rest of the work to be done in good quality and on time. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-03-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, from the KDNP Group, also applied for a post-meeting speech. The title of the 100th anniversary of the birth of Pope John Paul. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-12-03-39	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, 2020 will be an important year in many respects, and we will remember important things. Next year will be the year of national integration, as it is important to strengthen the sense of belonging throughout the Hungarian nation on the anniversary of the national tragedy and not to celebrate with neighbouring nations, as some opposition representatives here would like. The Zriny Memorial Year will also be held next year. I would like to draw attention to an important anniversary. In 2020, the Church of the World and I dare hope that within the framework of the Church, much beyond one of the greatest figures in history, Saint II. We remember Pope John Paul on the 15th anniversary of his birth and death. Holy II. Pope John Paul was born in Poland in 1920, the first head of the church in Central Europe, a great influence, the traveling pope, the pope of young people, who did a great deal for peace and always raised his voice for Europe, worrying about Christian values. The great pope, the pope of youth, lives alive in the memory and heart of believers and unbelievers. However, just the youngest generation, the young generation seeking its way, does not retain the personal memory of the pope. In the new millennium, they saw him as a ruler of the church's ship, and he was an emblematic figure in the overthrow of communism. This is what we want to make alive for them, and we want to send a message in view of the development of today's European situation. Earlier in 2011, a young Christian community of friends had already had a great dream, and during the Hungarian and Polish EU presidencies, it announced a series of programs to deepen the friendship of the two peoples for a thousand years, to awaken them, with a special focus on young people. In the framework of a drawing and literary application, more than ten thousand works and 6500 typed pages arrived from here and beyond. At the same time, the international conference also compiled a replacement material for the Polish-Hungarian joint saints, which was published in the form of a volume. The first Pilgrim Train also rolled out of the Western Railway Station in this series of events, and we are proud that on June 30, 2011 the Black Madonna was a certified copy of the image, which has since become the wedge of the Basilica. [[11.10]] Since then, our community has not been idle, it organises many programmes to keep Polish and Hungarian young people in line with the strong line of friendship for a thousand years and to keep Christianity credible in Europe. Europe's Christian roots are dying out, society has become impaired, and we are seeing life, family, relativeisation of men and women with unprecedented forces, and we believe that further programmes, further awareness-raising actions are needed. That is why we consider it important that this series of reprogrammes for the death of the Holy Pope next year For the 100th anniversary of St. Let Pope John Paul be a role model for young people. So next year, for this 100-year anniversary, the Foundation for Youth in Eastern Europe, under the leadership of Father Bese Gergő, and the Christian Democratic Association of Youth, will announce a series of programmes for which we look forward to everyone's support and accession. Our plans include drawing competitions, literary competitions, names of public spaces, memorials, conferences, pilgrimages, camps, festivals, and a cycling tour to Poland. Putting young people first, thinking of the great Pope, cherishing his memory in a live way, worrying about Europe and strengthening Polish-Hungarian friendship, we will organise the series of programmes in 2020, to which we look forward to supporting everyone and their accession. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-03-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Member of the LMP Group, spoke on an important national issue. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-12-03-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Indeed, we are talking about an important national issue, an important national task, an opportunity for all of us, wherever we live, either in the motherland, in the Carpathian Basin or anywhere else in Europe, to act in the interests of Hungarians across borders. Perhaps you have heard, my fellow Members, that this spring the Szekler National Council has succeeded in its many years of work, in fact six years, after which the European Commission has given the green light to the European Citizens' Initiative on the development of national regions. This initiative was presented six years ago by the Székely National Council, the essence of which is that the development policy of the European Union should pay particular attention to regions where national minorities are the dominant majority, and unfortunately, it is an experience in Szeklerland, and this is particularly true, that unfortunately these funds are withdrawn at the level of the mother country and used in such a way that they do not get adequate access to these regions. So this is an extremely important goal. And, let's say, the aim of this initiative is to provide development resources in this way, development resources that go hand in hand with this region, so that this region and other regions with similar characteristics in Europe can preserve their national specificities and national identities. We find it very instructive that the European Commission did not at first give us the opportunity to start this work, and I therefore congratulate the Szekler National Council on its many years of persistent work that it has finally achieved this joint success. We know what the order of business of a European citizens' initiative is, what the logic is: one million signatures must be collected in one year in seven EU Member States. So this is an extremely important task. And you should also know that this initiative has already started in June this year, so until May next year, so until May 2020, there is time to collect this one million signatures. I don't think it's necessary to stress that this is a huge task for everyone. I think that in this Parliament, too, it should be said that all public figures, organisations and political parties must stand united and that we must play our part in this work in a uniform manner, in accordance with our own options. However, we also consider it extremely important that all political organisations, whether pro-government or opposition organisations, which have international relations, use these international channels, use these international forums, to draw attention to the fact that, indeed, this signing initiative must be successfully completed in several countries of Europe. The website of this initiative is available, Nemzetiregiok.eu, here all detailed information will be provided to those who want to support this extremely important issue. This is a very important issue of national policy, I think that it cannot be emphasized enough between the walls of the Parliament that we all need to put aside the party policy approach in these matters, in national matters, on issues affecting the Hungarian nation. Unfortunately, there are examples that are counterproductive. But we must also say that this initiative also concerns very important European Union values, because the protection of the rights of national minorities and the representation of their interests are very important European Union values. On the one hand, it is sad that we still need to talk about this in Europe, and we have seen developments in Transylvania affecting Hungarians across the border, that unfortunately, the European political elite is not sufficiently active on this issue, and when there is unacceptable communication or a particularly threatening attitude, politicians belonging to the political elite of the European Union are not speaking with sufficient efficiency or power. That is why it is important to communicate with one another on these issues and, if possible, to achieve a very, very broad consensus at EU level. I stress that this initiative does not fall specifically within the competence of the Hungarian Parliament, but I thought it was important to speak in order to talk about it here. I believe that the issue of national politics is, by the way, an unworthy little being mentioned between the walls of the Parliament, and every time such a question comes before us, I stress that we ourselves, the May Other, consider this to be a national matter, and we believe that a serious mistake is made by those who approach this question by trying to make it the subject of political gain. Unfortunately, we have seen examples of this on all sides, but not so long ago, in the case of an election of a opposition party across the border, he did not support the Hungarian candidate, but the candidate to be supported on an ideological basis appropriate to the family of the European party. We regard this as a very serious, faulty step, and this is in any event causing serious damage to the representation of Hungarian national interests. I believe that this must also be said, but it must also be said that there is always a high responsibility for the parties to government to be open on this issue and to accept that national commitment from opposition representatives, opposition parties, also inspires us to do so. That is the attitude I am asking of you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-03-42	Thank you, honourable Member. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group has applied for a post-meeting speech. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-12-03-43	Mr President, Dear House, The House has passed an outrageous decision, since the representatives of the Fidesz-KDNP voted against my proposal to extend the eviction moratorium and our proposal. And we also see that the amazing cynicism and intense insensitiveness that flows from government representatives is still simply shocking after all these years. I would like to say that yesterday we also had a brief debate on this issue, the issue of eviction moratorium, and here our fellow Member from KDNP argued that the eviction moratorium is being announced at the moment, so he believes that no real estate evacuations are taking place in Hungary. On the other hand, only in the last week did our direct colleagues receive a summons for two similar events. Obviously, we cannot play any part in such events, but we try to bring illegal acts back into the legal system, under control. I have invited my fellow Member from KDNP to attend such an event, at least to see for himself what these unfortunate people are going through. The fact is that while the moratorium is being proclaimed, families lose their homes, put them on the streets, and while the executive teams, without any obstacles, are placing small pensions, minimum wage and very low earnings and incomes with 33 percent and 50 percent bans, they make it even more difficult for our countrymen whose situation is almost impossible to re-establish. On these matters, the eviction moratorium was announced on 15 November, and we receive further messages. I'd like to quote one of them. On November 13, the family had to leave their beloved home, the house where they grew up and their children grew up. In 2004, 7 million forints were recorded on paper, it was a foreign currency loan, with a monthly payment of 34 thousand forints. This went up to 114 thousand forints in a year or two. And even so, as long as they could, they paid for this burden. When they didn't know, they didn't stop paying, but paid a part of the repayment that was still very difficult to manage from the family budget. Finally, in mid-2017 a kind gentleman rang the doorbell to the family, as, using the new techniques of executives, they don't necessarily arrive with a division, but the kind gentleman introduced himself, the new owner of the family's property, the parent's house, a home held in a generation-wide way. [[11.20]] He said that in practically a week the family would have to move, and it would be good to do so by 13, since the eviction moratorium will be announced on the 15th. So it can also be seen that they are artificially speeding up their activities, both by the executives and by the quote-signed new owners who even purchase a property at a printed price, and then, in quotes, of course, but they are involved in the Calvary of families, because this is how the family has to resolve this situation. So the family had two days to move away. I would like to emphasise once again that we are talking about families with more children. So, while looking for a sublet, where they mention that they live with more children, they often bump into walls or conditions that they cannot fulfil. Of course, when the eviction day came, they hadn't finished everything yet, they had packed their belongings and asked permission to return for the objects remaining there. This was also not welcomed by the new owner's interests, as they feared that the eviction moratorium would be in place if the family would stay only partially in respect of their belongings, if necessary, so as not to remain permanently. Such amazing situations therefore arise in Hungary. The fact is that after this family was expelled from his home and told that he owned a house across the generations, the parents' house could no longer be theirs, the bank demanded an additional HUF 13 million. These are the situations where party positions disappear, and where, I think, we are talking about moral issues. Such a set of conditions cannot be justified. There is no legal argument, no economic argument, no government argument that would make it acceptable to reduce families in this way, so we continue to demand the government to declare the moratorium on eviction and to maintain it together until this problem is resolved. I promise you, you'll hear a lot more about us on these issues. We keep the powder dry, and we don't leave any family on the side of the road, because unfortunately, this government has left a lot of people. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2019-12-03-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Speaking after the agenda, Mr László György Lukács, Jobbik Group asked for these gifts to be placed in the boots of the Nagykunság with the title Santa Claus. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-12-03-45	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Before Christmas we have another popular holiday or popular event, this is the arrival of Santa Claus. In political terms, although Santa can do little to help, it is still important to review the wish list with which to help my narrower country, the Greater Community. These are so-called virtual gifts that you need from Santa Claus to your own boots for the Grand Cunecy, and these gifts that I will list, or those wishes that are on the list, I have compiled that may answer in ascending order the most important and narrowest resources and their absence. Karcag is in an exceptionally good position as the capital of the Grand Kunsa, and thus the Grand Kunsa as well, since there are three members of Karcag in Parliament, and there are also six representatives of Karcag, a great community, so we might think that the affairs of the Grand Kunsa deserve special attention and priority, but we often see that they do not. One of these missing elements, and what would be first on the list, lies in the accessibility of the Great Community. The Great Community is quite difficult to approach. The very, very long-awaited development of road 4, the M4 motorway, and later it did not reach the area. Basically, this development, when it is completed by 2022, will stop right at the border of the Great Kunsa, at the edge of the Gun, so the heart of the Great Kunsa will not be reached at all. There is no need to explain how important it would be to connect the region quickly and effectively with the capital city. But if we look at Route 4, there's another very serious problem, that's the question of intersections. This seems to be a rather banal question, but if you look at two of the very critical points on Route 4, one of the Weapons, and the other on Karcag, which is the crossroads of death, there are dozens of very serious accidents on an annual basis, and unfortunately every year there are fatalities in these level crossings. If something could be wished to the Grand Cunity, it would be possible to make these intersections safe as soon as possible. But there are other parts of the road that are lagging behind. The road between the Túrkeve-Kinjsújszállás is slowly moving towards the untraceable, which is important because the outer periphery of the Great Kunság is essentially connected by these roads. If there is no road, there is no infrastructure to attract investment or employment taxes, then essentially these settlements are removed from the map and disappear from the eyes of workers and employers. The second big package is the development of health care. The hospital in Karcag is responsible for the health care of 110,000 people. The hospital has continuously lost and lost its supply package, so the most important thing would be to prevent the number of active care being reduced or even the hospital developing, not only the departments at the hospital's central facilities, but also to develop the facilities in other settlements, where appropriate, even in Kunhegyes and good health care development, and to manage those clinics from Túrkev, or those clinics from Kunhegyes, Abádszalók, or Tiszafüred, so that they can form a very good unit with the Karcag hospital, and not always have to use health care outside of regional facilities such as Eger or Debrecen. But they could be surprise gifts. Surprise gifts are jobs, job development that help keep one of the most difficult areas in the country. Unfortunately, the statistics with the fifth worst domestic migration can be presented by Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County, and within this area. The Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok county data can be produced by the Nagykunság and East Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok county by far. For this reason, it is very important that the annual difference of one thousand people in the region should not suffer, especially workers and people of working age should not migrate to Western Hungary or abroad. What's important to us is that everyone born in the Grand Community can get along. And it would be a very important extra gift for incomplete roads if roads could be improved to improve public transport. Unfortunately, in public transport, although railway line 100 passes through the edge of the Nagykunság as a percussion, we can count both the ever shrinking Volánbuses and the only railway sidelines still in operation, which actually helps public transport. These should be developed so that public transport from Tiszafüred to Karcagra or Abadszalók to Karcagra or from Karcag to Tourkeve, where appropriate. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This is what we wish Santa Claus to place in 2019 as a virtual or actual gift. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-12-03-46	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Farkas, Jobbik Group, also spoke after the agenda on the situation of domestic e-sports and the task of the government. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-12-03-47	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Two and a half years ago, a small political historical event took place between the walls of this House, because for the first time the expression "e-sports" was spoken in the Hungarian Parliament. And not only was it an expression, but in several speeches I have tried to urge the government to do as much for e-sports as possible, be part of this public speech, and start a comprehensive settlement, development of this area at government level and with government assistance. Small successes occurred, for example, the parties with the parliamentary faction were asked, one of their representatives spoke to a competent organisation on this subject, and it was a round table discussion, and perhaps because of this, the government took a step, a big one, but only as a one-time help, supported a Future Sports Festival for the Visegrad Four with nearly HUF 2 billion. Then a lot of people were happy that it would seem that the government would sense the words of time and take action in this area. Tamás Deutsch also said very loudly that we would place Hungary on the map of e-sports worldwide, but then, contrary to the expectations of many, no further steps could be taken. For example, this year the same festival was supported by only a fraction by the government. Of course, small successes were due to the creation of departments, e-sport classes in Miskolc, Debrecen at the university, or even the MTK has created such departments, Budapest Honvéd, Fradi, Újpest has created such divisions, and a national international championship has started in the field of e-sports as well. So there have been small advances, but if you look at where this area is at world level, you have to say that we are light-years behind. [[11.30]] I would like to give you some examples. So, for example, in South Korea, which is one of the home countries of the Esports, it has long been seen as a national sport. Its popularity surpasses traditional sports, and for almost two decades it has been a state-supported form of activity, and virtually half of society plays or watches the sport in some form. In Denmark, for example, the Minister of Culture announced the establishment of an Esports Committee to provide the best possible information on the everyday life of this sport form with society there. Well, we're a little far from it. Imagine when Miklós Kásler will make such a statement, perhaps we can wait a few more years. In America, there has long been a sports visa for excellent athletes, or they are being supported by scholarships, and China could be said to create a separate town of sports with a huge grant of HUF 42 billion. So compared to these, it is safe to say that we are light years away from other countries, and compared to how fast this area is developing, 450 million people are playing or watching these sports at global level. In Hungary, when I spoke for the first time, it could still be estimated that about 250 thousand people, mostly young people, are affected, and now half a million is the right number. This also shows how fast this area is developing. So I would also like to urge the Government, in my speech at this time, to address this area in depth, at a strategic level. Two years ago, I said that it should be a part of the public talk. There would be plenty to do, too, because many do not even know what it is, and there are different stereotypes in people's minds, especially negative stereotypes. So it would be very important to disperse them. At the same time, it would be important, to be honest, to say that, of course, this area may also have disadvantages, an addiction, to be dealt with and prevented. The government should support as many grassroots initiatives as possible, even by setting up an Esports Committee for Danish example, in order to discuss with stakeholders at decision-making level how they can still provide support; but I could also say, for example, that there is a separate Esports Act in France and Norway on the status of competitors and teams or on the criteria for competition organisation. However, the question of regulators has not yet been fully clarified in many countries, but here is the example of France and Germany. It is possible to talk about the importance of talent management, what steps should be taken in this regard, and there is still plenty to describe what kind of tasks a government could have at decision-making level. So, at the end of my speech, I would like to call once again on the competent representatives of the government to take the lead in taking care of this area, to help them and to do so in many ways. Jobbik wants to continue to be a partner in this, and we will give you all the help you need. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-03-48	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Magyar, Member of the Jobbik Group, also applied for a post-meeting address with the title of the challenges of the Hungarian agriculture. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-12-03-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, There is a huge problem, and domestic and European beekeepers give up this profession in bulk. In connection with the fact that I felt that I had to speak again here in the House's walls on this issue, it was that the disappearance of wild pollinators made the situation even worse, in terms of the extent to which this problem still affects society outside the beekeeper's families. But we could talk about the loss of biodiversity or the risk of national security resulting from the lack of effective pollination of our food. Otherwise, at global level, we consume one third of the production of honey in the European Union, which means 550 thousand tonnes per year, and we can produce about half of it in the European Union, and the other part comes from the direction of a third country. This is typically China, Ukraine, Argentina and Mexico, which accounts for more than 80% of the honey imported into Europe. And they're bringing more and more into this market. When I talk about the problem of beekeeper families, Hungarian honey, I mention so much about Europe, because we must not forget to think together in the framework of a common agricultural policy, we must work together, even because the conditions in which these economies operate are uniform. By the way, when I say that beekeepers are in a huge problem, it means that the purchase price of honey in Hungary has decreased by 20 percent in the last year alone, but if I project it for ten years, we are talking about a 60% decrease. It's quite simple to say that you can't make a living like this. Thank God there is indeed a strict food safety system within the European Union, but unfortunately the competition that appears in this market does not have to comply with this strict food safety regime. Taking just one example, China, for example, does not prohibit the addition of substances to honey or the extraction of materials. The so-called resin-filtered honey from China makes the given honey virtually unidentifiable, which, let's face it, is a serious problem for counterfeiters, a real gold mine. Not to mention that even residues of honey that may pose a serious risk to our health cannot be detected. But, as I have already said, this honey can still enter the European market and therefore compete in a completely unfair way with bee-keeping products that comply with much stricter conditions. The reason for this is obviously that we have typically sacrificed European agriculture on the altar of the German automotive industry, and we have concluded trade agreements with most of the world, which provide for fewer customs, as few legislative differences as possible between the markets, and unfortunately for the Hungarian and European regions and producers. Otherwise, about two thirds of the honey produced by domestic beekeepers is sold abroad. Unfortunately, Hungarian honey appears mainly as improving honey in other honeys, so the imported honey, often from China or other countries, is repaired, mixed, and thus appears very often on the markets as European honey. We're gonna take a third of it back home. By the way, this decline in buying-in prices seems to have received some 2.4 euros for a Hungarian beekeeper ten years ago for a kilo of flower honey, now it is only 1.7 euros. This situation is not helped either by the fact that the government, perhaps seeing the cry for help, has promised some steps, i.e. next year the current 500 HUF bee family support will rise to 1000 HUF, and some European trademark system is also developing. Unfortunately, subsidies are still after-financing, which is an old demand for beekeepers. They would like these changes to be made, and they will no longer receive any aid in this form in the next EU cycle; and we still have a lot to do in the marketing field. With this speech, I would also like to draw attention to the sector's problems and urge my fellow members of the Government to do something very quickly. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-03-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, István Apáti, an independent Member, also applied for a post-meeting address with the title of the problems of Hungarian farmers. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2019-12-03-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Hungarian Movement, I would like to draw everyone's attention to some of the problems that affect a significant part of the Hungarian economy and are getting worse without the need for completeness. I would like to mention market acquisition, marketing of our products and buying-in prices in the first place, but the labour shortage is just as serious as the problem of dealing with cases of force majeure, the problems with the compensation fund. [[11.40]] Unfortunately, leading problems, such as tax reclaims, delays in landscaping and delays and maladministration in the payment of various EU funds, are among the main problems. Given the scarcity of the time frame, I will now go through these problems on an overview basis, and in the near future I will try to process and present them in more detail, separately. What is the issue of buying-in prices, and if we think only of the fruit sector, this is closer to me through our family economy, we can say that we are closing a relatively successful year, but this is due to the fact that Polish and Western European competitors have suffered frost damage and force majeure damage that helped Hungarian fruits, at least some of the Hungarian fruits, to reach the market and negotiate a slightly higher purchase price. But basically, this Russian roulette-like exposure to the environment, climate and weather factors turns to our advantage one year and to our disadvantage the next year. Here the famous, well-known Hungarian-Polish friendship may seem to suffer some damage, as on the fruit front our Polish friends are our biggest competitors, and the favourable restructuring there, or their market access opportunities, or their opportunities to sell to the East using Belarusian routes, and much higher subsidies are a major advantage for Polish farmers, which is why they are able to sell Polish fruits at much more competitive prices even on the Hungarian market. Then there is the issue of labour shortages, which is completely absurd and consciously present in the northern and northeastern counties at the same time as unemployment, and it is true that the situation is improving in the settlements where public work is properly organised, but where the transition between public work and agricultural seasonal work and seasonal work is ensured by local public workers, local authorities are not able to provide it with sufficient strength, and there is a growing problem in the hand-job-intensive sectors, the fruit and vegetable sector. Here, the mechanization, let's say, is much smaller than in field crops due to the nature of production. Then, a minute or two ago, I referred to the problem of the Compensation Fund. During spring frost damage, storms, and ice damage, this nightmare is mainly recurring during the period from May to September, because, despite the amount of about HUF 20 billion in the Compensation Fund, this fund, as it stands, cannot fulfil the effect or purpose corresponding to its name or function, because it can only be called a compensation fund; because due to the calculation method, the calculation formula, we see that in the case of crop losses of millions or tens of millions, the farmer can expect compensation of up to a few hundred thousand. The issue of tax returns is perhaps the slightest problem. I would point out here that in May of the year following the reference year, the rules on the application for excise duty and the application for excise duty on gas oil may need to be improved in terms of time; as landscaping is delayed, they keep promising. Indeed, various proposals have been made to this end several times. The Hungarian Movement is very confident that it will be brought before this House in February, and we will be able to accept it in March at the latest, and we will be able to eliminate the problem of undivided common property as soon as possible, which, according to the Hungarian Movement, is one of the most serious obstacles to the development of a healthy structure and agricultural blood circulation. Last but not least, I would like to draw attention to maladministration in tenders, to the problems of tendering payments. Right here is a fruit planting title where a large number of applications were awarded in addition to the same historical facts, and now they refuse to apply for the same facts, saving billions of forints to Brussels in a completely pointless, self-destructive way. This could be improved with good intentions and proper interpretation of the law; as I would also like to point out that it is nonsense that there are time limits for a year and a half or two and a half, and that is at least the delay in payment deadlines. This is a direct route to the destruction of farmers, and these deadlines should therefore be substantially shortened. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-03-52	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Member Dóra Dúró, an independent Member, also came forward after the agenda, with the title 'Education for all's overburden. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-12-03-53	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The activities of this government are accompanied by a series of educational demonstrations, and this is not a coincidence. In fact, the result and primary reason for the problems inherent in education is that the government simply does not trust teachers. Yet, we are talking about the people who wake up in the morning to deal with our children from 8:00 a.m., to straighten their way, and they are the ones who spend more time with our children than our parents. So there is no other solution but to trust them and to show our appreciation and help in their direction; this is essential both for politics and for parents. It doesn't matter what their well-being is, what their mental state is, what their vision is, how a teacher stands before children, what an example he sets for them, and how they should deal with 20-25-30 children every day, as efficiently and with greater peace and love as possible. They are those who, after caring for our children, do not abandon the lute, but do manage, organize excursions, choose from theatre programs, hold parental meetings, attend further trainings, and suffer from the KRÉTA system, because the IT system imposed by the government on schools is so amazing that it is practically a disaster. It is therefore essential for the government to fulfill its earlier promise and to attach the salary of teachers to the minimum wage in order to have a predictable vision and thus to ensure its value-proofness. But we need to remind you that in 2013, when the teacher career model was introduced, this was promised by the government, and then when the time had come to pay the teachers on this basis, and in fact the financial implications would have been, this measure was quickly withdrawn, and in the last six years, despite all economic success prognosis, they could not introduce or bring back the pay of teachers with the minimum wage. This overload is not only typical of teachers, but also of children. For all reasonable people, it is quite clear that a reduction in the number of hours is essential, and it will not be tolerated any longer. Moreover, because of the lack of teachers and the lack of workers directly assisting in pedagogical work, teachers often have to do jobs that would not be their job if there were a sufficient number of workers. The curriculum must also be reduced, because it is quite amazing how much the children are overloaded, and this is true for every class of every grade. In addition, many times, not only do we have a lot of teaching material, but we simply do not teach them the knowledge that they will need at any time in life, in a way that is appropriate to their age. It is therefore important that we develop education in a more lifelike way and pass on knowledge to them according to the age of the children. The operation of the KRÉTA system is also scandalous; it is similar to the transformation of the textbook market by forcing an IT system to schools that is in many respects worse than the systems developed by competitors before, it is impossible for teachers to use such basic things as sending a message to parents. So there are a lot of problems in education, and if I have already mentioned textbooks, then I have to say that the appearance of free textbooks is only real in Hungary, because there are quality textbooks that are either not on the textbook list, so they cannot be ordered for free, or even if they are on the textbook list, they cannot fit into the envelope that the government has set for each grade, for each class. So, yes, the possibility of giving free textbooks to children should be extended, because we do not want to whip this measure, of course, because the burden of materialism should be reduced for parents, families and the resulting differences, but teaching teachers from quality textbooks would be essential. [[11.50]] So according to the Hungarian Movement, the same mistakes that the government has made when creating the law on national public education are being held back in a stubborn way, although it is clear to all reasonable people that changes are necessary. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. István Apáti applauds.]]
u2019-12-03-54	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the autumn session is expected to take place on 9 December 2019. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed.
