u2019-03-25-0	[[The representatives of the LMP will place a red plastic bag containing a leaflet, with the words "Paper payment notice" on the table of the pro-government representatives.]] Dear Parliament, The 11th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and Gergely Arató will be in charge of the meeting to assist me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, I declare that Congresswoman Hegedűs Lorántné informed the President of the Parliament that she had resigned on 21 March 2019. I declare that the number of Members of Parliament is currently 198. Dear Parliament, Today we start our work with speeches before the agenda. The questions will then take place from approximately 12:30 to 14:00, and then from 14:00 to 15:00, the instant questions and answers will be answered. We finish the meeting of the Parliament with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government today, Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, has applied for a speech on behalf of the Government on the subject of making the global migration package legally binding. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2019-03-25-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Today I asked to inform you that secret plans are being made in Brussels with a view to making the UN Global Migration Package rejected by Hungary in New York last December legally binding. This is a very serious issue because the Global Migration Package is the most dangerous document on migration in recent years. The most dangerous is that this document has set the goal of legalising illegal migration globally. This document identifies migration as a fundamental human right, which is obviously not true. International law does not know the fundamental human right to wake up in the morning, to stick to the map of where you want to live and then to get there, to violate dozens of countries' borders. Moreover, the Global Migration Package says that, by definition, all countries in the world must either become countries of origin or transit or destination in relation to migration and completely ignore the rights of those countries who do not wish to choose one of these three. We recall that during the debate on the Global Migration Package, we were tried to be anesthetized by the fact that this is a non-binding document, but the document prepared by the European Commission's legal service has been published in recent weeks, which has brought down the ambitions of Brussels and made it clear that serious work is being done in Brussels in order to find the legal basis for making the global migration package mandatory. This legal document contains the following references. Only the adoption of the document on the Global Migration Package by the UN General Assembly has created the legal impact of the global package on the legal order of the European Union. Then it is said that the adoption of the global migration package has legal implications for the European Union's development policy, i.e. that the global migration package should be used to determine what developments the European Union is making from European taxpayers' money around the world. Then, in this undisclosed document, the European Commission's Legal Service states that the global migration package has legal implications, thus enabling or enabling the package to make a decisive impact on the content of the European Union's legislation. It is also written in this document that the Member States of the European Union should contribute to achieving the objectives of the European Union, including the implementation of the Global Migration Package. Ladies and Gentlemen, This shows, therefore, that after the European Union threatened that those who voted 'no' to the global migration package would be subject to all kinds of procedures, and then, of course, nine of us did not vote for this document from among the EU countries, then they wanted to put us to sleep by saying that it would not be legally binding, so it is completely unnecessary to go against it. Now we have moved to the stage of making secret plans in Brussels, when they are preparing to find, somehow, a legal interpretation by some hair that can make the implementation of the global migration package mandatory even for those countries, such as Hungary, which, together with five other countries, voted against the global migration package. Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, This means that the debate on migration in Brussels is far from over, and a new battle is about to begin in Brussels against the creation of secret pro-immigration plans. However, I would like to assure you that Hungary's Government will also fight this battle, and, despite every pressure and every secret design, the Government of Hungary will not implement any point of the Global Migration Package in Hungary, because it would be extremely dangerous to look at Hungary and Hungarian people. So we are not implementing any of the points of the Global Migration Package and we are not allowing Hungary to become an immigrant country. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-25-2	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Now the factions can respond to the Minister's speech in a two-minute time frame. I give the floor first to Mr Barna Pál Sigismund, Fidesz Group.
u2019-03-25-3	Dear Minister, Mr President, Dear House, Thank you, Minister, for the fight you are fighting on the international stage for the benefit of the Hungarian people. We are living in difficult times, and Brussels is secretly trying to make the most dangerous migration package in the world mandatory. In recent days, one of the biggest lies in Brussels has been revealed, and Brussels' secret plan has been leaked, under which immigrants will be deployed to Hungary. The Commission, behind the back of the people, wants to make the UN's global migration package binding, the package that Hungary, together with eight other EU countries, rejected. This is the package that the pro-immigration forces have previously said is not mandatory, but I would like to make mandatory. The UN Pact on Migration is a failed document that aims to stimulate migration. The person who signed the document is a very serious risk to the heads of his own citizens. The document raised issues in international law that are contrary to the interests of the Hungarian people. The Hungarian Government did not sign the document, and at that time it drew the attention of the public to the dangers of the Pact. The Hungarian government has repeatedly pointed out to the Hungarian people that we have the right to know what Brussels is up to: they want to weaken the border protection rights of the Member States, facilitate immigration with credit cards filled with migrant visas and money, and move development resources to support migration. Unfortunately, the Hungarian opposition is on the side of the pro-immigration elite in Brussels, and on several occasions they have expressed their views that they want to relocate immigrants to Hungary. Dear House, It must be shown to the Brussels people that what the Hungarian people want is happening in Hungary. We refuse to do what Brussels dictates if it is not good for Hungarians. Fidesz will continue to stand up for the Hungarian people and we ask the government to do everything in its power not to install immigrants in Hungary. [[11.10]] We are also asking the Hungarian people to take part in the European Parliament elections on 26 May, and we must show the Brussels people what is happening in Hungary, the Hungarians decide, and not the Brusselsers or Soros organisations. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-25-4	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Márton Gyöngyösi, Head of the Group of Jobbik.
u2019-03-25-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, I see we're on a level here, now we're talking conspiracy theories and secret plans. Migration is indeed an important issue and must be fought, but the bad news is that you are fighting migration only in words and not in action, Minister. I believe that you are doing nothing to protect Hungary from the threat of migration. It's your policy that's dangerous, not what's going on in Brussels. There should be diplomacy in Brussels and discussion on how to protect our own country and our country against a real migration threat against a global challenge. But as long as you talk about it, your Statistical Office will release the data that 86,000 migrants have been deployed in Hungary in recent years with settlement bonds and other ways. Recently, the Austrian immigration agency issued data showing that 15 thousand illegal immigrants crossed the Austrian-Hungarian border in 2016 and 2017, a year after the fence was built, while you were conducting a campaign around that lie [[János Halász intervenes.]] That you protected Hungary from migration. I ask you: if the border lock really protects European civilisation and Hungary, then 15 thousand migrants how the hell does it cross the Hungarian-Austrian border in two years? Dear Minister, I believe that your job as Minister of Foreign Affairs is to defend and strongly support Hungarian national interests in Brussels. This includes that when the European Union is trying to find common solutions to a threat to our civilisation, you are a partner in this; when it comes to the proposal of Frontex; or when the European Union is trying to agree with the African continent on how to keep migrants there. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] not to swim to the European continent. You're irresponsible. [[The president's ringing again.]] , please make diplomacy...
u2019-03-25-6	Congressman, thank you...
u2019-03-25-7	...take it more seriously, and foreign policy as well. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2019-03-25-8	Dear Parliament, I give the floor from the MSZP Group to Mr István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2019-03-25-9	Dear Minister, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Mr President, It is worth drawing attention to some facts in this debate after the opinion of the honourable representative of Fidesz. The European Union, honourable Member, is not our enemy, because our country is a member of the European Union. Therefore, he does not want to protect our country from the European Union; rather, with an active diplomacy, we should better represent Hungarian interests within the European Union! Perhaps you have missed the course, because it is certainly not a proper foreign policy if we consider our ally to be an enemy, and look to the east, we consider the country that is not an ally to be our friend. It is therefore worth drawing attention to in this debate; just as in the 19 December 2018 vote, the United States, Israel, Hungary, Poland and the Czech Republic voted against the proposed decision, which is not legally binding, and even if it were or would have been, even as the United States, a permanent member of the Security Council, could have prevented this from happening with a veto, as he or other permanent Member States could have done. Thirdly, it is worth pointing out that the MSZP does not want to break down the fence as long as the Hungarian people live in fear. It is also worth saying that migratory pressure has been reduced, including at our borders and at sea borders; and that the Treaty between the European Union and Turkey has contributed greatly to this. At the same time, we condemn any campaign that gives rise to fear, by the way, not just us and not just the party family to which we belong, but also the party family to which you, at least legally, still belong. These are the facts that should be said in this debate. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-25-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, Democratic Coalition. Here you go.
u2019-03-25-11	Dear House, Let's start with the facts. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: A list leader?]] Point 7 of the UN migration package states that this is a non-binding document. Point 15 states that it is based on national sovereignty and respect for national-led immigration policies. Point 27 states that the aim of the package is to protect borders and to stop irregular, i.e. irregular migration. Secondly, the document of the Commission's Legal Service is neither a binding document nor any obligation on the Member States. And how secret it is, it shows that it has been given to you, even though everyone in Brussels knows that you are enemies of the Union. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Thirdly, there are EU infringement proceedings against Hungary not because it does not fit in with some secret plan in your imagination, but because the Minister will not receive a premium because he has not mentioned the Soros plan now, so they are not launching procedures, but because the rights of Hungarian citizens and the rule of law are not respected. They launch procedures because they take away the rights they enjoy under EU law from the Hungarian people. And that is your government, which brings people into Hungary without a settlement obligation, and it is your government that brings tens of thousands of migrant workers outside the EU to Hungary to press the wages and force Hungarians to work overtime. So I have to say that you lie, lie, and lie. [[Uproar, interrogation from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] This campaign is a continuation of the lying poster campaign that is now going to get you cut out of your own party family, and I would add that not only the European People's Party, but also European Hungarians, are fed up with this campaign of lies. This will be shown in the European Parliament elections in May. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: Meg!]] Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2019-03-25-12	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes of the LMP Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2019-03-25-13	Mr President, Thank you so much for the opportunity. Dear Minister, I think it is clear to everyone that, in recent years, it has been the Hungarian government that has relocated immigrants to Hungary for tens of thousands of people, I believe that the entire Hungarian society already knows this. So much could actually be done with your speech, but this problem is much more serious than doing so. I think that we all agree in this Chamber that effective action against the global migration crisis is a matter of fate for Europe, so it is also a question of fate for Hungary. We also agree that immigration policy must remain national. The EU's external borders must be protected and illegal migration must be stopped. At the same time, it is clear that we will be able to take action if we manage to deal effectively with the causes of migration. It is the joint responsibility of the entire EU political elite that they have reached only symptomatic treatment, including your former party family, the People's Party and the competent representatives of the Hungarian government. Minister, one of the main causes of the migration crisis is global climate change. It is absolutely clear that effective action can be taken only globally and jointly. The European Union recently presented a climate strategy, which was vetoed by the Hungarian government. So we can say that the Hungarian government is not a force against migration, but the Hungarian government is a force supporting migration. I think that the Hungarian people have a right to know why the Hungarian Government has taken this step and why it prevents the Union from acting together to address the causes of migration. Thank you.
u2019-03-25-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Bence Tordai of the Dialogue Group. Here you go, Congressman. [[11.20]]
u2019-03-25-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. It seems that Fidesz is in a lot of trouble at the beginning of the EP campaign, because we had to bring forward the issue of migration again. From nothing, we have now listened to a ministerial speech before the agenda, which serves nothing but the purpose of herding. That is why such a category B conte was drawn, a conspiracy theory, which no one in the European Union shares in the European Union except you, because if it had been such an acute and so serious subject, this matter would obviously have been on the agenda at the European Council meeting last week, which did not happen. In fact, this is about not talking about the suspension of Fidesz from the EPP, so that we do not talk about the fact that the KGB bank is being established here in Hungary, and with all the exceptions and discounts, they support the operation of the spy network in Putin. Let's not talk about kicking off European and NATO solidarity, releasing Russian arms smugglers who were planning to assassinate America, releasing it to Russia instead of the United States of America. So let's not talk about you running out of allies in Europe and the North Atlantic. And it is no coincidence that he has also come together in Hungary, practically regardless of the world view, only a whole opposition unit against Fidesz, depending on human decency. So it looks like you're on your own. They are on their own, and in the EP campaign they are desperately trying to repeat that everything is about migrants and migration. Compared to this, it is quite clear that you here are party propaganda on government money, public money, Hungarian taxpayers' money, continuing the Fidesz EP campaign, as you have personally confessed in your interview with the BBC. Thank you, we don't want any more public-paid Fidesz propaganda.
u2019-03-25-16	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-03-25-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Mr. Gyöngyösi Group Leader started by talking about secret plans. Well, don't use the plural first person, because you don't talk about it, you regularly deny these plans, lay low when these plans come up, and you don't speak out against the plans. Once again, it has been found that the branches of Brussels bureaucrats are full of pro-immigration proposals. This is a number of times because they have denied quotas, migrant visas, migrant cards charged with European taxpayers' money, increasing the budget of pro-migrant NGOs, removing the right to border protection, and creating migration channels. However, it has always been found that these measures are prepared, submitted or adopted. Let us add that the Hungarian pro-immigration opposition voted in favour of these proposals every time and voted in favour of the resettlement of migrants to the European Union. Hungary's position is clear, migration must not be organised and financed, but stopped. That is why it was the right decision when the Hungarian Government rejected the UN's Global Migration Package, quit the adoption process and then voted 'no'. Therefore, the migration package is not binding on Hungary. Once again, in this EU cycle, the Commission is preparing to make the migration package mandatory in the EU by far beyond its scope, with secret pacts over the heads of the Member States. It is telling that Commissioner Dimitris Avramopoulos said before the UN in New York this autumn that the European Union is and will be participating in the UN Global Migration Package. He once again believed in quotas and announced that he wanted to spend more money on migrants. The question arises who authorised the Commission to do so. What unanimous decision has been taken between the leaders of the Member States on the basis of which an EU Commissioner can make such a statement? This is why the European Parliament election in May is crucial for the establishment of a leadership in Brussels that thinks about fair cooperation between nation states, not in an empire, and which wants to stop migration, not to encourage it, and which wants to protect Christian culture, not to destroy it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-25-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with further speeches before the agenda. Speaking before the agenda, Mr Lajos Korózs, MSZP Group asked for an address from the O.R. to the boiler. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-03-25-19	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, I'm bringing you one of the favorite poems of our youth. What are you? A 28? We understand each other in half words. We're blowing the same song, aren't we? You say stadium, I say education. You say it's a premium for soccer players, I say it's a payday for teachers. You say it's wet, I say it's a water block to school. You say it's a soccer academy, I say it's a science academy. You say budget rationality, I say research freedom. You say segregational education, I say integrated education. You say exclusion, I say inclusion. We understand each other, don't we? You say it's paid health care, I say it's a national risk community. You say hospital debt, I say underfunded. You say amputation, I say vascular surgery. You say cut, cut, cut, I say mofetta. You say it's a success story, emergency care, I say it's a tragedy to arrive in 30 minutes. You say I'm an O.R. and an O.R., I say it's notice period. You say CT, I say fidesz corruption. You say ventilator, I say fidesz corruption. You say X-ray machine, I say fidesz corruption. We're gonna make it out of half words, aren't we? You say fear and tremble, I say be open and acceptable. You say stone and fountain, I say tree, shrub and flower. You say it's Lőrinc Mészáros on Lake Balaton, I say it's the children's on Lake Balaton. We understand each other, don't we? You say it's a national capital class, I say they're oligarchs. You say it's a three-year working time limit, I say it's a scoundrel. You say 400 hours overtime, I say slave law. You say flexible use of the workforce, I say exploitation. You're telling me to work more so you can make more money, and I'm saying they want to make eight hours to make a decent living. You say it's a strategic agreement, I say you sold the Hungarian worker a kilo. You say that the minimum pension of HUF 28 500 has been unchanged for ten years, and I say that EUR 300 is a minimum pension of the EU. You say the disabled are frauds, I say the humiliated should be compensated. We understand each other from a word, don't we? You say family tax breaks, I say only the rich can use it fully. You say family tax breaks, I say family benefits should be increased. You say family tax breaks, I say motherhood benefits should be raised. You're saying family tax breaks, I'm saying we should raise the kid. You say it's investment housing with state aid, I say it's a social housing. You say car shopping for luxury wives, I say car shopping and conversion support for disabled people. You're telling me it's too much for the rich, and I'm telling you it's rent-free for the young. We understand each other, don't we? Dear House, Clearly, we are talking about differences in values. You only want a better life for the privileged, we want prosperity for the needy. The only children you care about are the rich, and we care about every child. You are moving away from Europe, and we will stay in Europe. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-03-25-20	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2019-03-25-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, There is no greater contradiction than what the socialists have said and done in opposition over the last three decades. On the contrary, you have always promised everything, and when you are on the government, you have done exactly the opposite. In fact, the record has now been set that they not only say and do the opposite in relation to government and opposition, but they can now also contradict themselves as opponents when, for years, Jobbik has been considered a Nazi party, which must be disfellowshipped from Hungarian politics and then made their number one ally, with whom they want to run for elections. In fact, in some cases they have already started the elections together in recent years. Honourable Congressman, During your administration, the country learned the term "visit fee," "hospital daily allowance." You christened and introduced the training contribution instead of tuition fees, making it difficult for the family of all Hungarian children who want to learn further. You were the only ones who guaranteed a luxury profit only for multi-company companies, but you were always taken from the Hungarian people. They took away the child for the third year, took away the tax allowance for the first and second children, reduced the tax allowance for the third child to less than half, and there is a list of how people were driven into foreign exchange loans by eliminating the system of subsidised housing loans. And they've always heard the voices of the multinationals, never the voices of the people. Therefore, the minimum wage has never been raised as much as civil governments. [[11.30]] You, who are saying you are, and are trying to suggest, Mr Korózs, that you would be politicians of small-time, small-time working people or people living on welfare. On the other hand, you are marching on the hunger march with 100 million bank statements in your pockets, and when the minimum wage really should have been raised to help small-time people, you have always heard the voice of the multinationals and never raised them to a noticeable extent. The Fidesz-KDNP government had to come to raise the minimum wage from HUF 17,000 to HUF 50,000, the income of the smallest earners to a large extent, and another Fidesz-KDNP government had to come eight years later to raise the minimum wage from HUF 73 500 to HUF 149 000, so that the minimum wage would rise to HUF 195 000, so that the minimum wage of the skilled worker would increase to HUF 200,000; in Hungarian: people could really earn more, not just write it in words, not just in electoral posters, not only in election campaign plans, but in people's pockets pockets in Hungary. And a Fidesz-KDNP government had to come to a place where performance is not punished but encouraged, where taxes on workers have fallen to a record low level, because the present 15% tax rate is a fraction of those above 30 percent that were previously in the time of socialist governments, and the tax on small entrepreneurs is now one-digit, not more figures than it was in your time; that those who undertake in Hungary as Hungarian people should not be taxed to death. That is what we could do, and fortunately there are positive consequences. If you look at how many people in Hungary have problems eating meat food every two days, so that they can make their own lunch or dinner of meat, then you can see that if you compare the 2010 numbers, your period of government with our government from 2017, when Eurostat has the most recent figures for this, then the European Statistical Office says that now 1 million 683,000 fewer people have a problem to pay for this in stores. If you look at how many people have had problems with credit or housing costs, your favourite Eurostatist statistics in Brussels, you see that now 1 million 166 thousand people have been less problems in their daily lives. If you look at how much fewer people are in a situation where it is difficult to properly heat up their apartments in winter, you can see that more than half a million people have been reduced in number to whom that is a problem. And if you look at how many people in 2010 had the opportunity to pay for a one-week summer holiday and go to Lake Balaton or anywhere and how many people have problems now, you can see that a week's holiday is now over 2 million more people in Hungary, honourable Member. We can say that unexpected spending, the replacement of a broken household appliance, is also a problem for fewer people in a million scale than it was eight years ago. Therefore, honourable Member, the Hungarian people do not ask or ask for your policy. You are unbeatable in promises, but then, unfortunately, you are also unbeatable in austerity. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-25-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Márton Gyöngyösi, Head of the Group, Jobbik Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2019-03-25-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We heard poetry and aphorism this morning. As I listened to last week's European People's Party decision and the subsequent Fidesz communication, I thought of a Örkény-one-minute-long one-minute-long one-minute-minute-long one-minute-minute-long talk, and it was said that Minister László Rajk, the old fighter of the party, was sentenced to death at his own request. The execution took place in the spirit of mutual agreement and trust, in front of a small number of guests. The Orbán system, unfortunately, is very much explained by the fact that Örkény's one-minute hearing in 1949, which was about the development of the communist regime, fits perfectly with the system that you created. The Fidesz communication on the day you were decided in Brussels was this. Orbán said that we cannot allow Fidesz to be suspended that afternoon. A few minutes later, Gergely Gulyás said that if Fidesz' membership was suspended, Fidesz would voluntarily leave the party family. The result was born in 190:3, a 99 percent failure, after which you were constantly talking about victory and the fact that Fidesz is now voluntarily suspending membership of its own party family. This reminds you of another Monti Python, the black knight still fighting for a tie against his opponent who cut off every limb. He even had the intuition to make it a draw after such a defeat. You're trying to win. It was only the KDNP's idea when it came to thinking about its own membership. I'm guessing KDNP's entire polling base chewed all his nails to the bone. The Fidesz and the European People's Party's debate remotely reeks of a pact, a backup deal. Of course, without losing a face, no one wants to leave the negotiating table, so we had to make a Dodonan decision that would benefit everyone. The 13 critical parties that threatened the People's Party to leave, if you stay, they've got what's coming to them. Both Weber and Daul could play a little hardball and show that the People's Party is united by delaying the decision and sanctions for the period after 26 May. Of course, make no mistake, because the point is that you have been disqualified; the point is that the decision has been made and you are treated as a pariah by your own allies. You are currently on the edge of your own party family, and I am not really interested in your fate, the fate of your party. However, as a responsible Hungarian politician and as a Hungarian citizen, I do care that the party that is currently Hungary's governing party will not be able to enforce Hungarian national interests at present, as even its own allies turn their back on it. And this is the real disaster of your politics and the kind of diplomacy that Peter Szijjártó's name represents. The fact that this is a problem for our country is no better than to show that the debate on the new European budget will begin after 26 May, the debate on the seven-year budget, where it is already known that Hungary will receive HUF 2000 billion less, will reduce its budget to Hungary by 24 percent, which means that every Hungarian person will receive less money from the next European budget by HUF 200,000. You go to the negotiating table by treating you as pariahs, even your own allies, not just on the international stage or other partners. [[Dr. Pál Völner: The Jobbik!]] You also use migration only to cement your own power. Here we have already said before the agenda that you are one of the largest immigration support organisations in Europe today. After all, 86,000 migrants have been deployed, 15,000 migrants have passed through Hungary to Austria during your regency, while you are talking about protecting Hungary. Jobbik will really protect Hungary from migration. We say that border guards must be placed next to the fence and that migration must be protected from our continent in cooperation with the European Union. This is what we will represent in the elections to the European Parliament. The stakes are huge, whether we can remain a member of the European Union. We will represent staying, we will stand for it.
u2019-03-25-24	Congressman!
u2019-03-25-25	Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-25-26	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2019-03-25-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, In relation to last week's events in the People's Party, you seem to be catching up with Mrs Judith Sargentini, who approached the issue with a similar temper. The thing is, it's growing together, and it's coming together. Mrs Judith Sargentini and you are obviously very disturbed by the fact that there are serious conflicts in European politics, and in these conflicts, the Hungarian government stands up for its position, even if it involves taking on even more conflicts. There are two kinds of politics, and there are two kinds of politicians. One kind of politician is the one with whom the position defines the point of meeting, and vice versa, there are those with whom the point of view determines the position. [[11.40]] Jobbik, your party and you are a politician where the meeting point determines the position. You were Hungary's accession to the European Union at a time when stability and national unity were needed, learning about the EU acquis, who burned an EU flag and campaigned to leave the Union because it paid off for you in the interest of power. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Tell us a little about the Lisbon Treaty.]] And now we see the same thing, in your case, once again, the sitting point determines the position. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Liberal International!]] You are now pursuing a policy, in the interest of power, so that you can define yourself against the government, which, on the one hand, will wash you against those who believe in the creation of a European superstate, who believe that nation states are unnecessary, outdated constructions that must be dismantled and that the empire, Brussels, should be given as much authority as possible. Government parties really think differently, and on this side the position determines the meeting point. We like politics there, and we want to politicalise in the future, where we can enforce our interests, and where there is space or capacity for a policy that we consider to be ours. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Only no one wants to see you anymore!]] We believe and believe that Europe is built on the Jewish-Christian culture, built on the community of equal nations, and we believe that mass migration and the imperial aspirations in Brussels undermine this Europe, which we all love and of which we are all part. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Why didn't you think so in the Lisbon Treaty? Dr. László György Lukács: At the bottom of the cesspool...]] Consequently, we will also represent this policy even if it involves conflicts. But it's worth seeing how Jobbik is doing in the meantime. I have looked at Jobbik's programme for Europe. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: At least we have one!]] What you have in your Europe programme is that European solutions must be applied to migration. If they had been watching over the past few years, they would have known exactly what European politics looks like. And while we were here listening to your political analysis, it was a wrong analysis. The correct analysis would have looked at the fact that from 2015 when 400 thousand illegal immigrants marched through Hungary, the European Union was the one who said that this was correct and completely normal. It was Hungary, so it was a nation state that said that this was unnatural, abnormal, and that borders must be protected. What's happened since then? [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Pull yourself together!]] The elite of the European bureaucrat in Brussels continues to push for pro-immigration plans, to continue to turn Europe into an immigrant continent, and to date these plans have failed against the resistance of the Member States. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: There have been changes.]] It was the Member States because the voters in the Member States forced them to block these plans. [[Zsolt Gréczy: 86,000!]] So, when you say that a European solution is needed, you are in favour of the Brussels plans to take away the powers of the Member States in relation to border protection, migration policy, to organise them at the supranational level in Brussels and to conduct the project that the European elite considers to be the subject of an immigrant continent. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You are very weak, even for yourself!]] On the other hand, we believe that EU powers should not be strengthened, but that the right of border protection should be removed from Brussels bureaucrats and given back to the Member States. [[Intercoms, the president's ringing.]] We believe that real help must be provided in the issuing areas, and that we must not talk about help, but take action. We have implemented this within the framework of the Hungary Helps programme and we support its extension at European level. And allow me one last thought. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Next time I'll take the Drum. Can we?]] At the moment, it is extremely difficult to come to Europe and Hungary illegally with the help of smugglers. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Bond!]] We are working to keep it that way in the future. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Gruevski!]] We would like to thank you very much if you could support this policy. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's constant noise. A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-25-28	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, By trying to be loud in a choir during the period of response, we cannot move forward. [[Martin Gyöngyösi: We can't stand lies! Dr. Bence Rétvári: They only like Ference Gyurcsány.]] I think the Fidesz-KDNP Group was quiet when your group leader spoke, please stick to this. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: Because you know that a fidesz is lying, that his mouth is moving.]] Congressman! Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Arató, MEP, DK Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech: you can lead yourself out of the EU, but not our country! It's an address. You have the floor.
u2019-03-25-29	Dear House, If I were Mr. Secretary of State, I wouldn't boast that instead of illegal migration, you made the settlement policy standard and made the admission of criminals standard in the Gruevski case. This is a scandal, my honourable Members. And you're wrong, Secretary of State, when you think you've been voted by Sargentini or by Fidesz. The People's Party voted on you, they decided in the People's Party 190:3 without asking for the policy that Fidesz represents. [[Peter Cseresnyés: Were you there?]] And of course, they can perform their voluntary request for suspension and leave the People's Party at their own request in recognition of their merits, but they all know it's a lie. If you'd asked for suspension voluntarily, you wouldn't have had to vote. But you have voted, and you have been given a clear opinion by the Christian Democratic right-wing parties to which you refer, by the way. The fact is, honourable Members, honourable Members, that the People's Party no longer asks for you, nor does the European right request you, nor does it ask for this policy. And it's not a win, it's not even a tie, it's a defeat, it's a nasty defeat! Even if you try to make a confident smile, and every time you tell me that this is how you always get off your bike. Do you know what the voluntary departure was? When they left the Liberal International! Well, that was voluntary departure, even if it was unfair. That's an exclusion. The People's Party doesn't need you. Gergely Gulyás said that if you were suspended, you would leave the People's Party that day. Where is this? It was obviously a bluff, you were bluffing; you were hoping that they would cry after you and say, "Oh, dear, don't go." But that's not what happened. What happened was that you were suspended, and you didn't quit the People's Party. Because they know that if they quit, they'd lose the rest of their influence. Instead, they peeed, apologized, promised that even the CEU, as you call it, the Soros University could stay in Budapest. The only problem, my dear fellow Fidesz colleagues, is that the dog doesn't believe you in Europe, not even the people of the People's Party! We could even continue to enjoy failure and this embarrassing explanation, but the thing is, I am not here to be happy that it is bad for you, but I am here to represent the interests of this country and of the Hungarians in Europe. And the problem, my fellow Members, is that you will lead Hungary out of the European Union in the same way as Fidesz was led out of the People's Party. They no longer have influence, they're not there for decisions, they can't really talk about matters. You have been pursuing an anti-European policy for many years, you have been lying about the European Union for many years, you have been pretending that you have not been sitting in the most important decisions in the European Council for many years; you have been acting as if an empire was built in Brussels for many years. We have heard it now: you call the community from which they are otherwise given the resources needed to enable Hungary to operate, which provides economic relations without which Hungary would enter the ground. Economic growth in Hungary stops if there is a coffee break in the Audi or if one of the multinationals is on strike because of unacceptable overtime and low wages. What kind of turf war of freedom is it that the labs finance? [[It's grumpy.]] But there is no doubt that you will continue this policy because you have not understood this very serious warning. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Good thing you understand.]] And you may not want to lead Hungary out of the European Union, but that will be the consequence. They didn't want to leave the People's Party, they didn't want to leave the People's Party, they just couldn't stand you anymore. We're not gonna let you do that. [[Németh Szilárd István: What?]] We will not let Hungary be destroyed! Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarians in Europe want to stay in the European Union, the Hungarians in Europe want to participate in the process of creating a new stronger European Union. They want it to be a European united state that guarantees all Hungarians an adequate family allowance [[Németh Szilárd István: That's the point...]] to get an adequate pension [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Just like in Austria, right?]] so that the wages will reach European standards to guarantee them [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] to ensure that the multinationals are taxed fairly in Europe, so that they do not seek their favor, as you do. [[István Szilárd Németh: Like under the Gyurcsány government...]] [[11.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, The biggest obstacle today is not the European Union, but your government. We want a Europe that is a Europe of citizens, a Europe of citizens [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And he's not a prisoner for governments playing corrupt and power games. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2019-03-25-30	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Secretary of State, you have the floor. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári to Gergely Arato: Here comes the answer! Where are you going?]]
u2019-03-25-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd be happy to answer Mr. Harvester if he didn't leave the room. [[Gergely Harvestó: I'll wait for the answer, I'll just go up to my notary's seat.]] But it's so important that I answer without her presence. Honourable Congressman, As far as leaving and leaving the Union is concerned, there is no better word for it, nonsense, of the frivolous kind; you cannot be serious about it. EU membership is a national interest, it obliges all public actors in Hungary, but the support for membership can only be high if we speak frankly about problems, harmful processes and do not sweep them under the carpet, as it was before the Brexit. You're the one who suggested that we had our fights. Yeah, that's right, because this government doesn't pursue diplomacy under the carpet, but when it comes to the interests of the country, it gets into the debate. In these circumstances, it is worth asking what is the background to the current debates. Europe is facing a serious identity crisis. Public actors in Europe have different answers. Some people see the solution in strengthening bureaucracy. This is what you call a European United States, and others see the solution in strengthening the nation states. We are one of the latter, because we believe that the greatness of Europe has been made possible by the cooperation, competition and respect of the nations. This first debate in principle, by the looks of it, has been really spectacular by the migration crisis, because the debate is on whether or not immigrants should receive an anonymous credit card filled with money and how to protect borders. This debate appears everywhere. It appears in the EU institutions, in the debates between the EU institutions and governments, and there is also a fever within the individual party families. Yeah, that's right. As far as the European People's Party is concerned, it is more important than party discipline to combat immigration, and it is no secret that there are members within the EPP that are closer to you in this matter than to us. Those who want to divorce us, for example, all of them voted in favour of the resettlement quota. We have said it everywhere, and we will say here that we do not want a pro-immigration conflict in Europe. We do not want the European right to put down the gun on strategic issues before the European liberals and the European left. We want the European right to be renewed and not to choose the path of self-destruction, because under these circumstances, this would also be Europe's self-destruction. What is the specific importance of this debate in terms of the life and security of Hungarians is enough to open the papers, honourable Member. Recently, one of the leaders of the Islamic State, a terrorist, was captured in Budapest. [[Martin Gyöngyösi: This is about you too!]] He was captured by the Counter-Terrorism Center, which you have repeatedly demanded in this House to be removed. This brutal jihadist is linked to the execution of at least 20 people, and in a very typical way he claimed to be a refugee, and he also received an anonymous credit card filled with money. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: That's how much you protect the country!]] So much for checking these cards. [[Martin Gyöngyösi: He would have bought a bond! You fell from a client!]] As early as 2015, NATO's Secretary-General pointed out that migrants could also be returning terrorists. Even last year's European Parliament report reports that between 3900-4300 EU citizens who fought in the Islamic State and a third have already returned to Europe. This report also states that the number of returning fighters will increase significantly with the collapse of the Islamic State. I think this forecast is particularly topical these days, and there is a huge risk. And what did you say about this risk? Ferenc Gyurcsány said that even dog dirt should be feared more than terrorists. That's what you said. I wonder if they'll maintain that claim. Either way, it is not too late, it is still not too late to adapt their policies to reality and Hungary's security interests. Based on their rampage so far, our hope for this is thin, but when it comes to national affairs, it is hope that dies for us last. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-25-32	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, To speak before the agenda, Mr Bence Tordai, Dialogue Group, spoke with the title of Builders and Destroyers. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-03-25-33	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, There are basically two kinds of politicians in the European Union: builders and destroyers. But in the EU, unlike some Hungarian villages, it is not the will of a man who decides who is a builder and who is a destroyer, but the European political community decides about it. Last week, there were two decisions in the EU that qualified Hungarian politicians. The lucky thing is, the decisions were fair. The builder received his reward, and the destroyer politician received his punishment. Let's start with the good news. Mr Benedek Jávor, Member of the European Parliament of Dialogue, won the award of the EP representative of the year. The MEP Awards awarded eight awards to the best representatives, Benedek Jávor won in the field of environmental protection. [[István Szilárd Németh: Tell me the other prize!]] In its reasoning, the jury highlighted Jávor Benedek's outstanding commitment to environmental issues, its contribution to law, legislation and application, including sustainable development goals, implementation of EU environmental policy, energy efficiency and reduction of energy poverty, the circular economic package. [[István Szilárd Németh: A true polyhistorian!]] the nature conservation action plan, notification protection, the cessation of deforestation and sustainable forest management, as well as making safe drinking water available to all. On behalf of today's and future generations, I thank Benedek Jávor for his work so far and wish him good luck in continuing. [[An intervention from the Fidesz ranks.]] Good luck with the sequel. Also on the 20th of March, when one Hungarian politician, Benedek Jávor, was placed on the plaque of glory, another, Viktor Orbán, saw his name on the wall of shame. Orbán and his party were shorelined by their own party family. They have suspended their rights in the European People's Party so that they can no longer influence the work of the European party behind the largest EP faction. It seems that even in the eyes of right-wing party leaders it has become a priority to distance themselves from Fidesz during the EP campaign, which has become infinitely embarrassing in the eyes of European Conservative and Christian Democrats. Of course, the humiliating decision was not unexpected. Last year, a two-thirds majority in the European Parliament condemned the policy of Fidesz by the Jávor Benedek Groupmate, Judith Sargentini [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Are they comrades? I didn't know.]] on the basis of a report. Even then, two thirds of the representatives of the European People's Party voted to condemn the Fidesz Government. But last week's decision has actually become official: Orbán and Fidesz were registered as destructive, damaging players in the EU, and members of his own party family are no longer standing up for him, with some sympathy at best from the extreme right financed by Putin. In our country there was an unprecedented unity against Fidesz's policy. At the time of the change of regime, the liberal and clean-handed Fidesz has now become an infinitely corrupt and corrupt, immoral party, which, with his hate-based politics, drifted to the extreme right of the political palette. Thus the central force field collapsed, the meeting room unit from Jobbik to Dialogue and the disgruntled people are forcing the Fidesz system to back down in more cases. Not only are they green, left-wing and liberals, right-wing and conservatives, Christian democrats, independent of Fidesz, but the people who used to work for Fidesz, who wake up to their conscience, also face the destructive policy of Fidesz. It's not a matter of world view anymore. Here, honest people are facing dishonest Fides, and here the well-meaning people are facing cynical and unscrupulous Fidesz at home and across Europe. It is in the interest of the people against the interests of the Orbán clan, the power of the people is against the people of power. Fidesz, the party of destroyers, is now alone. So this is the formula. On the one hand, politicians building, strengthening Europe, serving the citizens of Europe and between them, such as Benedek Jávor, on the other hand, politicians who destroy and weaken Europe and their own country, serving Vladimir Putin, such as Viktor Orbán. To quote the '90 Fidesz slogan, please select! It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, [[Interviews from Fidesz: Fantastic! Dr. Bence Rétvári: Applause! Károly Kontra: No applause? Dr. Bence Rétvári: Ovation!]] [[12.00]]
u2019-03-25-34	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-03-25-35	I understand you have been lobbying for Mr Jávor in part of your speech. We do not want to take a position on this, because they always ask for a mandate from the MSZP. As far as I know, the decision has already been made, it's none of our business, but we've taken note of you lobbying. We also notice that you have joined some left-wing representatives in taking a strong position on the issues of the European People's Party. From the point of view of this, it is okay to say in this House that the European People's Party is also divided by the debate on the Europe of global governance versus nations, which the migration crisis has made very serious. We have a debate on this issue, and we have talked about it here in the House. I will tell you, too, that the protection of Christian values and the fight against immigration are more important to us in this matter than party discipline. You would certainly applaud if the European People's Party fell in love with the left-wing parties on immigration, but you do not expect us to watch this without saying a word. We want a European renewal, including the renewal of the European right. By the way, this desire for you is not surprising from the point of view of your support for the quota, and the Member you mentioned also voted in favour of the Sargentini report, has caused our country a great deal of bad news in the European Parliament, so they have joined every initiative in Brussels that undermines or does not meet the country's security interests. There is a faint but very faint consensus between us that we believe that public life, European and Hungarian public life can be divided into builders and destroyers. Now, the MSZP to which you have joined and from which you are always asked for a mandate is famous for many things, but not for building: in economic terms, they almost destroyed a country, not to mention moral destruction. If you have such a high moral expectation, why do you join such a community and ask them for the mandate? As far as construction is concerned, we do not want to say that there is nothing more to build and that there is nothing more to develop in Hungary, but this country is going through its growing period. Allow me to support this with a few examples, because you always forget to mention these: credit rating agencies are forced to recognise the performance of the economy, the economy is growing by 5 percent, which, by the way, is at the forefront of Europe, nearly 800,000 jobs have been created, the minimum wage has doubled, the national wealth has increased by HUF 7000 billion, the public debt has decreased significantly, we are spending double as much on family support, and this does not even include what the government announced a few weeks ago, the home creation programme has already helped 100,000 people. And if you are building, because you have used this term several times, I would like to mention here that construction production in Hungary has increased by 29 percent compared to last year. Now, what you would build, we do not know very well, that you can show great productivity efficiency, not in thoughts and suggestions, but rather in Molino-showing and mollino-writing; we only know that you do not like us. We could live with that, but what they would add to the country's affairs, we have very thin knowledge of that. We know, for example, that the family support system would be abolished in this form, and that basic income would bring aid back to the top instead of work. We also know that the border lock would be broken down nicely. These plans are all about destruction, destroying faith in the future. By the way, the intention of destruction can be justified in other approaches: you were thinking a few days ago of an online portal, not sure whether non-violence could be maintained, i.e. the non-violence of the left or the opposition; you previously agreed with the destruction of December. Believe me, the electorate has an opinion on this, it is no coincidence that you do not dare to go alone in this election, but only trust the handout of the MSZP. For our part, we ask that you try to compensate for the lack of substance and support, not with violence, not with violence typical of you. I could say, if you're one of the destroyers, at least you shouldn't be proud of it. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-25-36	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, has also applied for a speech before the agenda:. Europe will be green or not! It's an address. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-03-25-37	[[Microphone error.]] Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, For my part, I do not want to be absorbed in all kinds of debates or depths of the Fidesz and the People's Party, because it is completely indifferent to what is happening to the Hungarian people. All that's going on is that there's a fake debate, there's a campaign that each party's taking advantage of for their own good, otherwise they're all completely incompetent. Fidesz has been unable for years to serve the interests of the Hungarian people... [[They put a portable microphone in front of the speaker.]]
u2019-03-25-38	Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2019-03-25-39	So I would not be absorbed in the depth of the debates between Fidesz and the People's Party, because all parties are completely incompetent: the Hungarian people are completely incompetent, because Fidesz was unable to represent the interests of Hungarian people outside the European Union, it does not want it, nor can it anymore, and in the coalition led by the European People's Party it was unable to deal with two major crises, the economic crisis in 2008 and the migration crisis in 2015. So these games are purely about positions, about how you, by the way, try to avoid controlling EU funds, so that you can continue to use these resources exclusively for your own gain. In the meantime, Hungarian people are not mentioned, the situation of Hungarian businesses, they do not stand up for the improvement of workers' wages, nor for the development of backward regions. It is clear that the government is an unconditional supplier of multinational companies to the detriment of the Hungarian people, and therefore nothing is expensive for you, even the EU climate plan is vetoed just to serve the automotive companies. They do not want to accept that any time limit for reducing EU CO2 emissions to zero is of no interest to you but, and only, to serve multinationals. For your part, it is a fully conscious policy that Hungarian people's wages are consciously kept low. The automotive industry already accounts for 20 percent of Hungarian GDP, thus delivering the Hungarian economy, keeping Hungarian workers in poverty, and a possible crisis could bankrupt the country, and this is all your responsibility. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Which car factory would the LMP close?]] Meanwhile, on important topics such as the fight against illegal migration and the fight against smuggling, the Hungarian government is constantly pulling itself out of work, judging only and exclusively from the outside. They have a lot of explaining to the Hungarian people. On the one hand, because they lie constantly, because the Orbán government is in fact pro-immigration, only 20,000 people were allowed into Hungary and the Schengen area without any substantive security checks, including criminals. This allowed him to get a lifelong residence permit, for example, for the money launderer of the Assad regime, while Szilárd Kiss, as a agricultural attaché, helped him with a Hungarian visa, citing a high-profile national interest, tens of thousands of Russian citizens, including criminals, and offshore companies, now earning 165 billion forints. These are offshore companies, which have the name of, for example, Antal Rogán. When you are talking about smuggling, Mr. Secretary of State, tell us how former Macedonian Prime Minister Gruevszki came to Hungary. I'll tell you: with the help of Hungarian diplomats, Schengen couldn't have been crossed by this man. He is the one who, by the way, fell for the fact in Macedonia that he completely illegally ordered and used the secret services to listen to journalists and opposition representatives. If it's smuggling, how did Ghaith Pharaon get here in Hungary, wanted for terrorist financing, and didn't he deal with the Hungarian Prime Minister's son-in-law? If, for example, we're talking about extraditions, how is it that the Azerbaijani ax murderer was released to Azerbaijan? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Is this still the green future?]] That he was released there immediately and that the Hungarian government did not ask for any guarantees? Russian arms dealers have been handed over to Russia, one of them has been released. And if we're talking about terrorism, then tell me how the New Zealand terrorist could have passed through Hungary. What did the Hungarian competent bodies do? These examples also show [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The Green Future.]] that the Orbán government is unable to ensure the security of Hungary. Meanwhile, the Investment Bank will also be moved to Budapest, which will not only support illegal intelligence efforts in Putin, but also break the rules on money laundering and control, while Paks II and the Hungarian taxpayers will be indebted to 4000 billion. [[12.10]] The stakes of the EU choice are whether there will be a real representation of the Hungarian national interest in the European Union at last. Our goal in the LMP is to build a Europe of people instead of a Europe of capital, to limit multi-businesses, to make substantial wage increases and to ensure the safety of Hungarian people [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] for example by strengthening the protection of the EU's external borders. So we need a new European Parliament, new Members and a new European Commission. [[A rare applause in the lines of LMP, DK and MSZP.]]
u2019-03-25-40	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés wishes to respond to what has been said, and of course his timeframe will be extended by 18 seconds. [[Péter Cseresnyés' microphone doesn't work. Take a few seconds. The microphone's working.]]
u2019-03-25-41	I got it. Thank you very much. Mr Demeter's speech before the agenda was entitled "Europe will be green or not!" He who listened to this eclectic speech could not decide how green policy was put on the label. I believe that those confused thoughts, unconnected sentences and formulated thoughts will be worth analysing later, since there will be a written record on this, and it will be worth figuring out what areas she wanted to touch on, what she wanted to ask, what she wanted to answer or respond to. I believe that what he has just said to these questions, in these areas, in recent years, after many of his fellow Members have already made comments, opinions and questions on these issues, he has had all the answers. I do not understand why you asked your question the way you asked, because in the case of immigration policy, you got the answer, if it was green policy, you got the answer, if it was climate protection, you got the answer. So I would suggest that, next time you ask questions, you wish to give an opinion, an opinion on which you expect a response, you should do so in an understandable way, in a characterised way, not confused with areas, ideas, and in that case you will receive an appropriate answer. I think in your case, you're playing on thin ice, talking and moving in the event that you're talking about a lack of competence in the government, because you've proven several times that in many cases, in which you've declared yourself a politician, you're suffering from a very serious lack of competence. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-25-42	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Speaking also before the agenda, Mr László Földi, from the Group of the KDNP:. The child is the greatest miracle.... You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-03-25-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Sándor Márai obviously says with a slight poetic exaggeration poetically: the child is the greatest miracle, the only meaning of life. Without a child, there is no future, but really the present is empty without it; it is empty, as are the cradles of Europe. Population loss is not a specific problem in Hungary, but a general problem at European level. There are fewer and fewer children, and Europe's society is getting older, and our future is running out, and we need to act now in the present to stop this. For us, it's natural. However, it is shocking that for many it is not. At home and across Europe, there are people who often cynically advocate the deviant idea of conscious childlessness on grounds of global population growth or other, generally deeply selfish and simplistic reasons. Of course, I am not talking about those who, for objective, material, or health reasons, are forced to spare the family, but about those who think they are, there may be unnecessary children. And we don't think there's any unnecessary child in this world yet. Each newborn is a unique, unrepeatable miracle, who comes between us with a clean slate, with his own mission, and with the message that there is a future, so there is hope. Therefore, a responsible political decision-maker should always seek to strengthen the family and support the birth of the desired children. At this point, it is important to stress that the child is also a social value, but in our belief it is not only necessary to have someone to raise our pension. It is undoubtedly a fact that this is also an important aspect of the problem of population loss, since a responsible government must always take into account the sustainability aspect. For the child, the family is the only optimal community in which he can raise the most safe in both physical, psychological and existential terms. Family is a community of security and love, the arm of which we can always return to embrace. The family is held together by value instead of interest. Our home is where our family is. The rest is just a place of residence. It is therefore very important to stand up for the family at all levels of decision making in a decadent world. The Scriptures also teach us this, for according to the book of Moses, the Lord God said, It is not good for a man to be alone. The family is the key to our country's future; not only our future, but also our independence. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We are living in an age of illegal migration. If we do not stand in the way, then the replacement of the desired but not born Hungarian children is occupied by the offspring of illegal immigrants. And we know the consequences: parallel societies, outlaw communities, biting terrorism, minority natives. There are also people in Europe and in Hungary who consider this, i.e. migration, a solution to population scarcity and labour shortages. They also attacked the national consultation on family protection, and even some Members went to the point of openly tearing up the consultation sheet, such as the socialist representative Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Others openly say that they see Hungary's future in migrants and not in support of Hungarian families. With the Family Protection Action Plan, we say that raising children is a performance that should be recognised at Community level. More than 1.3 million people in the national consultation have authorised us to complete our family policy. The first seven steps of this have been discussed in the House these days, and will continue in the future. This week's action, but to be extended later, is a strong response to the pro-immigration forces, so that we Hungarians can solve these problems on our own. Let us not give up our nation, our culture, our religion, our security. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that even the opposition colleagues will agree with the following message, but I am sure that all true Hungarians will: family for all children and children for all families! Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-25-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2019-03-25-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Brussels has a response to the declining population, and Budapest has an answer. Brussels's response is to install as many people from Africa and Asia into Europe as possible, and Budapest's response is to help families to have as many children as possible, and to have the financial opportunity to do so. This is the difference between family policy in Brussels and Budapest. We would like the support of families, the seven-point family protection action plan announced in this year's speech, to be a national matter, a case that everyone can stand by. Unfortunately, we see that opposition politicians are so committed to supporting immigration in Brussels that they cannot support the family protection action plan here in Budapest. What we see is that we are dealing with a frustrated opposition, which has missed a ratio, this was clearly visible at the beginning of the session and at the end of the previous session, when it has chosen different aggressive and different ways within Parliament, and now it is unable to come back from this situation, nor does it know how to deal with such national issues, such as family policy and support for families. This was also visible and heard from the debate that took place here in Parliament last week. [[12.20]] In different ways, with different pretexts, but not with support for the family protection action plan, but with someone attacking at seven points, some attack at twelve points, some attack in a resolution proposal, but everyone attacks in some way because they were put into this situation in December of the previous year. The European Left is clearly on a different path. Building European united states would mean that countries should not be able to help families themselves, but that they should be the only option for everyone. But, honourable Member, we have proved in the last eight years that it is worth choosing another way and another way. On the one hand, we have proven that by building the fence, immigration can be stopped on land, and the Italians have proved that it can be stopped at sea. [[Márton Gyöngyösi's intervention.]] On the other hand, negative processes can be turned to positive. The number of marriages in Hungary decreased before 2010 and the number of marriages has increased since 2010. The negative trend and the previous increase in divorces also stopped and reversed, fewer divorces now, and the number of abortions also decreased. But not only this positive trend turn, but, honourable Members and gentlemen, if we looked at the desire to have children in Europe in 2010, then Hungary was the driving force, the last of which was as low as we had. This is also called the fertility rate, the number of children for two parents, the average number of children for two parents. We were the last of the hoverboards, and with eight years of government performance, we improved twelve places according to this latest Eurostat statement. So, while everyone was ahead of us in 2010, we are now ahead of Austria, Slovakia, Finland, Poland, Croatia, Luxembourg, Portugal, Greece, Italy, Cyprus, Spain and Malta. This took eight years of persistent government intent and needed family support to grow as much as it did anywhere in Europe. The rate of these increases doubled, they were below HUF 1000 billion, and now they are over HUF 2000 billion. While the trend in the European Union is to reduce childishness, this so-called fertility rate has decreased, Hungary has increased, the second fastest increase in the EU has been the Hungarian rise, thus improving twelve places in this ranking. The opposition's attitude was well shown by the fact that when we asked the Hungarian people what measures the government had taken to help the Hungarian families, they came into Parliament and ripped up these sheets, because neither the Hungarian people's opinion was interested in this, say, tradition on the left, nor the support of families was considered an important issue so that it would be a national matter, and they would support one or other points of this, as far as possible, each point. The national consultation was also attacked and then the bill was also attacked in Parliament, honourable Members and gentlemen. The opposition did not vote in favour of family contributions that left a total of HUF 1901 billion for families between 2010 and 2018. Today, 130,000 parents are not required to pay taxes or contributions. Again, the child lasts until the age of three; by means of the family discount, families pay less tax if they are to have children. We introduced the ged extra so that we could get a job from the age of six months. We have introduced your student and graduate child; we have doubled the tax relief of the two children; we have introduced the benefit of newlyweds. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] we have already used 80,000 pairs; we have developed crèches; we have released mortgage debt in thousands of cases, and we can still tell you how much discount we could get against the opposition in student loan repayments, the cord payment program and the CSOK program. [[The president's ringing again.]] Despite its support, it is important to ensure that Hungarian families have access to it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-25-46	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr László Böröcz, Member of the Fidesz Group, also spoke before the agenda, with a title on our current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-03-25-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The pro-immigration forces will focus on all possible means to prevent countries and political forces that speak out in defence of national self-determination and Christian culture. Therefore, if we really love our country and want to stand up for Hungary, then let us take part in the EP elections on 26 May, let us show Brussels that the various civil society organisations linked to George Soros will not decide what will happen in Hungary. Let us show that what is happening in Hungary is decided by the Hungarian people, and it will not be from Brussels that the forces of the Balliberal elite and the parties who are going to join them will tell us. We will not be willing to participate at any level in what Brussels dictates if it violates the interests of the Hungarian people. Let us remember that when Brussels demanded cuts in 2010, the Hungarian government sent the IMF home and started a tax reduction programme. Or just think of it when it was considered justified that banks in foreign exchange-credit families demand 100 times what they originally recorded. It should also be remembered that one of the most bills in the EU was paid by Hungarian households, but Brussels would have lifted the burden on Hungarian people further. Instead, we announced the program for the reduction of the rent with the Hungarian government. Let's just think that Brussels has also asked us to let migrants in. The Hungarian government said no and built a fence. Now they want us to accept the migrants and accept the compulsory resettlement quota. The pro-immigration countries and their leaders have still not given up their idea of transforming Central Europe in terms of migration. However, the moral superiority remains with Central Europe, because we do not want to impose on Westerners our ideas about our own lives. Anyone can say anything, but Hungary will not give in to the right of which we have not given in a thousand years, as Hungarians will continue to decide what to do on matters that determine their lives. The Brussels bureaucrat elite has completely lost touch with reality, as if they were living in a bubble. We Hungarians, on the other hand, must stand on the ground on two feet, and we must always start from our own national interests. No bureaucrat in Brussels can tell us what to do, what to say or what to do. We have to make decisions now, because, by the way, 20, 30, 40 years from now, our offspring will face consequences, and perhaps we ourselves, too, that we will regret very much. Just think, in 13 years, the population of Africa will grow by half a billion, which is almost the same as that of all Europe now. At the same time, the gap between living standards in Africa and Europe will continue to increase. We are still in time to achieve unity in migration policy between East and West, which will be impossible later. Unfortunately, the current leaders and representatives of the EU are unable to solve the problem of migration. Therefore, the right to regulate migration and border protection should be removed from the Commission and instead a body of EU Home Affairs Ministers should be set up to provide an effective response to migration issues. Today, one of the biggest problems in the West is the coordination of the daily coexistence of indigenous peoples and the various masses. On the other hand, there are no such masses here in Central Europe, and if it is up to us, there will be none. The Hungarians do not want to experience it again, so that 400 thousand men of military age march across the country from one day to the next. That is why the fence was built, and that is why the Hungarian government went against the European mainstream. It is a key issue for Hungary to finally have a great European country that says what we Hungarians say about migration. The stakes of the upcoming elections to the European Parliament are therefore greater than ever: the pro-immigration forces in Brussels continue to lead Europe, or parties supporting national self-determination, border protection and Christian culture will take over the continent. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-25-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Péter Szijjártó wishes to respond to what has been said. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2019-03-25-49	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, There is no doubt that a very serious debate is taking place in Europe on the future of the continent. Obviously, the simplification of this debate by the Sovereignists and federalists would be offensively simple, but we can see that this debate also exists between the Hungarian parliamentary parties, because there are parties that would call for the creation of European united states, and there are also parties that believe that the European Union can be strong in the future if the European Union is to be made up of strong Member States. We believe that this is a dead end, that the path to a strong European Union would be through weak Member States. We believe that strong Member States, strong countries that adhere to their national identities, cultural, religious and historical traditions, are needed in order for the European Union to be truly strong in the future. [[12.30]] The future strength of the European Union depends to a large extent on the evolution of migration flows. In this respect, I do not think it is possible to ignore the fact that we either love it or do not like it or not, but there are 30-35 million people living in our immediate neighbourhoods in the south and southeast of Europe who either need humanitarian aid on a daily basis, or who are internally refugees, or who come from a place where armed conflicts continue to take place, or who have already come up from the subSaharan region to the north of Africa. This is 30-35 million people; 30-35 million people who, by their current situation, can at any time make a decision to move towards Europe. And these possible decisions are inspired by the political decisions that the European Commission has taken on a regular basis, the result of which is that the European migration policy is based on an invitation. It is based on an invitation to look at people who want to live a better life willing to risk their lives, hundreds of thousands of dollars, millions of people smugglers to get to Europe. And instead of helping the forces who want to stop this, instead of constantly pushing these forces from Brussels and constantly attacking European politicians who do not want to manage, organise, but stop migration. That is why it is important, honourable Member, whether we will be able to reach an agreement here in Europe in order to implement development programmes in Africa that develop Africa's population-preservation power at a rate at least as fast as the African population is growing. And at present, the European Union looks at African countries in a more hurtful way than those who would like to voluntarily send their own citizens to Europe, while African leaders regularly protest against this, saying that if the best young people leave the African country, they will build a modern economy in these countries. So I think that an invitation-based European migration policy, which can be interpreted as an invitation and unfortunately as an invitation, must be put to an immediate end and that much more focus should be on protecting our own borders and on development programmes in Africa in order to bring help to where there is trouble and not to import problems where there are no problems yet or to manage them. In the first phase of the debate before the agenda, a reference was also made to why we do not support Frontex. Because Frontex is a travel agency. And Frontex is not a border defence organization. Because no one really believes that ten thousand bureaucrats could also protect the European Union's southern border. All we have heard from Brussels for years is that the European maritime border cannot be protected. Australians have a slightly longer ocean border than we have the maritime border, and yet they have managed to reduce the number of ships carrying illegal immigrants to zero to the coast of Australia. [[Peter Cseresnyés: That's right!]] This can therefore be done here, but not with Frontex, not with the withdrawal of border protection rights from Member States, but with the strengthening of border protection and the understanding that this is indeed the responsibility and duty of the Member States. This is why, like the discussions of the finance ministers of the euro area, a Council of Home Affairs Ministers from the countries of the Schengen area should be established, which might be able to place sufficient emphasis on border protection in relation to all political efforts in Brussels. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We can't protect Europe without it. Thank you for your attention, and thank you for your patience. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-25-50	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the date of the resignation of Mrs Loránt Hegedűs was not clearly heard at the beginning of the meeting. I repeat the date of resignation from the mandate: 21 March 2019. So: 21 March 2019 Thank you very much for your attention. Dear Parliament, Today's speech after the agenda was tabled by Mr Bence Rétvári, Mr KDNP; Mr Attila Barcza, Mr Fidesz; Mr Dániel Z. Karpát, Mr Jobbik. Dear Parliament, Now, at 12:35 p.m., we will begin the discussion of questions and immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Péter Jakab, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of Finance a question:, Instead of Western wages, are workers from the East? It's an address. It is for Congressman Peter James.
u2019-03-25-51	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Secretary of State, I have a great offer for you: would you like to make as much money today in 2019 as you did ten years ago? I suspect not, but if you do, then take a job in East Hungary, in Szabolcs, because today you can earn as much as you could in the capital ten years ago. Your intestinal catch-up, Mr. Secretary, has been so good that today it is enough to travel 2-3 hours east or south of Budapest, and we are already flying back ten years in terms of wages, which means today the average monthly earnings in Borsod are 173 thousand forints, in Békés 163 thousand forints, and in Szabolcs 153 thousand forints, Mr. State Secretary. After that, your boss, Viktor Orbán, has the guts to say that Hungary offers well-paying jobs in the countryside as well as the capital. What kind of jobs are you talking about? They're talking about the Borsodi tape job for 150,000? Is this the well-paying job? Or is it the well-paying job where you get to work 400 hours a year? Because according to Tamás Deutsch, the Hungarian worker is happy to spend another hour or two on the shift? Is this the well-paying job? You don't know the truth, Mr. Secretary. The reality is that there are three possibilities for workers in the countryside in Hungary. If you don't like one of your multi-band lines, you can go next to the other's multi-band line, which is why many people choose a third way: to the West! And what's your answer to that? It's not that they're raising wages, it's that they're organizing cheap, eastern migrant workers. It's a dead end, Mr. Secretary. It's a dead end. Hungary does not need eastern migrant workers, but Western wages. A container city in Tiszaújváros: does that mean anything to you, Secretary of State? If not, I'll help you: the MOL area is under construction, according to the locals, so that thousands of Turkish migrant workers can be accommodated. Why are you hiding this, Mr. Secretary? The Hungarians have a right to know, don't they, who they want to move into our villages and cities? ! Please inform us who are building the container city of Tiszaújváros, and whether it is considered dangerous if a partly state company is already swearing on immigrants instead of the Hungarian labour force. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-25-52	Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Sándor Bodó. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-03-25-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman! I am trying to give you a realistic picture of the situation in the Hungarian labour market. In particular, nearly four and a half million people are now working in Hungary, which is 700 thousand more than the data before 2010. With regard to wage increases, I can inform you that at the end of the year, at the permanent consultation forum of the competition sector and the government, there was an agreement on wages for this year and for next year, a minimum or a guaranteed minimum wage, and even an 8 percent wage recommendation was made. Indeed, territorial wage differences are a real problem. There are economic reasons for this, but I must inform you that, for example, the average net earnings in these three counties have increased by around 60% over the last ten years. And part of your question is MOL Petrolkémia Zrt. In connection with the development of Tiszaújváros, well, the answer to that is that it is not a container city, there are indeed containers there to serve as a resting place for workers who are working on the construction site. It is a fundamental rule, which I think you know clearly, if it is not clear from your question, that third-country nationals can only be employed in Hungary if neither Hungarian nor EU workers are available for the given job in the domestic labour market. In Borsod-Abaúj county at the end of the last year, 64 foreign nationals from third countries had valid work permits, among whom, by the way, five were Turkish. As a whole, only 238 Turkish migrant workers worked on the basis of last year's data. The government is therefore committed to responding to the challenges of the labour market by finding and visiting the domestic workforce. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[12.40]]
u2019-03-25-54	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gyula Molnár, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Innovation and Technology:, Fidesz has no idea what to do with the Hungarian vocational training, only 18,000 applications have been made to the 50,000 places announced last year! It's an address. Congressman Gyula Molnár has the floor.
u2019-03-25-55	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Secretary. If someone tries to find a theme about what areas have been touched in the last nine years, and it was a pity because they have done more harm to the area than they have helped us, I think that the issue of education offers us almost unlimited opportunities. I would like to deal specifically with one section of this, vocational training. You have already submitted a concept in 2011, when you promised and said that everything here will be perfect, we will take over the German dual system, and everyone will be very happy, we will be excellent professionals. In 2015, they had to admit that this thing failed, and of course they communicated it because it is customary when you are disqualified, they also win that the system is successful, but it needs to be strengthened and some of its elements corrected. This was the 2015 concept, and we are now hearing and this is the number, which is also mentioned on the question, that the 50,000 seats have practically 18,000 applications, so this VET system has actually failed, and we are hearing that a new concept is being developed by 2020, and now they want to take over the Austrian model, whatever that means. Obviously, you're always trying to use some kind of communication panel. Meanwhile, the chancellor system has been introduced here, which, of course, will say that it is not so, but it has obviously not been successful for those involved in higher education either. Centralisation everywhere, taking funds, reducing the age of compulsory education, breaking up vocational training, which has marked the last nine years in this area. My questions, Mr Secretary, are therefore very simple and general. Can we ever expect real and quality vocational training in Hungary? And if such a situation arises, will they not, for once, be able to consult those involved in this matter? Thank you very much.
u2019-03-25-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-03-25-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, If you do not bother to look into what is happening about what you are trying to criticize, I must say that, unfortunately, you are doing nothing but trying to create a mood. I have to say this because you claim in your last question that the government does not involve experts in matters relating to vocational training. In contrast, the reality is that our work in this area is supported by the Vocational Education Innovation Council, in which representatives of trade unions, institutional supporters, students, the Hungarian Pedagogist Faculty, higher education, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and the Chambers of Economics sit. Who do you think isn't an expert? In the context of the Chancellor's system, we have explained several times, but we do do it again, that the whole point of the extended management structure is the division of labour, in which Chancellors relieve the Director-General responsible for ensuring the professional quality of training by providing management tasks and contacts with economic operators. And we have prepared the Vocational Training 4.0 strategy because we have not only been looking at recruitment numbers in recent years. It was your government whose education policy between 2002 and 2010 consisted only of running after the number of people, then closing schools and sending out teachers. On the other hand, we have been working since 2010 to improve vocational training, and the new strategy, based on the results so far, has been prepared at the request of business representatives, chambers, economic operators, an international, German and mainly Austrian model. The modernisation of vocational training knowledge materials, the development of institutions and the attractiveness of professional careers are achieved by what you want us to be accountable for, quality and effective vocational training. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-25-58	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Member László Varju, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance:. When will we have a euro? It's an address. Speaking of Congressman László Varju.
u2019-03-25-59	Thank you very much. Let us consider, as Mr.Secretary began, how much more than an atmosphere was there when, in 2011, Viktor Orbán, in agreement with György Matolcsy, said that there could already be a Hungarian euro in 2018. [[Peter Cseresnyés: You've only come up for eight years!]] Five years later, in 2016, Minister for Economic Affairs Mihály Varga said that Hungary is highly likely to adopt the euro by 2020. A few weeks ago, in February this year, President György Matolcsy already said that in the coming decades we can adopt the euro in the coming decades. Meanwhile, Romania has already announced that they will join the euro zone in 2024, certainly sooner than we will. Dear Secretary of State, This introduction of the euro is starting to be like Austria's catch-up, the reduction of public debt, and the recovery of health care. Every year, we're not getting any closer, we're getting further away from him. And all you have to do is promise that we will introduce it in the next decades. Why don't you just say that in the next century? Or why don't you tell me openly that as long as you have them, you're the only ones who have the euro? Or they're really going to do, like an excellent Hungarian stand-up player said, we're going to have a euro, and it's just going to say "rubel" on it. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] But you're not so stupid for your own good. I understand that the billionaire Fidesz elite has already made good money with the euro; among the first is the Butcher's fortune, which we can be proud of, as it is a bit ours. In 2010, the former mayor had a fortune of around HUF 100 million, in 2015 it lasted at HUF 8.4 billion, but now he and his family only publicly admitted their share of HUF 300 billion in companies listed on the Budapest Stock Exchange. If we add the non-share packages, he's already a billionaire in euros. As a European Hungarian, this is unacceptable. In my country, a million people have to make a living out of 300 euros. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] If we had a euro, it would give them security that this would not be worth less. I'll ask you when we'll have the euro. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2019-03-25-60	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai, who will answer the question of his representatives. Here you go.
u2019-03-25-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to begin with a comment, since the oral question submitted in advance also includes the fact that the introduction of the euro is beginning to be like the flowering of Hungarian football, but it has been left out of the oral question. This is a huge achievement, because it is obvious that the congressman saw yesterday's match. [[Rise and shine in the ranks of opposition parties.]] When we beat the world champion silver medalist, this comment was left out of the question. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] But if you will allow me, Congressman, to get to the point of a meaningful response, I would like to say a little bit about the time of your administration, and even about the time of your secretary of state, a few statements about the introduction of euros. On 16 July 2003, Péter Medgyessy said that the euro will be introduced in Hungary in 2008. Back then, he was a socialist government, although he was no longer the Prime Minister, nothing came of it. In 2005, the first Gyurcsány government postponed the date of adoption of the euro year after year due to its 100-day programme, due to the negative effects of irresponsible spending. The second Gyurcsány government has no longer set a target date for the adoption of the euro, so it is also known in your government that they will not give a target date. He did not give a target date because, due to the policy of the Gyurcsány government, the exchange rate of the euro increased from HUF 230 to HUF 320, which in the long term damaged the chances of the introduction of the euro. In the long term, the policy of the Gyurcsány government has corrupted the chances of introducing the euro. Finally, in January 2010, when the Bajnai government knew that it would no longer govern, it announced that it wanted to adopt the euro in 2011. Honourable Congressman, The current government will also be responsible for making economic decisions on this issue, and will implement the euro when it is in the interests of the Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[12.50]]
u2019-03-25-62	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance:.. What was the result of his trip to Moscow? It's an address. Congresswoman Márta Demeter has the floor.
u2019-03-25-63	Thank you. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Mihály Varga held talks with the Russian Finance Minister and the President of the Russian International Investment Bank in Moscow a month ago. For some reason, you have not been in a hurry to inform the Parliament or the public about these negotiations, and the press has also reported very little on this trip. So the Hungarian people still don't know what kind of deal you made with the Russians in the background regarding the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. They keep secrets because they hope that no one will notice that Hungary is being indebted. You're delivering your own country to a foreign power. LMP has been warning the government for years that Paks II. investment is unnecessary, expensive, dangerous and bad business. We have now come to the point that, while both the profession and the public reject the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, the Orbán government still stands by it for some mysterious reason. A bad contract with a bad concept. You continue to deceive elected Members of Parliament and, by the way, lead the Hungarian electorate by their noses when showing a climate strategy based on outdated data and when building a new nuclear power plant for secret studies. In this situation, the only responsible decision is to immediately shut down the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and, at the same time, to account for the money spent. A nuclear-free and carbon-neutral energy plan should then be adopted as a matter of urgency. This would be possible and desirable at the same time. This is a first-rate Hungarian interest, a token of the survival of our planet and Hungary. I would therefore like to finally have clear answers, Mr Secretary of State. Has there been an agreement during Mihály Varga's visit to Moscow to amend the financial agreement of the Paks investment? If so, tell me exactly what points and content the agreement is intended to be amended. If there is no agreement to amend the financial agreement for the Paks investment, is there a future negotiation with the Russian party?
u2019-03-25-64	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The question is answered by Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Minister.
u2019-03-25-65	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and With the implementation of the two new Paks blocks, we will create a future base for Hungarian electricity production. Our goal is clear: Hungary's interest is to provide people and businesses with cheap electricity. That's why we need to invest in Paks. The investment in Paks is necessary so that energy prices do not increase and that foreigners do not tell us what to eat, how much to eat. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The international credit agreement, mentioned by you, was published following the decision of the Parliament. The international credit agreement ensures that the funding source is available for the long term for the implementation of the blocks of the new power plant, so it is in the interest of the country, Hungarian citizens. This is essentially a safety net for Hungary, as this brings significant benefits due to the extremely long duration and the amount made available. Prepayment is possible, which is also in the interest of the country. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, if this credit agreement is amended, given that there is a realistic chance of doing so, it will be prepared in good time for the Parliament to discuss and approve it, so that you will be able to learn about it. Please be patient with regard to the amendment of the international treaty. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-25-66	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture:, Is the government of Hungary ready and able to enforce the laws on the protection of the environment, nature and cultural heritage and our constitutional fundamental right to a healthy environment at Lake Balaton? It's an address. Congressman Cake Olivio has the floor.
u2019-03-25-67	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We already know in Budapest how dangerous the development of the government is for the trees and the green surface, we have seen this in the City Park, Orczy Park or here, in Kossuth Square, where there is hardly any trees left. Lately, it's Balaton's turn. But here, it's not the government, it's the Fidesz entrepreneurs, businessmen that are destroying the environment. Slowly, no towel can be laid on the lake shore without the benefit of Lőrinc Mészáros or István Tiborcz. Thanks to them, from the green surface of Lake Balaton, the peaceful Zimmer frei, will now only become apartments and hotels, but these improvements will have terrible natural damage. Just looking at what's happened recently: the public park in Balaton's eyes was destroyed by an irregular dumping of construction waste. Balatonfenyves sailing port was built for a length of 500 meters, disrupting the flow conditions of the lake, muddying up the surrounding beaches. In Balatonföldvár a former green area was cemented for the construction of a parking. In Balatonfűzfő the trees were cut because they disturbed the view in front of the building. In Balatonfüred, the Brazay villa was drugged. In Keszthely, the construction regulations are amended, the installation possibilities are increased from 30 percent to 50 percent, and the installation height is also planned to be increased to eight metres. These cases all fit into a worrying trend, which the public administration seems unable to manage and prevent at systemic level. Dear Secretary of State, I'm sure you'll tell me every single case why the government can't solve this, why it's not the government's jurisdiction, or why these modifications were regular. But I'd like to know how the government plans to stop the Balaton from being trashed. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-25-68	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Farkas, Deputy Minister, answers the question. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Minister.
u2019-03-25-69	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, The government is particularly committed to ensuring that the Lake Balaton coast is accessible to everyone, and to enforcing the principles and objectives of nature conservation and environmental protection and urban image protection. In line with this, the Prime Minister's Office submitted to the Parliament a new spatial planning plan for the Balaton Highlighted Resort, which was adopted by the Parliament last year in December 2018. The Law on the spatial planning plan for Hungary and certain priority regions entered into force on 15 March 2019 and the protection of Lake Balaton has a particular role to play. The new law takes into account the results achieved by previous legislation and continues to strengthen the use of coastal land for public purposes, for the preservation of beaches, campsites, recreational green areas and coastal promenades, accessibility of the coast, maintenance of traditional land use in background settlements, thus as a means of cultivation it also includes rules on vine cultivation. The new law further strengthens the possibilities of installation compared to the previous regulation, as an example of which is the new requirement which no longer provides a way to increase the installation intensity. The protection of campsites and beaches has been tightened, they can only be redistributed if green areas are designated, there is no possibility of increasing the installation. Under the authority of the new law, there is preparation for the implementation of government regulations and ministerial decrees with settlement and construction requirements for the coastal area of Lake Balaton, in which more detailed requirements will apply in particular to the retention of existing green areas, beaches and campsites. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-25-70	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, György Hubay, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question: in the field of public safety, remarkable results! What further improvements are expected in the future? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2019-03-25-71	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the floor. Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, Now Miskolc has become a real model city for the cooperation of the police and the city police and for helping each other. It wasn't always like that. Ten years ago, the Socialist City Council recommended that the Miskolcs not go out on the streets tonight for the sake of public safety. In 2010, the Socialist Government spent just 340 million forints on public security, according to the Fidesz-KDNP city management, Mayor Ákos Kriza's programme, more than 700 million already in 2016 [[Zsolt Gréczy: Things have gotten so much worse!]] And last year, he spent more than 1 billion forints to guarantee the safety of the Miskolcs. [[13.00]] The number of city police has been raised from the initial 36 to 160. It is also noticeable that almost 13,000 registered crimes occurred in Miskolc during the Gyurcsány government. [[Zsolt Gréczy: What was in Miskolc during the Darányi government?]] which we were able to squeeze down to a third of our government, city, police, law enforcement professional work after 2010. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Dear Secretary of State, In close cooperation with the police, we developed a system of mixed patrols in Miskolc to double the public presence. In addition, a unique system has been introduced in the country, as we Miskolcs call it: the sheriff's system, in which a permanent district police officer can be called by residents for 0-24 hours. As a result, the number of crimes committed in the public area has already decreased by 56 percent compared to the socialist times in 2010, and the operation of the Miskolc Police is now a good practice in the international context, and the results speak for themselves. Dear Secretary of State, On the basis of the above, I respectfully ask what improvements in the area of law enforcement are expected to be made throughout the country in order to maintain the numerous positive results listed above and to further increase the effectiveness of law enforcement. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-25-72	Good afternoon. Secretary Kontra will answer the question. Here you go.
u2019-03-25-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Today, security is the most important community value in the country, all over the world, including Miskolc. I think that the police have achieved outstanding results in the last ten years, not only in Miskolc, but throughout Hungary. Let me give you a number: In 2010, there were 428 785 registered crimes, which in 2018 was 186 593, so dramatically, more than 50 percent of the number of known crimes decreased. But in the same way, the number of crimes committed in the public domain has decreased and the number of robberies has decreased even more. Security is the community value that we have to do more tomorrow or the day after than we did yesterday or the day before. I can assure you that in the 2019 budget, the development resource needed for the successful operation of the police has been secured, with 3,000 new border hunters hired by the police in recent years, seven of the buildings needed for their placement have already been transferred, and the rest of the transfer is ongoing. The purchase of motor vehicles: In 2017, 2629 new vehicles were acquired by the police; in 18 additional 595 units, this acquisition continues. The age of police vehicles has decreased from 6.4 to 2.4 years, which is a European achievement. As far as the results of Miskolc are concerned, I congratulate the Miskolcs, the municipality of Miskolc County. I think it is very important to emphasise that the police are the primary responsibility for public order and public security, but it is very important to have the role of local authorities, to cooperate with local authorities, and to cooperate with the vigilantes. I can promise that the improvements will continue in 19 and 20, and we will do everything we can to protect the borders, to further improve these results. I can assure you of that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-25-74	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Member Tamás Csányi, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "Is there a more effective solution than expensive surface treatment? It's an address. Here you go.
u2019-03-25-75	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, In August 2016, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources for Social Affairs and Social Inclusion announced that HUF 91 billion was available for the continuation of the complex colony program. Károly Czibere said that community development is the essence of the settlement programmes involving charities, churches, civilians and municipalities. During the programme, social work tools are used to diagnose, identify problems, and then strengthen communities after mapping their own resources. Since the programme has been operating for many years with fewer and more costs, and the current proposals are coming to an end soon, we think that it may be possible to draw conclusions, to define the experience; perhaps, first, to see if this direction is right. Are complex settlement programs the best way to catch up with gypsies? Unfortunately, experience shows that this is not the case, this is far from the most effective method, since it affects a small proportion of Gypsy. Allow me to draw attention to some of the problems from experience. It is defined that these projects should involve churches and civil society organisations, but there is no great strain on the willingness to participate in these projects. Why? Unfortunately, the lack of consideration of the programme is also referred to by the fact that the expected executioners, case managers with social qualifications have not been mapped, so the implementation often has problems integrating the appropriate number of professionals into the project, so let us not talk about the ridiculously low nature of the benefits provided to them. Horribile dictu, participants also inform us of serious problems in relation to the attitude of the Ministry, there are almost unfulfilled indicators in the programme because of the above mentioned ones, inflexibility of office attitudes makes everyday work difficult, completely forgetting about human factors. During the long programme, there may be dropouts on both sides, which would jeopardise compliance. Finally, please respond, Secretary of State: has the diagnosis been established? Have problems and resources been identified and how do you intend to bring your integration policy to an effective level? Because so far, it's just a very expensive surface treatment. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-25-76	Thank you very much. With all due respect, I would like to ask everyone to respect the house rules in terms of the time frame as well. Secretary of State, please.
u2019-03-25-77	Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Even on the Jobbik.hu page, the past has not been completely abolished, honourable Member, for you. So from February 2013, your speech is up, which you said at the event of the New Hungarian Guard and other right-wing organizations, where you spoke about Gypsy crime, honourable Member. In other forums, he talked about the fact that although he often meets Gypsy people or lives among them many times, he does not find himself in a position to talk to them. And he told me that at school, if any of the kids lack equipment, it's a gypsy kid, and if someone doesn't come to school, it's a gypsy kid. That's how you came to appreciate what you had in mind about the gypsy people. No wonder, because Tamás Sneider's party president, thanks to whom you are sitting here in Parliament, said that Gypsies can come, I will kill everyone. He did that before. Of course, they are also part of the political emblem, unfortunately. So this concern, honourable Member, can be called even with the best of intentions a window of concern. You said the projects were coming to an end. Well, most of the three-year implementation period is only over a year, so we can't say that it's coming to an end. What we're trying to do is to get these impenetrable parts, where settlementally, primarily, Gypsy people live in very, very bad financial conditions, in houses without heating, windows, this negative spiral is somehow broken. Obviously, this cannot only be broken by a measure, an education, a health care, a social measure, but must be here among these people and help them to get out of this situation geographically and socially. So it means social and territorial integration, it is a completely innovative social project, because it is based on mutual learning. So we hope that in this way we will actually succeed in curbing this unworthy situation for these people in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-25-78	Dear Parliament, Member László Varga, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Finance:. How does the increase in investment affect the financial situation of municipalities? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-03-25-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As the Ministry of Finance often refers to, investments in Hungary are increasingly characterised by a shortage of labour, a drastic increase in construction prices, and, consequently, the absorption of budgets. I note that, by the way, this is also increasingly typical of private investment. At the same time, it is easier for the government to replace the missing financial resources for an investment than it is for a local government. According to press reports, local development with increasing EU resources has been in difficulty since the continuous increase in costs has made it impossible for municipalities to raise the necessary additional resources. In a situation like this, settlements can choose from several roads. The first is obviously to take out a loan, where appropriate, as a second, to think that they are unfortunately forced to cancel the investment, and thirdly I mention that in some cases the government provides additional resources, but often it does so late and slipping. I could say such a case, for example, in Miskolc, where some of the developments of the Modern Cities programme will just get to the stage of their departure in four years. And in these cases, it is also possible to discover the drastic discharge of costs. [[13.10]] Obviously, the current EU budget cycle is coming to an end, so an investment that must be cancelled by a municipality may threaten to lose its resources permanently. In view of all of this, I ask, Mr Secretary of State: in recent years, how many local governments have indicated to the government that they are forced to cancel EU-funded development? Secondly, how much has the government's debt increased since 2016? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2019-03-25-80	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Péter Cseresnyés, Minister of State for Innovation and Technology, who is competent and competent according to the subject, responds to the question. Here you go.
u2019-03-25-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, What it is difficult to do when the socialists are concerned about the finances of the Hungarian municipalities. I mean, it was your government that drove him into debt and made him impossible. [[Uproar, interruptions from the ranks of MSZP and DK.]] the municipalities and, after 2010, the Fidesz-KDNP government was the one that helped them. The government debt of HUF 1300 billion was fully consolidated between 2011 and 14 between 2002 and 2008. We have saved more than 2,000 settlements from bankruptcy or bankruptcy itself. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that this consolidated debt is almost identical to the amount of development resources provided for primarily municipal development under the operational programme for territorial and urban development. I think it is better for the opposition in this area, too, in particular, if they carry out a self-examination. As regards the consequences of the general increase in construction costs, you are not telling the truth when you claim that there are only two roads ahead of the municipalities. The government has provided a number of opportunities to deal with this phenomenon and condition. For example, we have allowed public sector organisations' applications to be eligible for additional costs for certain projects financed from EU funds, or there is also the possibility for local authorities to modify their technical content in accordance with the rules in force, thus reducing costs, but still meeting the main objectives of the project. It also shows that the government will help the project executives to carry out their plans, commitments and successful developments, because unlike you, we are really working on building a Hungary of viable settlements and successful municipalities. The performance of the Hungarian economy and the quality of life of Hungarian families [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] This program is also used for further improvement of the Modern Cities Programme and the Hungarian Village Programme, which is mainly implemented from domestic sources. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-25-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Oláh, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister a question, "When will we catch up with Romania?" It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Minister for Finance Mihály Varga, who is responsible for the subject, will answer the question. Here you go.
u2019-03-25-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I hear we want to catch up with Austria by 2030. However, according to the growth figures for the last eight years, this can only be achieved by 2076. To catch up to 2030, an annual average of 11,6 percent Hungarian growth would be required. Let's get back to the real world. In terms of economic performance, in 2010, we had five EU Member States behind us, and since then Latvia has arrived, Lithuania and Poland have preceded us. Four of the seven regions of Hungary are the poorest regions in the European Union, while only two of the eight Romanian regions are among the poorest. Bucharest and its surroundings have already preceded the Hungarian central region, including the capital. Transylvania is more advanced than the entire Hungary outside Budapest. In individual consumption, the country's well-being is measured, and in 2010 we were also ahead of five Member States, since then the three Baltic countries and even Romania have come before us. Behind us is Bulgaria. However, while this indicator is essentially stagnating with us, it has risen sharply with the Bulgarians, Mr Secretary of State. In terms of the health situation, this year we will only prevent Romania, just as well. Last year we had three other countries behind us, and in 2008 we were in the middle of Europe, ahead of Ireland, Italy and just behind the British. It is not patriotism to dream big, but to set ambitious, but realistic, attainable goals. You have rocked the country into a political dream world, but in nine years we have come no closer to the European average, but we have been brutally separated from our neighbours and regional competitors. However, European Hungarians deserve that their country should not be the poor house of the Union. So I ask Prime Minister, Mr Secretary of State, what are the government's plans to catch up with Romania again? Thank you very much.
u2019-03-25-84	Secretary of State, please.
u2019-03-25-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, I do not believe that you and the opposition are in the right place and in the right place for this policy of underestimating the performance of Hungarian people. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches, including: Speak normally! Zsolt Gréczy: We underestimate you.]] Just because the Hungarian economy increased by 5.1 percent in the fourth quarter of 2018, which has not been this large since our accession to the EU in 2004, and this is an outstanding achievement in the European Union as well. Hungary's financial indicators are stable, which give us the right to continue to benefit the country, the Hungarian people, in the future. At the same time, I would like to draw the Member's attention when he presents Romania as an example to read the European Commission's report on what he says about the Romanian economy. I'll give you four items. The Romanian economy will slow down considerably, as the European Commission says. [[Intercoms from the lines of MSZP and DK.]] In the last quarter of 18 he was already 4 percent behind Hungarian. The breakdown of balance processes characterizes the Romanian fiscal and economic policy, which is due to the fact that the general government deficit reaches 5 per cent of GDP and the balance of payments is in the same way. But the same is true of the inflation process, there will be 4.3 percent inflation in Romania this year, but Romanian people's saving habits are particularly interesting, as Romanians do not save everything but consume everything, their savings rate is negative against Hungarians, who have significant reserves and savings. Honourable Congressman, I propose to you [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] to value more the performance of Hungarian people, the Hungarian economy, Hungary. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. A statement from the ruling parties: That's right!]]
u2019-03-25-86	Dear Parliament, Before we go any further, on your behalf, let me welcome our compatriots from the village of Satan. I'm glad you're here. Good afternoon. Congressman Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:, How does the government plan to solve the problem of elderly care in the future? It's an address. Congressman, please.
u2019-03-25-87	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, According to the Hungarian Psychiatric Society, by 2050 there will be an elderly person living with dementia in every Hungarian family, and these people have worked for 30-40 years and paid for their social security, so they deserve to spend their last years in a manner worthy of man. The fact is that every Hungarian citizen who has taken his older relative into the institution knows precisely that the waiting lists, which are in such an institution, last for two or three years, and knows precisely that there is an incredible shortage of professionals in the nursing home, and that social workers working in the nursing home receive humiliating wages. I have four specific questions for the Secretary of State, and I hope that you will honour this subject by answering these questions in concrete terms. The first is: how does the Secretary of State explain that church institutions receive 1.8 times the standard in the nursing home compared to state institutions? Why does the government distinguish between older people and older people based on the institution it is going to? The second is, are you getting anywhere with the Social Workers' Union? Will there finally be a significant wage increase in the social sector, or will such a wage increase finally not be included in allowances, but in the basic wage in particular, or is there a plan to standardise social, pedagogical or health pay signs, making them at least interoperable at the level of education? [[13.20]] Furthermore, what are they planning to do to reduce these waiting lists, and to finally allow people who need to put their older relatives in such institutions to do so without waiting four to five years? The last question is, when will the care fee be increased from HUF 58,000 to HUF 100,000 for people who care for their elderly, sick relatives at home. These people don't deserve 58,000 forints, they deserve appreciation. Please answer these questions. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-25-88	Thank you very much. State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor. Here.
u2019-03-25-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If we look at average wage developments in the social sector, we can see that in recent years we have been able to increase by 130 thousand HUF per month on average. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: What? 130 grand? Péter Ungár: No!]] That's the amount a social worker can earn. That comes together from a lot of things. On the one hand, the 2014 sectoral wage supplement, the 2015 supplement, the 2016 social sector consolidated bonus, and the fact that 3,000 employees, who also have a health education, are paid under the health pay table, and the various professional wage increases and the like have obviously also increased the salary of skilled workers to a noticeable extent. Thus, the average salary has risen by an average of 130 thousand forints in recent years, and Fidesz-KDNP is the guarantee that it will continue to do so and increase, since before 2010, a monthly wage was taken from these people during the administration of your new ally, MSZP. There was an 8 percent wage drop, compared to that, the increase is now 130 thousand forints. But we also tried to expand the opportunities for home assistance, since the number of people who provided home assistance rose from 75,000 to 91,000, so there are a lot more, 15 thousand more people in home assistance now. They're being taken care of by a lot more. In the past, this was 5764 people, now 12 181, so much more people care for elderly people who can receive care in their homes. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: Answer the question, Secretary of State.]] The per capita care fee has also increased from HUF 145 thousand to HUF 210,000 in recent years. [[Péter Ungár: Why do church institutions receive more?]] The government grants equal support to all those involved in the care of the elderly on an equal footing. However, it is also important that the government raised the care fee by 30 percent overall and introduced the children's home care fee, the weed, which is all of the children's home care costs. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] for a parent, it means 100 thousand forints. This will continue to rise in the coming years. These were, of course, not voted by the opposition here in Parliament, and not supported on 12 December 2018. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-25-90	I'm asking the government members to follow the rules of the house. Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question: how does the Government intend to enforce the laws on environmental protection and nature protection against property developers often linked to Fidesz in the case of the cessation of free beaches in Balaton? It's an address. Here you go.
u2019-03-25-91	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, My previous question was not whether the investments of Fidesz near Fidesz companies would bring development to the Lake Balaton. My question was whether the state would be able to control the projects of greedy oligarchs, whether these damage to nature would have consequences. Will there be consequences, Mr. Secretary? Or the Balaton will only be reserved for the privileged, who can build and slowly go to Lake Balaton, because this summer there are less than 20 free beaches on Lake Balaton. This makes it impossible for less-income, holiday-seeking swimmers to relax, as many families cannot afford tens of thousands of HUF daily beach passes. You like to think in a big family, in three children with two parents. Calculate how much you will have to pay for a day with an entry of approximately HUF 3-4 thousand. The exclusion of families with lower incomes has already begun, according to the 2018 survey of Závecz Research, this ratio is only increasing as age increases and income decreases. According to one survey, 88 percent of the elderly, low-status people living in the village have not been on Lake Balaton for five years; according to current processes, fewer Hungarians seem to have an opportunity. Dear Secretary of State, Why is public money pouring into the camping and hotels of Lőrinc Mészáros and not to renovate and maintain free beaches with public money? Thank you for your answer.
u2019-03-25-92	Mr Sándor Farkas, State Secretary, responds. Here.
u2019-03-25-93	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman! I am pleased to inform you that there have never been so many tourists at Lake Balaton as there were almost 2 million guests in the commercial accommodations in Balaton last year. I think it speaks for itself. [[Lajos Korózs: There were ten billionaires!]] In Balaton, both domestic and foreign guests increase significantly year after year [[Lajos Korózs: And so comes the guest night!]] but for all the guests in the region, domestic traffic is dominant, and three quarters of them arrive from the home country. [[Lajos Korózs speaks to Gábor Bányai.]] In 2018, from more than 6 million guest nights at Lake Balaton, domestic guests spent 4 million and foreign guests spent 2 million guest nights. Honourable Congressman, After Balaton Budapest, the second most important tourist area in Hungary and the most popular summer destination of Hungarians. In recent years there has been a change of approach in domestic tourism, focusing on quality tourism, and this change is also served by developments in the sector. In the Kisfaludy programme, the accommodations of the Balaton area are renewed, new hotels and pensions are also built. Last year 11 Balaton adventure parks and 55 beaches were renewed, and this year further beach development starts from HUF 3 billion. The free beaches in Balaton are renewed in the continuation of the beach development program. In the framework of the operational programme for economic development and innovation, nearly 20 development projects will take place over the next two years, worth more than HUF 20 billion at Lake Balaton. Among other things, cycling paths, networks, cultural and active tourist attractions and the development of spa facilities are implemented. With the support of the Government of Hungary, the Community shipping in Balaton is entering a new phase, and the long-awaited development of Mahart's ships, ports and local ferry transport is also possible. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-25-94	Thank you very much. Congressman Péter Ovádi, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Prime Minister's Office: When can the Veszprém people take possession of the new sports swimming pool under the Modern Cities Programme and the enlarged Veszprém Arena? It's an address. It's for Congressman Ovadi. Here you go.
u2019-03-25-95	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, The impressive performance of the Hungarian economy has enabled Hungary's largest urban development project to be launched under the Modern Cities programme, which, thanks to its significant development, facilitates the lives of millions of people. The programme is the largest rural development programme in Hungary, with the support of nearly HUF 1000 billion for the county-righted cities, with two thirds of the amount to support Hungary's Government for the metropolitan cities of Hungary. This figure could reach HUF 1500 billion in 2019. However, this has not always been the case. After all, we remember the period of socialist governance, when, at the threshold of total indebtedness, urban development of such or at least similar size could not have come up even as a stray thought. Luckily, it's all in the past. In addition to several investments, a number of sports-related developments are also expected in Veszprém, thanks to which not only a new sports swimming pool, but also an enlarged Veszprém Arena with a capacity to accommodate 8500 people, will be occupied by athletes and fans as well. The Arena will be waiting for the winner as a venue for the European Handball Championship in 2022. Thanks also to the fact that, as in recent years, the government will continue to see sport as a strategic sector, while supporting competition and leisure ports, the development of facilities is one of the most important objectives. Thanks to the programme, not only in Veszprém, but in all cities with county rights, the most targeted investments have been made so far. Dear Secretary of State, Veszprém is looking forward to the sports development within the framework of the programme "Modern Cities". In view of this, I would like to ask when the Veszprém people can take possession of the new sports swimming pool and the enlarged Veszprém Arena under the programme "Modern Cities". I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-25-96	State Secretary Balázs Orbán responds. Here you go.
u2019-03-25-97	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, as you have mentioned, the Modern Cities programme is the largest urban development program in Hungary's history. Since its launch in 2015, it has been an unprecedented development opportunity for 23 cities with county rights. The total cost of the programme is expected to be around HUF 3700-3800 billion at the moment. This will allow cities with county rights to develop for economic, cultural, sports, leisure, urban rehabilitation, education, tourism and other purposes. [[13.30]] Up to this point, we have paid HUF 1374 billion, or more than one third of the total budget, to the supported settlements. Two thirds of these resources are domestic budget resources and the rest are EU funding. According to Veszprém, one of the biggest winners of the programme is the "Modern Cities" programme, as it receives HUF 74 billion of funding within the programme, of which until now the payment has been nearly HUF 17 billion. The city has good results, as besides winning the title of the cultural capital of Europe in 2023, in 2022 it will be able to hold a man's handball-EB. Congratulations to the settlement. Each event will provide additional resources, while the city is also at the forefront of the Modern Cities programme. You have also mentioned the expansion of the Veszprém Arena and other developments that include it. According to the planned schedule, the public procurement procedure will start in autumn 2019, the implementation will start in 2020 and the Veszprém Arena will be available to the team in its renewed form from the end of 2021. The process of building the swimming pool in Veszprém is further advanced, further subsidies were provided this time by the government, and we believe that the project's expected completion deadline is the end of 2020. So the programme "Modern Cities" is raging, thank you very much for your support for this. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-25-98	Dear Parliament, Congressman Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: When and in what form will the independent hospital promised by Attila Móring József be completed in Marcali? It's an address. Congressman, please.
u2019-03-25-99	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Citizens living in the district of Marcali continue to regard the hospital and health situation as the most serious problem in the region. The Calvary of the Marcal Hospital began essentially in 2013, when it was made the site of the hospital in Kaposvár. After integration, the obstetric gynecology department was terminated, the number of active beds was reduced, and they created a situation where patients have to travel to Kaposvár more and more often to receive healthcare services. On 16 June 2018, in the Parliament, I asked the very clear question as to when the hospital would get its independence back, but the Secretary of State did not give an answer. In October, on a civil evening in March, Attila Móring József, elected MP of the region, gave the answer. He informed us about it, and I quote: "Down from Kaposvár at the beginning of next year, the hospital in Marcal will be independent again, but in order to attract doctors and health professionals, the city will also have to make sacrifices. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The year passed, independence still failed. As far as I know, Marcali's city leadership is ready to sacrifice, but no one on the government's side was looking for them. The question is, does the government really want to achieve the hospital's autonomy or does the Marcalians consider what Congressman said as just another unfulfilled promise, as well as a hospital CT or a helicopter landing? I respectfully ask the Secretary of State when and in what form the autonomy of the hospital in Marcal will be achieved, and in particular how it will be operated. I expect a concrete answer to the specific question; the Marcalians have a right to know what the government is up to. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-25-100	Thank you very much. Secretary Bence Rétvári responds.
u2019-03-25-101	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The state of the hospital in Marcali, its well-equipped facilities, the better the operation of which is clearly in the interest of the government, is also in the interests of the Marcalians, which is why the government has made several improvements over the past few years so that this hospital can function as much as possible. From nearly HUF 1.5 billion, the reconstruction of the surgical block has been completed over the past period, which also meant the construction of a new building, the renovation of old buildings, the purchase of medical machines, medical instruments, and the acquisition of IT tools, as I said, total value of HUF 1.5 billion. This was followed by the development of a psychiatric and addictological care network worth nearly HUF 12 million, followed by the improvement of the infrastructure development of the diagnostic and medical laboratory network. This was worth nearly HUF 61 million at the hospital in Marcal, where there is also a general medical ward, care department, hospice class, chronic medical ward, surgical ward and emergency care department. The precise administrative arrangements for organizing patient care there, the relationship with the Kaposi Mor Training Hospital, is the result of a very long, but several years of consultation on what is worth providing locally, because the most important thing is to be close to the patients, what requires a higher level of preparedness, a higher level of diagnostic background, which is obviously possible in a larger case-type hospital. These must be distributed between Kaposvár and Marcali in a proportion and administrative form in a way that is best for patients, the most optimal. Obviously, all I can tell you is that to improve quality, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] negotiations are ongoing to simplify sick roads, and the Member is very active in this, and when a decision is taken, a final decision is taken, we will be able to inform you and the Marcalians. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-25-102	Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Finance:. More and more accidents at work, no reduction in the number of labour irregularities. Here you go.
u2019-03-25-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to indicate that you have drawn a wrong conclusion from last year's inspection data from the OSH authority. You said this to me a few months ago, I might say, to my question on the same subject. I could say now, Mr. Secretary, that you have not been far-sighted or wrong, because the data do justify me, however sorry I am, because the number of serious accidents at work has increased in recent years, and the last year has been adapted to the trend that has marked the last five years, since the number of accidents at work is constantly increasing. According to your records, there were 24,000 accidents at work across the country last year, and 78 of them, unfortunately, died. Most serious accidents occurred mainly in the mechanical engineering industry or in the transport and storage sector, or are still a dangerous plant, by the way, construction, agriculture, but obviously more serious and more occupational accidents, as these statistics only contain cases of three days' loss of work. It is clear from your monitoring experience of the OSH authority in 2018 that nearly 73 percent of the audited employers have experienced a OSH irregularity, which is still considered to be a very high number, and in 2018 a large number of citizens have also reported to the authorities. On this basis, Mr Secretary, it can be said that in the last nine years in the world of work, they have not been able to substantially improve workers' safety and safety conditions, nor have they been able to create the minimum conditions that are essential for predictable and safe work. For all these reasons, what concrete measures are being taken to improve and improve working conditions? What are you doing to comply with and enforce labour rules? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you.
u2019-03-25-104	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Bodó, on your behalf, allow me to welcome the students of the Óbuda High School and the István Bibó High School of Hévíz, as well as the teachers' colleagues. I'm glad you're here. Good afternoon. Secretary of State, please.
u2019-03-25-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Congressman! From the data published by the OSH authority, it is clear that the number of serious work accidents has been around 170 in Hungary for years, despite the continuous increase in employment. According to last year's data, the proportion of irregular employers has decreased, suggesting improvements in working conditions. Mr President, Mr President, you did not mention the fact that last year our colleagues examined the working conditions of 15 percent or 40 thousand more workers. The number of complaints and announcements of public interest to the OSH authority also decreased by 14 percent. Obstruction of checks was only on a case-by-case basis and the Authority carried out the investigation in all such cases. Last year, more than 18,000 decisions were taken by the authority during its inspections, with which almost 74 thousand irregularities were resolved. In 550 cases, a fine was imposed, and I think it is very important, in addition to the control, that it has also helped with advice, and has answered over 7,000 questions. [[13.40]] In order to improve working conditions, the government has taken a number of measures, one of which is the most important OSH strategy, first created by the Fidesz government in 2001, but the national OSH programme was not implemented by the MSZP government. In 2016, we again put the objectives of the development of OSH into a strategy, which was announced by the government in 2016. The tasks set out in national OSH policy until 2022 are therefore intended to contribute to improving working conditions. Of course, the State has an important role to play in facilitating the implementation of occupational safety standards, but it is important to point out that, under the OSH Act and the relevant EU Directive, the employer is responsible for the implementation of the conditions for non-healthy and safe work. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-25-106	MEP László Hajdu, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Who and why do we hate renewable energy so much? It's an address. Congressman Hajdu has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-03-25-107	Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Secretary. Renewable energy has now become cheaper than fossil or nuclear energy. New energy is essentially a free energy source after a one-off investment. This one-off investment is becoming cheaper; for example, the price of solar cells has decreased to one tenth in recent years. By 2025, the price of solar energy is estimated at HUF 15-20 per kilowatt, while the price of the energy produced in Paks II is expected to be 3 times higher. The era of fossil energy is over, and the era of nuclear energy is falling, and the more forward-looking countries of the world are preparing for the future. The countries of Europe are giving up nuclear energy. By 2050, its energy needs will be covered by renewable sources in Germany, France, Denmark. China spends $1 billion on new energy projects. And even Saudi Arabia, which really lacks oil, spends $110 billion on installing solar panels. I would like to ask the Minister: why are we pushing the investment in Paks instead of switching to renewable energy? Is it reasonable, in view of the above, to impose a special tax on energy production at home with solar cells? Why is it good that in Hungarian terms the word "solum" arises solely in the context of the complaint of the Solar Battery Factory in Csorna also examined by OLAF? Thank you for your reply. [[Applause in the lines of DK and LMP.]]
u2019-03-25-108	Secretary of State Cherry, please.
u2019-03-25-109	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As a matter of fact, is that where the Democratic Coalition is really going to try to trick its electorate with free energy? Do any of you seriously believe that renewable energy is free of charge, quasi-free, after initial investment? You and DK are not only ignoring fundamentals such as depreciation, but also excluding the fact that energy production and use is not island-like, but also requires the construction, operation, maintenance and development of a national network. If renewable energy were indeed cost-free, as you say, then there would be no need for state incentives, the economy would be flooded with renewable energy investments on its own. On the other hand, the reality is completely different; in order to learn the facts, I recommend studying the evolution of energy prices in Germany or the supply of energy to France, where 58 nuclear power plants operate. It has also been exposed to its complaints about the limitation of renewable energy. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in Hungary the share of energy produced from renewable energy sources in energy consumption reached 14.2 percent in 2016. The guarantee of cheap electricity will continue to be Paks. In the balanced energy mix, which takes into account security of supply, we also have a major role to play in renewable energy sources, of course. Our aim is to ensure that the domestic solar power plant capacity, together with household-sized solar power plants, reaches 3,000 megawatts by 2022. In addition to safe and carbon-neutral nuclear energy in the energy mix, the other two major pillars come from climate-friendly sources. Please accept my answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-25-110	Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister: "Who and what remains of the Balaton after the Fidesz occupation and damage to nature? It's an address. The question will be answered by Minister of State Sándor Farkas, Minister of Agriculture, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, on behalf of the Prime Minister. Here you go.
u2019-03-25-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Let's talk again today about the sale of Lake Balaton, the natural damage to Lake Balaton. We agree that Lake Balaton is the number one resort for most Hungarian families, but it may have been. Just before the Fidesz government came to power, we were glad that we had been able to reverse eutrophication, stabilize water levels, and that there was legal regulation for the establishment of public green beaches on the shore of Lake Balaton, for everyone's pleasure. Now, however, we see that all this is being trampled into the mud. Holidays, coastal areas, campsites are placed in the hands of entrepreneurs near Fidesz. With hundreds of millions of EU funding, private yacht ports and luxurious hotels are built, even owning part of the water surface, despite all regulations. And the manual-controlled authorities are silently assisting. Even with the filing and filing, we can see that the cases are being smoothed out. And the horrifying examples follow one another. It's against regulations, mass wood cuttings, reed exterminating, beach uploading, mudling up violations without consequences. In addition, last year's amendment of the Lake Balaton Act removed a number of previous warranty elements, so the bulk is still coming. Therefore, I ask: how does the government intend to stop the sale of public green beaches? What do you do to ensure that moneymen and investors do not steal public beaches from people and destroy the natural life that still exists on the shore of Lake Balaton? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you.
u2019-03-25-112	Thank you. Secretary of State, please.
u2019-03-25-113	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You are not going to ask us these questions for the first time, and probably not for the last time. About Lake Balaton, it looks like yesterday's good weather has caused everyone [[A statement from Jobbik: It's because of the theft, Mr. Secretary, because of the theft.]] Your experience has already come up, so I suggest you use the right time as usual. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Seriously, indeed, regarding the various reed cuttings and tree cuttings that I said to you earlier, and to other Members, the district office of Veszprém County, is entitled to act and provide information, but I must say that according to the various provisions, the Agricultural Ministry is virtually unable to intervene in these matters, and it is not certain that it would be fortunate to intervene. However, I think it is important to emphasise that for decades there has been a nature conservation guard in the organisation of all national park directorates, in order to preserve, protect, prevent and detect acts of harm to nature and to prevent major damage. If nature conservation guards encounter any activity that violates the nature conservation interest in their task, they shall take appropriate measures. Public announcements shall be investigated and, in the event of an infringement, reported to the competent government office or investigative body in order to ensure that liability for damage to nature is enforced as soon as possible. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-25-114	Thank you very much. Congressman Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "If the walls of the ghettos ever break through, and there will be zombies' wars pouring out from there, there will be a great deal of trouble. Or why isn't the government stepping on the design drug front? It's an address. Congressman, please. [[13.50]]
u2019-03-25-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Recently, the Jesuit Roma and the Budapest Reformed Gypsy College held a conference on the terrible destruction of poisons called designer drugs. Now those who grew up on such incredibly fast and irreversibly physical, spiritual, moral decomp. We're in the last hour. Epidemicly spreading designer drugs will devour the future of Hungary's feeding, periphery-stricken regions. There are already a number of ghettos called euphemistically segregation, where the unintegrated state of existence has been fatally strengthened, beating the last nail into the coffin of integration. It is no coincidence that the church patrons of the event are talking about the coming of the second Trianon. We have often said that if the state withdraws from the peripherals, the processes in the no-go zones there promise a catastrophic collapse. Obviously, we wouldn't object to extremely harsh police action against undomeable drug distributors, but this is a symptom of a complex social problem. Why does the government not recognize that without the appreciation of the infinitely underpaid ordinary heroes of the bled social sphere, there is no chance of overcoming the troubles? Strengthening the education system could also be a protective wall, but the pedagogical society is not prepared to deal with the phenomena associated with the disintegration explosion. The intervention should start as early as possible, as the rate of return will decline sharply over time for the cumulative underprivileged layers. According to the conference, the state is not handling the threat in its place. When will you finally realize that, in turn, entire areas will disappear as a sinking Atlantis in the vortex of wreckage social collapse? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-25-116	Thank you. Secretary Bence Rétvári, here you go.
u2019-03-25-117	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think that in recent years, everyone has agreed that the spread of designer drugs within the drug problem is a particularly dangerous part, that drugs are already much faster, and that drug addicts are physically, mentally, downgraded much faster. And even within these, designer drugs are extremely dangerous, since they have effects that cannot be predicted, the exact components are not known; the physical changes that result from the course were even more dangerous, as it was even less predictable and visible. The Internet was full of videos where people in delirium behaved inappropriately to human dignity, because apparently they were under the influence of these designer drugs. In addition, they are cheaper than other drugs, thus making it easier to access. Besides, they also use multiple daily incomes, which are used to do so, so it is true that it is cheaper, but it is taken several times a day, so the overall cost is no less. But it's extremely dangerous. For this reason, the government is among the first in Europe, if not the very first in this case, and the previous drug regulation has been fully reformed. We have already introduced the strictest criminal law legislation against drug crime in Hungary in the new criminal code. Nor can you, honourable Member, I think that anti-drug legislation is more stringent than in Hungary. However, within all of this, we have made the facts about new designer drugs very fast, because on the one hand, we used to call that list a C-list, we can also call it a ban list containing the list of designer drugs, we have placed it in a ministerial decree, which is the fastest law that can be modified, so it can react to changes in the drug market as quickly as possible. On the other hand, we didn't put the material itself, but the standard formula in it, so whatever other additives they put next to it, they can't hide from the police, because they become criminal. In addition, we have planned a HUF 6 billion surplus for the development of the youth support network, and from various sources we have also provided an additional HUF 3 plus 2 billion for drug prevention to prevent the use of these drugs. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-25-118	Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. When will the shortage of the general physician be resolved in Hungary? It's an address. Here you go.
u2019-03-25-119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. The shortage of general practitioners is an increasing problem in Hungary, with growing areas and increasing numbers of people remaining without proper care in the country. True, two weeks ago, in B-week's instant questioning hour, I could not recall which minister, but he said that in Hungary it is not true that a patient would be left unattended because there are unfulfilled GP districts. We can see that the lack of GPs is becoming more drastic. At the beginning of the year, it was discovered that more than 422 GP areas were continuously unfilled. This means that more than 600,000 people in Hungary today do not have access to daily general medical care. If you look at the statistics, it is very clear that the lack of general practitioners is particularly drastic in small villages and disadvantaged areas. But here we also need to talk about the lack of pediatricians, and the fact that according to current data, 50 percent of pediatricians were 60 years old and one fifth were over 70 years old. But we can talk about the more than 400 districts where they can only replace the protective services on a daily basis. Secretary of State, it can now be said that in the last eight years you have only communicated on health care, but you have done nothing to prevent me from naming these data in March 2019. Mr Secretary of State, I know that we will be hearing again what has been happening in the last eight years of the socialists, and we should just take note, Mr State Secretary, that they have been ruling for the ninth year. For the ninth year, we've only heard lies about health, and here we're talking about patients dying every day because you don't govern, you're just communicating. When will this end, Mr. Secretary? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2019-03-25-120	Secretary Bence Rétvári, please.
u2019-03-25-121	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Everyone can compare what the socialist health policy was and what the Fidesz-KDNP health policy was; some of the voters have expressed their views in the last three elections. In the case of general medicine, you wanted to introduce a visitation fee so that people wouldn't go to a GP, and we increased the funding of GPs. In 2010, when you abandoned your government, there was an average of 867 thousand forints to finance a general medical practice, 867 thousand forints. The same is today HUF 1 million 596 thousand. So, instead of less than 900 thousand forints, it is nearly 1 million 600 thousand forints, from which a general practice can now be managed. Put in favour, Madam Member, of the visitation fee and of the fact that you have laid off 6,000 health workers and took a month's wages. If you look at it, although I know that comparing mathematics and numbers has been difficult for you lately, how much in 2010 [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Then on Thursday, at the public interest data request...]] he was a doctor in Hungary who had an operating licence, and he sees that 33 943. If you look at the same in 2017, you can find 39 132 doctors instead of 34,000. If you look at how many medical degrees were issued in 2010 in Hungary, you will find 1040, while in 2017 you will find 1521. So in the case of medical supplies, fortunately, we have been able to encourage young people to choose the medical career as many as possible, and in particular, we need to encourage graduates to choose the general medical career as many as possible. The establishment proposal, which grants a maximum grant of HUF 20 million, and the practice contest, which grants a maximum grant of HUF 4 million, has so far been attractive to 247 doctors in the case of the establishment proposal and 220 doctors in the case of the purchase of practices. Thus, we were able to provide dental care for 637 thousand residents and 250,000 people; and all Hungarian people's medical care, even through substitution, has been solved. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-25-122	Mr Lajos Oláh, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Why do they not want Europe to double the family allowance? Here you go.
u2019-03-25-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, One of the measures of the United States of Europe represented by DK, first imagined by Churchill, will be to tax multinationals and pay European family allowances to European families with the resulting money. The European family allowance will be uniform for all European families, whether Italian, Polish or Hungarian. The amount of this can be about 15 thousand forints, which for us Hungarians means that it will roughly double the current family allowance. [[14.00]] It is possible that in nine years you have not been able to raise it by a single forint. Ferenc Gyurcsány was the last one to lift this. Believe me, every Hungarian family will receive enormous help when they will receive 27-28 thousand forints each month, with the European family allowance instead of 12-13 thousand forints. I know that these amounts are small money for Fidesz billionaires living in luxury castles, but they would be a great help for decent Hungarian families, especially in the country where, according to Eurostat, every third child is poor; that is the case, Mr Secretary of State. Moreover, the European family allowance will not be delayed, as the Hungarian family allowance you referred to late, because it can be trusted in the European Union, unlike you. You can call the European united states a fever dream, you can call the European family allowance a fever dream, but everyone in this House knows that the fever dream is that we can be part of the EU for a long time. I represent my country, and it is in the interests of the country of the united states of Europe. But please tell me why you don't want Europe to double the family allowance. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2019-03-25-124	Secretary Bence Rétvári, please.
u2019-03-25-125	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The reality is that Europe is indeed increasing certain subsidies, but this is, for example, support for non-governmental organisations supporting migration: it has not been doubled, it has been tripled, and it has also increased expenditure on the organisation of migration, and only 10% of it has been allowed to be used by the Union to address the causes of migration. Honourable Congressman, The European Union's family policy is therefore not to support families, because when you took on an IMF loan and a European Union loan in Brussels in 2008, the condition was to cut off family support and you agreed to do so. [[Peter Cseresnyés: That's right!]] When Brussels was able to comment on Hungarian family policy, it was 2008-2009, and they were the victims of the Hungarian families. Then they took me away from the Hungarian families, and now they keep giving more and more to immigrants. Only Germany pays HUF 17 billion a day for social expenditure on immigration, and you would transfer this policy to Hungary to be taken from families and taken from farmers and given to immigrants. Honourable Congressman, The Union has, of course, never increased such subsidies anywhere, but it seems that you and Jobbik are marching so far that Jobbik thought that European wages would be raised in Brussels. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: What are you talking about? You're a clown!]] And you think it's any kind of family allowance. Well, that's not true, Your Honour. Hungary has a unique family support system. What Ferenc Gyurcsány, Péter Medgyessy and all politicians with MSZP and SZDSZ took, for example, the third year child or the tax allowance for the first and second children, the Fidesz-KDNP government returned to these families. You have returned to these people, to which your allies have told us that this is a policy quoting the rhetoric and world of the 1930s, and that children's education is too high, so let's not support child rearing. You gave the Hungarian families 15 times the amount of money together with the European Union [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] , while Fidesz-KDNP reduces the overhead. That's how much your plans can be based on any future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-25-126	Thank you very much. Ms. Erzsébet Schmuck closes today's line of questions, and she is.. What work is being done to prepare for the decommissioning of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant units 1-4? What is the timetable, what costs are expected and what will cover it? He's asking me with an address. Here you go.
u2019-03-25-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Back in 2005, a parliamentary decision provided for the extension of units 1-4 of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant by 20 years. Since then, 14 years have passed, and the end date of the extensions is approaching. For each block, it's 2032,, 34 and 36 and 37 respectively. I therefore assume that you too consider the question to be justified, why there is little to say about the preparations to be made for the period following the end of the operating hours of these blocks, since the planning, construction and operation of such facilities is not only a big and responsible task, but there is a lot to be done after they have ceased to operate. In addition, we also know that the cost of launching and decommissioning a block is huge. There are experts who approach the overall costs of decommissioning to the costs of setting up. The amount paid so far in the Central Nuclear Fund is low compared to the expected costs. There are a lot of questions about output, but perhaps the most important thing is how it stands, what schedule and procedure is in place to prepare for Paks's four blocks to stop operating and get out of the electricity system. What about waste classified in different categories, including high-activity waste? Will current developments provide sufficient capacity for safe disposal of waste from low and medium radioactivity? And last but not least, what will be the cost of decommissioning these blocks, of disposing of waste? Is there a current cost plan for this? And what will cover the work? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-03-25-128	Thank you, too. State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-03-25-129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Yes, there is a plan, because I do not think that you are studying the documentation properly, or you are asking the questions in the wrong place. As far as Paks is concerned, we hear nothing else from you, but continuous, non-alterable, infertile criticisms, sometimes false and terrifying rumors, as well as serious slippages that attempt to question the existence of the power plant. These rumours, of course, prove to be ducks one by one. This line also includes the previous statement that there is no cover for the decommissioning of the blocks, which must be corrected again. Hungary has a national programme for the treatment of spent fuel and radioactive waste in accordance with the EU Directive. Small and medium-activity waste generated by the operation and subsequent decommissioning of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant will be received by the National Radioactive Waste Storage in Bátaapát. The necessary storage capacities should be created by the appropriate expansion of this facility. The final disposal of high-activity and long-lived radioactive waste and spent fuel should be resolved in a stable deep geological storage. The timing of the plans and tasks for this purpose is described in detail in the national programme. In order to cover the costs incurred for the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel from the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and the implementation of the tasks related to the decommissioning of the facility, the Paks Nuclear Power Plant should make an evenly distributed payment to the Central Nuclear Financial Fund, which amounts to ten billion per year until the end of the operating period. An important principle of depositing obligations is that we do not leave undue burdens on future generations. Therefore, the deposit [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The measure was determined to cover fully all costs incurred during the nuclear power plant's operational period and by final disposal of radioactive waste from final decommissioning, temporary storage of spent fuel and the closure of the nuclear fuel cycle. Excuse me, Mr. President, for the little delay. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-25-130	Thank you. Dear Parliament, With this answer, we move to immediate questioning time. Dear Parliament, Congressman Tamás Csányi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2019-03-25-131	Yes, I accept, thank you very much.
u2019-03-25-132	You have the floor. Here you go.
u2019-03-25-133	Mr President, Dear House, As we've been getting used to lately, you've been taking on multi-annual cases to discredit Jobbik, in your media, where James Weeks and Varga-Damm-days are held, and then asking each other here in Parliament, with concern, how this is possible, what can be done here. Really, how is it possible, while we're at it, that you've missed a much more pressing problem than these cases? János Pócs, Fidesz MP, in a recent video, attempts to burn a Gypsy man and even to burn more. We were very excited that either Felix Farkas or Flórian Farkas, speaking against Tamás Sneider on 18 February, would break the stunning silence of silence, and would otherwise rightly ask for this racist-motivated video, what he saw in it, before the agenda. It didn't happen. With all due respect, why? And János Pócs can be a big tart for you, because as a true tabloid politician, he postes about a pig with Soros, and a little drunk, you insulted a lady at a nightclub, and in the spirit of great national Christianity, he jokes about the birth of Jesus. I'm sure you could continue the line, but we don't want that. [[14.10]] Just as we do not want such politicians to undermine the authority of Parliament, the Hungarian Parliament. Therefore, I respectfully ask how long they will tolerate János Pócs among their ranks. How long are you guys gonna hit this problem with Pudgy action? How long will Fidesz assist in the activities of such representatives? Do you guys have all the room? Please answer me properly. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-25-134	Mr Mihály Varga, Deputy Prime Minister, has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-03-25-135	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, In a time of immediate questions, Members of Parliament and members of the government in general [[Péter Ungár: You've never done this before!]] on the task related to government work... [[An uproar in opposition ranks. Péter Ungár: The Daily Demeter?]]
u2019-03-25-136	[[Without microphone:]] Strange as it may be, Michael Varga has the word, and I...
u2019-03-25-137	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I would like to continue. Thus, during the immediate questioning period, the actors of the government are usually asked about issues related to government work and tasks, and the Member has now deviated from this. It is not my office and my duty to answer on behalf of the particular group or group, but I can tell you, Congressman, if you have been watching the news, then the Fidesz Group in a communiqué has called the video which has been made public unlucky. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the opposition. Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: This announcement was not fortunate!]] I would also ask you to speak to Mrs Bangón, because she would like to speak very highly. [[Defiance.]]
u2019-03-25-138	Thank you very much, thank you very much. This isn't a wish show, it's an immediate question.
u2019-03-25-139	I'm just making a suggestion, Mr. President. Think about it.
u2019-03-25-140	Very good, I'll consider it. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Before you put a sign in the air!]]
u2019-03-25-141	So I personally share the group's position, and making this video was unfortunate. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-25-142	Mr. Csányi has a rebuttal answer.
u2019-03-25-143	Thank you for the floor. Unlucky is a very euphemistic expression. It is outrageous and scandalous, and the work of the government is judged by the fact that such representatives can sit here in the Hungarian Parliament. [[Noise, interruptions.]] In fact, there have been countless times in our case that we could have had similar ones, which we wanted to push back a little bit. But I guess the fact that Fidesz's number two gasman is threatening to burn gypsy people in a boiler is okay with you. At least he's unlucky, isn't he? But we can't be surprised at that, because there are no more extreme parties in Hungary today than Fidesz. We know very well that an old man of Jewish origin was used to create an enemy image, and in 2018 50 billion forints were spent in government communication. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Simicska is not the only one who bought you!]] And speaking of the past, and we have already had a procession with Mr Secretary of State on this matter: I have taught the Gypsy youth for many years, unlike your representative, who wanted to do something quite different. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári:...you've been gypsying yourself! The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] We can't identify with that. We're going to press charges in this case. Please take the appropriate, necessary steps, and that is what all well-spoken Hungarians expect you to do. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Crying out of Jobbik's ranks: That's right! That's right!]]
u2019-03-25-144	Thank you. You're next in a minute, if you'd like to reflect, Deputy Prime Minister.
u2019-03-25-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think we could hold a separate debate on the anti-Gypsy and minority manifestations that Jobbik has made so far in recent years. [[An uproar in Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right! Tamás Csányi himself! Nacsa Lőrinc: Like this, like this!]] I must say, Congressman, it is rather shameful that when these matters came up in a row, you did nothing. I'd just like to point out [[Interview from Jobbik: János Pócs can sit here!]] If I remember correctly, there was a young man sitting in the ranks of your party who spit in it here on the Danube, not far from us. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: He's not sitting here anymore!]] from Parliament to the shoes of the memorial there. [[György Szilágyi: János Pócs wants to burn Gypsies and sit among you!]] So I'm gonna have to tell you to sweep your own house first, and then ask us. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. György Szilágyi: Great Christian Democrat, he talks about Jesus!]]
u2019-03-25-146	Dear Parliament, Everyone's wish should be fulfilled as quickly as the Deputy Prime Minister's, because now Ildikó Bangóné Borbély is next. [[Delight and applause.]] Who's the one who's still gotta happen? Mr Varga appointed Deputy Prime Minister Mihály as an answer to his urgent question. Will the congresswoman accept it?
u2019-03-25-147	Sure.
u2019-03-25-148	Here you go.
u2019-03-25-149	Thank you very much, Mr President, and I am particularly pleased that the Minister will answer me in case I get a more professional answer from the Secretary of State, since you have just made personal, Mr Secretary of State. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The congresswoman never!]] Last week, my colleague Korózs began his speech before the agenda by reading news about the health problems of the last quarter. Then allow me, Minister, to read some of the last week's news. First of all, the sad reality: Hungary is leading in early deaths caused by major diseases with regard to cancer, cardiovascular deaths. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The second news is that the EU average is less than social benefits in Hungary, including health benefits. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The third news is that the Honvéd Hospital produces a debt of HUF 44.2 million a day. The debt of the Honvéd Hospital increased by HUF 1.2 billion from January to February, which means HUF 2.2 billion at the end of February. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The fourth news is to disprove Mr. Secretary of State in what he said to me in his recent reply:, The practices in Hungary do not sell for ten forints. This is the January 2019 news. In a small town in Transdanubia, the general doctor has been selling his practice for ten forints for over a year, but no one has to. The GP was 72 years old. Doctors' cords are alarming, there are places where the doctor practices at 84 years of age, only because if he quits his practice, there would be no doctor in the settlement. Mr. Secretary. Twenty-four thousand patients die in Hungary each year, and Minister Kásler acknowledged this because he does not receive proper medical care; not because his illness justifies it, but because he does not receive the care. This means that in your time, over 200,000 patients died in a way that could have been saved. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] When are you gonna do something about health? I am asking positively, Minister, when will it be when the material of the profession is accepted and intervene so that these 24,000 patients do not die every year. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2019-03-25-150	Deputy Prime Minister, please.
u2019-03-25-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you for asking. It's not 24,000, but it's too bad for one person to die if it depends on the functioning of the health care system. So I agree with you that the managers of Hungarian health care must do everything possible to ensure that the available human resources and technical tools can be used as much as possible to care for patients and to cure people. However, let me deny and argue with your claim that nothing has happened in recent years, because if nothing had happened, we would have spent about one third of what we spent this year on health care. In case you have not noticed, Congresswoman, there has been a doubling in recent years, a significant increase in the share of budget support for health, a very significant part of EU funding is being used for this very purpose. I can tell you that there is no hospital in Hungary today that has not received support from any national or European Union source in recent years either for the renewal of the building or for the purchase of technical equipment or medical instruments. In addition, we have tried to focus on human resources, as wage increases have been made in the health sector in recent years that have not been seen before. In the past, it was an example that if the problem of health was raised under socialist governments, honourable Member, it always prepared a way to privateise certain parts of health. This is not the case now: we have declared that this is a state task, a state obligation, and to this end we are investing much more in this area of health than before. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-25-152	The congresswoman's next in a minute.
u2019-03-25-153	Thank you, Minister. That was a little more professional than the Secretary of State. But the minister wasn't there when I told him that: 422 practitioners are missing today, this has increased by 40 in the last year; 600 thousand people don't have access to general health care on a daily basis [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Everyone gets it!]] more than half of the pediatricians have spent 60 years and one fifth of the 50 years; in the protection zones, in 400 districts, they can only replace the care and service. Mr. Secretary. The great truth is that Hungary is also news, I didn't want to bring it up, but you know, when a 17-year-old child dies at the Western Railway Station only because the ambulance doesn't get out of the next street; or it's also news that in most cases there are amputations in Hungary today because there is no one to perform these surgeries. There are constant scandals in the daily media so [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] That most of the media is in your hands. When, really, do they realize how much trouble it is, Minister?
u2019-03-25-154	Thank you. Mr. Vice Prime Minister will be with you in a minute. [[14.20]]
u2019-03-25-155	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Member, in response to the first part of your question or your rejoinder: in 2016, a multi-stage wage-raise process was launched that is trying to keep and attract the workers we need in the health sector. You can't deny that. In this connection, I would like to say to you that, as a result of the wage increase, the workers' wages increase by 65 per cent in the period 2016-19; by 65 per cent, Congresswoman. You are right, there are areas where there is a shortage of workers, a shortage of professionals in health care, as well as in the education system, in construction and agriculture. Let's not confuse that, Congresswoman. We can slow this down and slow it down if there's a wage increase here. We agreed on this, we kept the pace of it, and even brought up wage increases last year. On the other hand, I think that if there is a human error in a particular case, such as the one you mentioned, then the public administration has acted within the appropriate framework. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-25-156	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. Are you apologizing to Fidesz criminals for not joining the European Public Prosecutor's Office? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Pál Völner as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I'll ask the congressman if he'll take it.
u2019-03-25-157	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2019-03-25-158	Yes, please.
u2019-03-25-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The opposition parties, including the Democratic Coalition, have reported on several occasions against Fidesz politicians or the most loyal prosecutor or the Fidesz central bank president, but the most faithful prosecutor, the former Fidesz candidate, Péter Polt, has repeatedly rejected them. At the same time, the operation of the Orbán prosecution is characterised by offering suspects and accused persons an opportunity to seek testimony against politicians who do not like them and which are at risk to them, with a view to a lighter assessment. One of the most striking scandals has recently been the crime of the Prime Minister, Viktor Orbán's son-in-law, in which the EU's fraud office has sent over closed investigative material to establish damage of HUF 13 billion, at the same time indicating theft in the criminal organisation as a fact. Despite this, the prosecution led by Péter Polt did nothing. One of the most important advantages of the European United States, also announced by DK in the wake of Churchill, is that we will join the European Public Prosecutor's Office, so that we will not be able to excuse the fidesz criminals, the thieves of our money. In corruption cases, the European prosecution will condemn members of the Orbán family. So I ask Mr Secretary of State: how many Fidesz criminals are excused from joining the European Public Prosecutor's Office by the Orbán government? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-03-25-160	State Secretary Pál Völner is next in two minutes.
u2019-03-25-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The United Kingdom, Ireland, Denmark, these countries are not members of the part of cooperation in justice and home affairs that could, for example, support the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Accusing them of fidesz bias, I think it's a strong exaggeration. Sweden, Poland, Hungary, which did not join, and throughout the debate, have made proposals that would have made accession to the EU Prosecutor's Office acceptable if it had not violated the sovereignty of the Member States. There is a vision in Europe that has set itself the abolition of the sovereignty of nation states. You are a great supporter of this, and you have even put the wishes of the United States of Europe on their flag. But it is clear that there are Member States that do not support this. There are political formations that also do not support this. As regards the part of the question, how the prosecution works and how effective it is: cooperation with Eurojust and OLAF is excellent. For example, we also apprehended the person who was recently arrested in the Syrian terrorist case in cooperation with Eurojust. Perhaps in cooperation with OLAF, Mr President, the stakeholders of a number of left-wing formations can talk a lot about the 4th metro investment, which has been explored in close cooperation with OLAF, where perhaps the largest amount has been sunk in recent years. The proceedings are ongoing in these cases. Thus, the Hungarian prosecution itself can act effectively, in cooperation with existing organisations. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-25-162	Thank you. Congressman, we have a one-minute rejoinder.
u2019-03-25-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Of course, Mr Secretary of State did not respond to the situation with the Elios scandal. We are talking about Viktor Orbán's son-in-law, who was accused of a crime in a 13 billion forint criminal organization by Elios And your fidesz friend, the most loyal prosecutor, who was your candidate, has not initiated any proceedings. Think about it, Mr. Secretary of State, what would have been the reverse case, if, say, we were to govern, we would have a general prosecutor who would have been a candidate for office from our party, and that would have prevented legal proceedings concerning the Prime Minister's son-in-law. At the same time, I would also like to point out that DK is not going to let this go, but is going to request the Elios documents through the committees of the European Parliament, which you are trying to hide from the Hungarian public, and, of course, we are going to work to put Fidesz criminals in jail. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-03-25-164	Mr. Secretary of State will be rejoined. Here you go.
u2019-03-25-165	Thank you very much. I didn't want to get into this, but you're talking about criminals. Gábor Simon, Miklós Hagyó, György Hunvald, Csaba Czeglédy, Miklós Tátrai, Zsolt Császy I can refer to all names who have been convicted of corruption cases launched during your administration and who have been prosecuted. Just how to deal with accusations. Because you mentioned names in connection with the Elios case, which you have received several times in Parliament's benches, either from the representatives of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office or from the managing authority supervising the investment, the Ministry of Chief Management. Technically, you're confusing the fact that a technical competence and a crime are identical or different. At least it was clear to me from the answers that they could not process this kind of distinction. Thus, the fact that an EU cost cannot be accounted for does not constitute a criminal offence in itself. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-25-166	Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "When does the government intend to take substantial steps to curb climate change and its negative effects? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding.
u2019-03-25-167	I'll wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-25-168	Best of luck to you in the meantime. Then Mr.Péter Ungár will be given the opportunity, the representative of the LMP, who wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. When does the government plan to adapt the social pay table to health? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State for his response to an urgent public mission. I am interested to ask the Member whether he accepts the Secretary of State's identity.
u2019-03-25-169	I'd like to wait for the Minister, if possible. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-25-170	Then I have nothing to do but address another of your representatives, Mrs Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, who wishes to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question:. Why do the banks that are dear to NER fall in line? It's an address. The President of the Hungarian National Bank appointed Mr.István Nagy as Vice-President for his response because of an urgent public task. I will ask the congresswoman if she will accept the Vice-President's identity as a response.
u2019-03-25-171	Mr. President, thank you, I don't accept it. I'm sorry Mr. Vice President came in unnecessarily. I'd like the President of the Central Bank to answer my question personally. Thank you.
u2019-03-25-172	According to our order, then I will ask Congressman Antal Csárdi, a representative of the LMP, who wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:, How long will the government cover the parking mafia in Budapest? Two with a title. I have nothing to ask you, because you have two lines in front of you, the Minister, who is going to answer at the moment as Minister of Finance. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-03-25-173	Thank you very much for the floor. On 1 March 2019 István Tarlós said in his interview on the Reply Online News Portal that, in connection with the blocking of the parking mafia in Budapest, this was one of my requests that Prime Minister István Tarlós could not fulfill. Is it true or lies, as István Tarlós said? Did the Hungarian government really say no to stopping the parking mafia? Thank you very much.
u2019-03-25-174	Mr. Secretary will be here in two minutes. Here you go.
u2019-03-25-175	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for asking. May I remind you that we had a similar kind of debate here a week ago, exactly last week from Tuesday to Wednesday. [[14.30]] Then we agreed, or at least I think, that your support, too, may have earned that connecting the parking machines to the NAV will be an important step in how to make the operation of parking companies more precise and disciplined. I cannot speak on behalf of Mayor István Tarlós, on behalf of the government. The government sees it as one of the key solutions to the situation if we have direct, live contact with these parking machines with regard to the NAV. Of course, not everyone pays the parking fee in this way, as you can pay such a fee through a mobile device. I think that there is less potential for abuse here, because this alone means an electronically verifiable process. But if you would be kind enough to support the adoption of this tabled bill and this could enter into force, then I think we are taking a significant step in the direction of eliminating the possibility of parking abuses in all aspects of the future. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-25-176	Congressman Csárdi's rejoinder in a minute.
u2019-03-25-177	Thank you very much. Dear Minister for Finance, The thing is, it's unviable, and the very proposal to connect the parking machines to the online system confirms that you had to talk about the activities of the parking mafia at a government meeting. As a result, I think that I and any citizen in this country should be able to answer the question whether Viktor Orbán and the Government of Viktor Orbán have actually said no to curb the parking mafia. Because I would like to make it clear that if you dare to claim that the online connection of parking machines solves this problem, then you in the government, and unfortunately you in the Ministry of Finance, are not aware of the least of the situation that has arisen in the environment of parking operations in Budapest. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-25-178	Mr. Secretary, in a minute, if you'd like.
u2019-03-25-179	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, Although he has not yet proposed the government's order of business and negotiating topics, assuming that the government is doing its work according to some system, and in recent years, if he has been paying attention, he has seen that after the connection of the retail units, restaurants, by building the EKÁER system, by connecting the life-drink machines, we are taking steps one after another that are becoming more and more... [[György Szilágyi: And the casinos.]] That's gonna happen, don't worry, Congressman. I know you might be in a casino, I don't know if you're really worried about casinos. So to conclude, I think the most important thing is that we can reduce the opportunities for the black economy as much as possible, and we will eliminate these opportunities as much as possible. That's what we've been doing all these years. I can also tell Congressman that this connection may not solve all the problems, because in today's world, the Pentagon system is also being hacked, Mr President, but perhaps we can agree that this is a significant step. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-25-180	Thank you. Well, we have now arrived to ask Mr Sándor Burány, a representative of the Dialogue, who wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What does the EMMI support? Mr Varga has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Mihály as the Prime Minister's representative in response to an urgent public task, whether he accepts the person of the responder. [[Sándor Burány: Yes.]] Here you go.
u2019-03-25-181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, The title of a popular book on religious subjects is "What God Was Looking For in My Living Room." On this basis, we might well ask the question of a recent news report: what is Minister Kásler doing in our bedroom? As a matter of fact, according to a press report, EMMI has supported a course in which participants were obliged to receive medical training in a letter of intent that they do not support any form of artificial insemination, that they do not prescribe or set up contraceptive pills, that they do not use, that they do not set up birth control devices or that they do not set up condoms. They do not perform or participate in artificial abortions. More than HUF 20 million is wasted on this kind of training, which also requires the promotion of a highly controversial method in the profession. I can't comment on the details of this now, in the absence of time. However, I would be interested to know why the state is involved in such an amazing operation with more than HUF 20 million. Why does the state basically support the elimination of all family planning methods and tools, eliminating virtually family planning? In this context, why does the state and Minister Kásler think that it is a good idea to ban condom use, while it does not simply prevent unwanted pregnancy in today's world, but also defuse deadly diseases and sexual diseases by using it? What does the state offer families who want to, but for some reason, can only have children with medical help? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Car-Cake Olivio applauds.]]
u2019-03-25-182	At some point in the question, we have all taken an interest in our heads, but now, instead of Prime Minister, Minister, he can get himself to answer. Here you go.
u2019-03-25-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for asking. As a family father with four children, I am also following closely what steps are being taken to tackle infertility management, elimination or barrier to infertility. Perhaps you agree with me or with government representatives that as many barren couples as these people can expect so many solutions, so many kinds of help. I would like to inform you that the Hungarian government has spent 7 billion forints in recent years to support medical or medical devices for the treatment of infertility and to broaden its medical possibilities. I think this job, as long as the number of barren couples is so large and high, should continue. What you're talking about is completely different, but it's only slightly related to that. What we want here is to help and support couples who approach this issue on a Catholic or religious basis, let us say. This charity service is supported by EMMI, the Ministry. But how this charity itself uses money falls entirely within the competence of this civil society association or Catholic organization. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We don't have a say in this. Isn't it two minutes, Minister? Or Mr. President. [[Dr. István Hiller intervenes. Defiance.]] Yeah, okay. If there are new habits and new practices in this House, I will tolerate that, Mr President. You're the president, not me. The only thing I knew from the house rules was that there were two minutes for the first round answer.
u2019-03-25-184	We have discussed this issue, and you are right. It was only a minute or so.
u2019-03-25-185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Then let me finish. So how and how this organisation uses this support is entirely within their purview. Just as we do not interfere with the use of other subsidies to civil, religious communities. The Hungarian legislation in force must be complied with, but otherwise this is their jurisdiction. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-25-186	Congressman's rejoinder in a minute.
u2019-03-25-187	Thank you very much. The methods the Catholic Church intends to promote family planning among its adherents would not open a debate about this in Parliament; what the state supports with tens of millions of forints, but it does. Once again, Minister, this course obliges participants not to support or participate in any form of artificial insemination. There are many families in Hungary who want as many children as there are ministers, but there is some kind of health issue that medical science can help. Here, in this course, for tens of millions of HUF, they support people who give up these devices globally. It's an amazing waste of public money, taxpayers' money. But anyway, that's not all this class is about, and it's not just about family planning. What does Minister recommend to young people who have an active sex life, but do not want to catch any STDs. What's your defense? If you could just tell me.
u2019-03-25-188	Deputy Prime Minister's rejoinder in a minute. [[14.40]]
u2019-03-25-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I didn't take this course. [[Defiance.]] so I do not know exactly what information or information was given in this course, but let us not rule out that, let us say, the whole money was not spent entirely on this course. So once again, the Hungarian government has no role or business to play in the operation of a specific association or organisation, so let them decide what is most effective. I believe that you cannot deny that such support can also be given to communities organised on a church basis, which may think differently from your thinking about dealing with infertility or changing this practice. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-25-190	Congressman Gyula Budai, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: what means can be used to deal with another corruption case involving socialists? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Pál Völner as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I will ask Congressman Budai if he will accept the person who is responding.
u2019-03-25-191	Thank you, I accept.
u2019-03-25-192	Here you go.
u2019-03-25-193	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, MSZP and DK are full of corruption cases. It's a fact. Let's just think about metro 4 abuse. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You can go to court again! Interjection in the ranks of Jobbik: They will pay from the party register...]] which is the biggest corruption case of all time; or, for example, the abuse of the EMIR IT system, where the family company of the Gyurcsány family is also involved; this is the case of the exchange of land in Sukoro; and let us not forget the billions of dollars in budget fraud of MSZP and DK lawyers, Csaba Czeglédy. But let us not forget that many cases have emerged in the southern part of the country that are linked to the MSZP, for example, the conviction of László Botka's MSZP mayor, deputy mayor and chief of staff about the abuse of VIP parking tickets. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You are a disgrace to humankind! Nacsa Lőrinc: How can you say that?]] Then there is the Seviép case, where the leaders of the court's supplier of Mayor László Botka MSZP have been sentenced to several years in prison, including the head of the company, Sándor Baranyi, for six years. The former Seviép leader said that, before 2010, in large investments under the Balliberal governments, only those who had political relations could be the main contractor and were recouping money. He also said that István Ujhelyi's MSZP representative's house was renovated for 30-40 million HUF, and therefore István Ujhelyi promised to provide significant political support for the company's orders. Let us not forget that István Ujhelyi is the second in the EU list of MSZP-Palogue. So it is a fact, gentlemen and ladies, that the MSZP is full of corruption scandals. Mr Secretary of State, I ask you: what means can be used to deal with new cases of corruption linked to the socialists? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-25-194	Secretary Pál Völner, two minutes, please.
u2019-03-25-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Socialists, as this nomination proves, have not learned from their mistakes, and after all these years they will not find such candidates. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Tamás Deutsch must be nominated!]] those who could faithfully represent their left-wing values in front of the voters. Perhaps Szeged also deserves more than the scandals that have emerged from the listed cases, which have started and ended in criminal proceedings over the past few years. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Is there a judgment?]] If you think of the Czeglédy thread, it also has szeged legs, so there were companies in Csongrád County who helped run this criminal organization. But in the same way, if you look back at the issues of Ferenc Gyurcsány Fittelina or the involvement of Klára Dobrev, Altus in the Czeglédy case, then you can see that the same system that was operated before is in operation, only the characteristics are different, because now this kind of attitude that László Botka operates as a kind of fief property, from the free parking space to the employment of his driver in Ujhely [[Zsolt Gréczy: Are you talking about Lajos Kósa?]] They still have the same old system that was set up earlier. If you are thinking of the Seviép scandal, where 443 families have been damaged with a total of HUF 10 billion: if the explanation really was that this kind of retribution destroyed the companies, then you can see that they were operating a self-destructive system, so they not only destroyed the country, but also their own network. [[Dr. László Varga: Hundreds of billions disappear! That's what's happening now! Zsolt Gréczy: You're all in it!]] These constructions that were used were not operational. And István Ujhelyi will be interested in his answer about the fate of the 30-40 million forints in which his house was renovated. [[Dr. László Varga: Explain the Ripper of the Ripper!]] We hope that these strands will be explored in the course of further procedures. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-25-196	Congressman Budai will reply in a moment.
u2019-03-25-197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Member, Mr Gréczy, believes that he is in the pub, because he also behaves like one; let us say, this is not far from him. [[Zsolt Gréczy: I am an anti-alcoholist, unlike you!]] But it would be much better if the MSZP and DK answered the questions I've been asking for the last year. [[Interjection in Jobbik's ranks: What did you do as a government commissioner?]] where the money from Csaba Czeglédy has migrated to you, DK and MSZP, and will answer the questions that have been asked in the last year... [[Interventions in the ranks of DK, MSZP and Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-25-198	As strange as the call is, it doesn't mean you have to answer immediately. For now, Congressman Budai has the floor.
u2019-03-25-199	Mr. President, thank you very much. So I would like to finish my sentence if my honourable fellow Member, Mr Gréczy, would allow me to answer. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Here you go.]] So it would be good if you and your party could answer the questions we've asked you over the past year. [[György Szilágyi: I would have liked to have been accounted for! Dániel Z. Carpathian: You've missed the genre!]] You are silent, you will not give an answer while Csaba Czeglédy stole 6.5 billion from the state budget, which is either with you or with the MSZP. Thank you very much. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Why, has there already been a judgment? There wasn't even a trial! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-25-200	State Secretary Völner's rejoined response in a minute.
u2019-03-25-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the question raised by the Member in his rejoinder, the main thing really is where the money went, and how much of the kind of activity involved in the nomination of István Ujhelyi, which, therefore, was mentioned by the leader who testified on the part of Seviép; indeed, he could support the party to the extent that this was a reward for his part, or it might be that he might tell further secrets and rather buy his silence. Anyway, I'm looking forward to seeing how many bills you'll find on this renovation. [[György Szilágyi: Ask the government commissioner for accountability. Lajos Rig: The Gyuszi of Buda must be trusted again...]] to prove that these payments were made in a demonstrable way from the current account, rather than in the middle of a corruption process, the Member was at that time. [[Zsolt Gréczy: How many more millions do you want to pay?]] I'm telling you, the main question again is that if you really didn't find a candidate who was less dirty than him, you'd have a very large cadre shortage. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-25-202	Dear Parliament, Member Peter Jakab, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "How credible is the government's policy?" It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga to respond to an urgent public task. I'll ask the congressman if he'll take it. [[On the sign of James Peter:]] You have the floor. Here you go.
u2019-03-25-203	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Minister, For the third year you have been constantly prolonging the crisis caused by mass immigration in Hungary, and the events of the past weeks and months have also highlighted that you are the cause of the crisis. On 30 December 2018, a Syrian citizen named F. Hassa was caught in the control of the authorities at Ferihegy airport due to false documents. This man was placed under foreign police arrest, and for three months under an international procedure, he had been thoroughly and professionally investigated in the history of this man, and it turned out that he was actually the terrorist of the Islamic State, one of the executioners involved in the decapitation of twenty people. I'll tell you one more time, they've been investigating this one man for three months. Meanwhile, over the last three years, you have allowed 86,000 immigrants into the country without any particular national security clearance. Even bondholders were examined for only a few days, which, according to the specialist services, was frivolous. Can you imagine how many of the 86 thousand immigrants could have arrived in Hungary? If Hassan had been a little more informed, he wouldn't have bought false documents, but he would have knocked on Rogán Antal's door and bought settlement bonds, and he would still be free to roam here in Hungary or even in the territory of the European Union. [[György Szilágyi: That's right!]] Minister, note that migration is not to be combated by conferences, posters, or incantations, especially if the bond holders or migrant workers are admitted to Hungary for tens of thousands. So I think we need serious action. Today there are 86 thousand question marks, 86 thousand national security risks in Hungary, which is why Jobbik has submitted a resolution proposal to undergo serious and responsible national security screening of all the 86 thousand immigrants you have allowed into the territory of the country. We'd like to know how many Hassans are still among them. Do you support him, Minister? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-25-204	Thank you very much. Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga, two minutes, please.
u2019-03-25-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I can't argue with phantom numbers, Congressman. [[James Peter: KSH!]] I can't argue with phantom numbers. You added up a cricket bug and created an 86,000 number, but what this 86,000 is, they never once told me that. [[14.50]] For example, you believe that those who receive some kind of protection from the Hungarian State are included in this. Well, mixing a protected, let's say, politically persecuted person with a terrorist, I'm sorry, but that's totally stupid. [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties. György Szilágyi: Gruevski! Lőrinc Nacsa: Speaks of Venezuelan Hungarians...]] And if I understand correctly, Mr President, in your comment or your question, you object to the fact that a terrorist has been apprehended, arrested, and thoroughly examined by the Hungarian authorities. [[Peter James: The rest is not...]] I'm sorry, but if you have a problem with that, I have a problem with your input. I believe that the Hungarian government is pursuing a consistent anti-immigration policy. This policy has produced results, this policy is supported by the Hungarian people, not only in the referendum, but also in the election they expressed their will. I think that you should also respect the wishes of the Hungarian people. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-25-206	Congressman, it's a matter of rejoinder in a minute.
u2019-03-25-207	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. Secretary. We're glad that a man has been examined. We're not happy that 86,000 weren't examined. [[György Szilágyi: That's right!]] Where did this 86,000 song come from? KSH data. Nor do I know that this figure of 86 000 is part of the world quota proposed by Viktor Orbán at the UN General Assembly in 2015, but I do know that the 86 thousand do not include the 15,000 illegal immigrants who, according to the Austrian authorities, ran across the Hungarian-Austrian border as a knife. It's a question of how they got in here. Of course, we also know the answer to that: there is no border guard. You systematically reject the confirmation of Frontex, but systematically reject the better proposal to restore the border guards that you have abolished in 2007. Therefore, a responsible decision must be taken on 20 May. [[László Böröcz: on the 26th...]] We vote for the border guards of Jobbik, or we vote for your immigrants. Those who support you will support the pro-immigration forces, and those who vote for Jobbik will vote for a safe Hungary, a country where the southern border will be protected not only by a fence, but also by border guards. [[Applause from Jobbik's benches.- Intercoms from Jobbik's benches: That's right! Bravo!]]
u2019-03-25-208	Deputy Prime Minister's rejoinder in a minute.
u2019-03-25-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, If you're right, then if we went out on the street now, we'd have to see some of the 86,000 people. [[György Szilágyi: Could be! Dániel Z. Carpathian: We should go out into the street!]] So what you are saying is also against people's everyday experience, quite simply reporting and reporting should have been given to the Hungarian police in order to accept the data or number you have heard. So there's no such thing. As far as the settlement bonds are concerned, I would like to inform you there, although you know this better than I do, because you have dealt with this matter a lot, but you have not noticed that there is a four-fold screening system for the examination of settlement bonds, so you have to go through four filters. [[György Szilágyi shows four to intervene.]] , who would like to buy some settlement policy from the Hungarian State. And Frontex, why you're fighting for Frontex, I don't understand that. I would like to tell you and inform you that the Hungarian Government's position on this issue has been clear, and we think of the protection of borders as a national competence. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And we will insist on that in the future. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-25-210	Thank you very much. Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of KDNP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: what can Hungarian families owe to Ferenc Gyurcsány? It's an address. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches.]] Minister Bence Rétvári has appointed Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public mission. Do you accept? [[Nacsa Lawrence nodds.]] You have the floor, Congressman. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Start an election!]]
u2019-03-25-211	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Families with children were the target of the austerity of the 2002-2010 Balliberal Governments. One month's salary has been taken from people; tax relief for families with one and two children has been abolished; home-building programmes have been abolished [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] ; from three years to two years the duration of the child was reduced; from nursery, kindergarten, school closure, and tax increases made life difficult for families. Ferenc Gyurcsány was the leader of this policy. After the family-friendly turnaround in 2010, we introduced the family tax system and its extension, the family home creation programme, the ged extra; we implemented a reduction in the costs; we provided a wide range of free children's meals and free textbooks, and I could still list the measures. We have more than doubled the budgetary resources spent on families, making us the first in the European Union in terms of GDP. The Gyurcsány Party, together with the Balliberal opposition, has always voted against the Hungarian families in these elections, and they do not want to support the family protection action plan, which will be another great relief for hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Credit...]] Now Ferenc Gyurcsány wants to announce his 28th programme to the Hungarian families since 2004. The high number of programs should not fool anyone, either based on lies or have become huge failures. Ferenc Gyurcsány's family business, the Democratic Coalition, is thinking in the United States of Europe. If this were to happen, Hungarian families would fall from much support, a significant part of the resources would have to be spent on immigrants. Ferenc Gyurcsány did not support the Hungarian families in the government either, he did not vote in opposition for the children's children, but he is now hosting a family policy program. That is why I ask how credible DK's family protection programme is if Ferenc Gyurcsány and his wife work in the background against the interests of the Hungarian people and his MEPs voted in favour of all pro-immigration proposals. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-25-212	Secretary Bence Rétvári, two minutes. Here you go.
u2019-03-25-213	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, What is the value of Ferenc Gyurcsány's word? On the one hand, he said so himself when he said: "We lied in the morning and at night and at night. And how much political weight a program that he advertises shows that it is a rather long list that can be compiled from Ferenc Gyurcsány's programs. [[Zsolt Gréczy: As you left the People's Party...]] Let's see who remembers which one, and who remembers which one, that any of them would have been realized. Started in 2004,. Dare to be left-wing, and then in the, in the spirit of the country with its programme. Launched in 2005 with an on-the-go program, after the en-route program, it launched an.100 step program, and the following year it launched a new program and a new balance program. [[Zsolt Gréczy: He won the election...]] In 2007 he announced a programme and a flagship program, but in that year he doubled the number of programs, and 48 points, and here he has already launched the seven points, and introduced a seven-point cleanliness package. Obviously, it was because of these seven points that he had to declare eight points, because he had already scored seven points, and this is also a prime number. [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] In 2008 with the title "Constitution" and then with the name of "New Ownership Program" in the name of common sense and then with the name "Working, knowledge, ownership" in the name of Ferenc Gyurcsány. In 2009 he was very focused, only one program was announced:, Four-pillar pack for Eastern-Central Europe. 2010 was missed in the program ads, they lost the elections there, but in 2011 Ferenc Gyurcsány applied with 20 points. 2012 has been missed again, then in 2013 - European Hungary! Democracy, security, development. The program was announced with a title. In 2013, it seems that, taking over the use of the word "clerical reaction," Ferenc Gyurcsány announced a program entitled "Krédó." This was followed by the 16 points that year, but by the end of the year, Ferenc Gyurcsány declared 33 points at the end of the year. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Wait for the Fidesz program!]] In 2014, he couldn't get rid of theological parallels - angels or devils? The program was announced as "Gyurcsány Ferenc" and in 2015 as "Hungary of Sokak." After all these programs, I think we can see that none of them have been implemented, that's exactly what Ferenc Gyurcsány's programs have. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-25-214	Congressman Nacsa's rejoinder in a minute.
u2019-03-25-215	Thank you very much. Ferenc Gyurcsány, when he announced this so-called family protection program on Facebook, he wrote in his announcement that Hungarian families needed peace. We agree with him on that, even if that phrase sounds strange from the mouth of the eyeball. [[Zsolt Gréczy: That's why you're going to court!]] But we believe that peace requires that the opposition does not always speak against the Hungarian families, not vote against the Hungarian families all the time. [[Zsolt Gréczy: A lot of people have lost this eye-shooting lawsuit! You're gonna...]] Don't tease the Hungarian families with lies, as Congressman Gréczy does here in the House every day, driving the Hungarian workers, the Hungarian families, the Hungarian people who are raising children with lies. So this is the family policy of Gyurcsány: austerity, voting against Hungarian families, supporting immigration. Ferenc Gyurcsány's family policy consists of one element: he wants to send his own wife to Brussels to make sure that he is sure to support the pro-immigration plans. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Zsolt Gréczy: Start an election!]]
u2019-03-25-216	Secretary of State's rejoinder in a minute.
u2019-03-25-217	Thank you very much. I think that every Hungarian family remembers restrictions on Ferenc Gyurcsány and the MSZP-SZDSZ government, even if Congressman Arató said that they had never been to government. [[Zsolt Gréczy: People's Party, how will this be?]] The fact that Ferenc Gyurcsány no longer trusts any party member in order to put him at the top of the European list rather than in his own wife is a good symbol of confidence within the party. Obviously, I don't know what their various co-co-parties say about this between left-wing parties. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Let DK decide who to start.]] within their own party family, that this is the programme of the Democratic Coalition for the elections to the European Parliament to resolve the EP list in-house. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Orbán Rachel could have gone...]] Almost every year, when there was a left-wing government or a Gyurcsány government in Hungary, the Hungarian families lost some support, and since 2010 there has not been a year when family support was not extended from one year to the next. Everyone has a choice: Brussels dictated restrictions, as was the case in 2008 in Hungary, the withdrawal of family support, or the post-2010 period [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] increasing family support from year to year in a noticeable manner. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-25-218	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Member László Varga, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: "Clean air! It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Sándor Farkas Secretary of State to respond to the urgent public task. I ask the congressman if he accepts the response. [[Dr. László Varga: Yes.]] Yeah. You have the floor, please. [[15.00]]
u2019-03-25-219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In contrast to what has been said in recent minutes, I would like to draw attention to a really serious, real and many people's problem: this is the issue of air pollution, which poses a huge health risk across the country, is responsible for countless cancers and causes a lot of premature deaths. In this context, infringement proceedings have also been initiated against our country. They expect an action plan from the government in this regard. Obviously, there is also a question of what's going on with this. But I keep calling attention every time I ask for a word on this subject that the valley of Sajó is the most polluted in this regard; it is my narrowest patriarch. I live in Miskolc, where I was born, and I say a few other names of settlements: Kazincbarcika, Sajószentpéter, Putnok, which are said many times, when unfortunately we hear the worst data during the period when this happens many times. It's spring, we're hearing less of this kind of news, but I think it's time to take very serious steps to finally solve the problem after years of hesitation. Technically, building energy developments have stopped since 2010 and there are no boiler exchange programs. The untimely nature of heating is one of the most serious responsible for emissions of particulate matter. Firewood is expensive, some of the passenger car stock is outdated, and there are no large, comprehensive vehicle exchange programmes in Community transport. In Miskolc, for example, the data on wheat is unbelievable. That's where the Volan company is supposed to change their vehicles. There is also innovative development, which was proposed, a smogkényményi képítás from the researchers of the University of Miskolc, which also did not receive the attention and support it deserved. I think we have a job to do. The question is what will the government finally do to reduce air pollution. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you, Mr. President.
u2019-03-25-220	Mr. Secretary.
u2019-03-25-221	[[The sound system isn't working.]] Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The government's top priority is the population...
u2019-03-25-222	Excuse me, Mr. Secretary. Now, let's start again, please.
u2019-03-25-223	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The government's primary objective is to improve the health of the population and to reduce the factors that cause people's diseases to this end. Significant steps have been taken in recent years to reduce the effects of air pollution and the situation has improved in many areas. At the same time, air quality development involves a number of independent factors in addition to local emissions of air pollutants. Hungary receives more than 30 percent more air pollutants from beyond the border than it does, and because of the country's pool character during the winter period, and so perhaps Sajó Valley is even more sensitive in this respect to substances that are settled in these valleys. Nevertheless, we will, of course, continue to take all possible measures to improve air quality. Years ago, we launched an inter-sectoral programme to reduce small particle emissions. Since the launch of the programme in 2011, a number of measures have been implemented in the transport, industrial, agricultural and residential sectors worth some HUF 160 billion. In Hungary, airborne dust comes to the greatest extent from residential heating, burning of avar and garden waste and illegal incineration of other waste. One of the best tools to reduce household emissions is to improve energy efficiency in buildings, by insulation, by modernising heating systems, and as a result of our ongoing support system, more than 412 thousand households have invested in reducing emissions since 2010. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-25-224	Thank you very much. The congressman's rejoinder will follow in a minute.
u2019-03-25-225	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The map is offensively the same if we look at social problems and the air pollution problems that result from them; and if we look at the health problems and deaths that result from this, it is specifically related to social problems, so the issue is also related to residential heating. That's why we should make a move. Miskolc has received very limited funds from these amounts, which have so far been available in relation to the size of the problem. But let me tell you, it's a family protection issue. Today, a research has seen the public say that dust and soot with a particle diameter of less than 2.5 microns are responsible for the worldwide increase in infertility rates, so this is also a very important issue of family protection. It is therefore necessary to create a healthy environment for families. I suggest, Mr. Secretary, that we create a program called "Stop Poros." And stop the invading dust together, because everyone has the right to know how dangerous it is. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2019-03-25-226	Mr. Secretary.
u2019-03-25-227	Thanks for the good ideas, but I'm gonna stick with the genre. I would like to inform the Member that a new national air load reduction programme is currently being developed to limit emissions of all relevant air pollutants. The adoption of the new programme is planned towards the end of 2019 and thus the first half of this year. The measures provided for in this Decision are calculated to reduce environmental and health risks by more than 50 percent. I am convinced that it is necessary to continue here by coordinating government measures and by further strengthening public awareness-raising, I would just like to note that a significant part of this approach should be given to the conscious use of energy and fire technology, in the field of school education and education, with which we can contribute to the resolution of this issue. That is why I am convinced that environmental harm reduction [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] so it can be done. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-25-228	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The last immediate question will follow today. Congressman Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I will ask the Member if he will accept the Secretary of State as a reply. [[On the sign of Gergely Harvesto:]] Here you go.
u2019-03-25-229	Dear Secretary of State, I am very pleased to see that you have discovered that responsible governments and responsible political forces are also preparing a programme, namely a detailed policy programme, which is also of great benefit to be accountable for. I know that this is new in Fidesz and KDNP, and it is not customary, but I can tell you that I wish you a good browsing between these programme points; it is only because you can at least see it in the programmes of the Gyurcsány governments, or in the programme or programmes of the Democratic Coalition, that the goal is consistently to enable more and more young people to get higher education, to learn. What's going on? Let me just remember a little bit of data. The first figure is perhaps the most dramatic of higher education students, the proportion of students during the Gyurcsány government was more than 4 percent compared to the total population, now less than 3 percent. So, what do you kids do when you're in higher education? They're closing these gates even more. They want to push students out of higher education without a compulsory language exam. They're turning Corvinus University into a private university, a paid university. They're setting brutal tuition fees, and I could keep going. But I could also quote terrible data from the PISA study. It can be seen that the results of all studies are getting worse, the basic abilities of Hungarian students are getting weaker. Or I could also quote the fact that the proportion of early school leavers in Europe alone is not decreasing, but is increasing, the proportion of students who leave the school system without proper education. So the question is: why are they ruining education? Why are they debauching education? Why don't they want Hungarian students to learn?
u2019-03-25-230	State Secretary Bence Rétvári will be here in two minutes.
u2019-03-25-231	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The only thing the congressman didn't tell me was which of these countless, at least two dozen Gyurcsány programmes had anything to do with. What were the results of which were visible? Because if you look at how much Hungary spends on education, education and training, you can see that this is 4.9 percent. And if you look at the average of the European Union, you see it as 4.7 percent. Is this your idea of a way of fooling people into spending more on education than other countries do on education in the European Union? And is what you have done the right way, honourable Member? What you have achieved for young Hungarians is that youth unemployment has doubled in Hungary. You said then that the training contribution, the tuition fee, was a very important element of higher education reform, and you wanted to encourage students to do so. How do we encourage students? In two years, we will increase social scholarships by 40%, the rate for students. This is indeed an incentive and indeed encourages those who come from the most difficult family circumstances and their families are less able to cover their higher education education. [[15.10]] On the other hand, you would have paid a tuition fee to those who wanted to get into higher education, no matter who it was, and when you protested against it, you said that they only wanted to prevent the country's calm government, that is, those who consider the tuition to be a mistake, and you also said that demonstration did not discourage the government from its original intention. In Hungarian: you did not listen to the opinion of the people, the opinion of the people was not taken into account, so after the demonstration people decided to make their views known in a referendum, and in this referendum your tuition fee was abolished to an overwhelming extent. Honourable Congressman, There was a teacher's wage increase, a higher education wage increase of 50 per cent, 27 per cent, and the resources, as I said, increased by HUF 606 billion in absolute numbers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-25-232	Reply to Congressman in a minute.
u2019-03-25-233	I generally find it pointless to argue with Mr Secretary of State's historical retrospect, since it is not your job to deal with our governance, but your own. But while we are at it, I would like to remind you that according to the same Eurostat data, Hungary spent 5.5 percent of its GDP on education even in 2010, so they still haven't reached the 2010 level. So you have nothing to boast about, my dear Secretary of State. But more importantly, the results show what an education policy is worth. It shows whether it's easier to learn for a student or harder. It shows that more people can learn or less. Fewer people can learn in your education system, fewer people can succeed, you push young Hungarians out of the education system, you make this society dumb, because they look to Hungary not as a multitude of educated people, but as a assembly plant, which can be damaged by overtime and low wages. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-25-234	Rejoice from the Secretary of State in a minute.
u2019-03-25-235	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I repeat once again: we spend HUF 606 billion more on total education than Hungary spent on the basis of the last budget you have presented, and we spend on education above the EU average. And if we look at the results of this, honourable Member, how the rates have been changed in recent years: the proportion of graduates in Hungary has increased from 21 percent to 25.5 percent, and fortunately, the number of those who do not have 8 primary education degrees has decreased by more than one third. You were talking about debauchery, honourable Member. What kind of debauchery you may be talking about when there are finally such positive processes that the proportion of those who do not have 8 generals will fall by one third over a period of a few years, and if I look at the other end, the proportion of those who have a degree will increase. Honourable Congressman, That's exactly what we were trying to do to get everyone to know what they could do afterwards, make good money, and that's why we're raising wages against you, we're raising them, so that these people can get a really decent wage after that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-25-236	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, MEP Bence Rétvári, representative of KDNP asked for a post- Agenda address:. Gyula Kornis's plan for the development programme of the district of Vác and Szob until 2030. It's up to Congressman.
u2019-03-25-237	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I believe that it is important for all regions, including the Danube Bend and the northern part of Pest County, to clarify the directions, the goals that are most important to them, and therefore for the district of Váci and Szobi, the Kornis Gyula Plan is a kind of future planning, direction, the important goals for which the government, municipalities, local businesses, everyone who lives and works in this part of the country should do and which are our common goals. A consultation was launched on this, in which we look forward to the views of local entrepreneurs, local citizens and local communities. We named him Gyula Kornis, one of the students of Vác, but he studied in Oxford, Germany and Italy, he was the State Secretary of Kuno Klebelsberg, and he was responsible for public education, but he was a dean of the Faculty of Philosophy of Pázmány Péter University, former president of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and for two cycles he was a representative of the Parliament of Vác and his region, while he was a piarist monk. In 44 the Gestapo, in 45 the Soviets arrested him. So we named this plan after him. Our aim is to serve the full national goal of Hungary being among the top five countries of the European Union where it is better to live, live and work, and our country is among the top five EU countries in the new type of competitiveness ranking. There are seven main parts and another summary part of the Gyula Kornis plan. First of all, health improvements are the most important, which is why it is important to develop the hospital in Vác, on which the government spends billions of forints, while there are dozens of health homes being renewed in the surrounding 33 settlements. It is also important to develop crèches, schools, kindergartens, family support services and institutions for the elderly. The third area, which creates decent conditions for everyday life, the strengthening of the various offices, public buildings, the various institutions serving public security, is that each, when dealing with his affairs with the state, is able to obtain assistance in decent conditions and quickly, the objectives are also sought out by the various public administrations. It is important to support church communities, not only in Vác, there are large-scale, hundreds of millions of projects, building reconstructions, but also in the surrounding settlements in the order of tens of millions or in the order of a few million, but there are still work in progress in total worth more than 120 million forints. It is very important that adequate infrastructure is available for the quality of leisure time, so cultural life, new sports investments and renovations of old sports facilities are also implemented, sports parks are placed in several places, half a dozen places within the two walks, and it is very important that the new building of the theatre is also completed. In the past, these institutions were only closed, and now a new theatre has started, and it has repeated the number of visitors since its departure. One of the most important things for everyone is the development of transport, as it is very important for everyone to be able to reach their place of residence, workplace, relatives, acquaintances, friends, or a larger city, if necessary. It is therefore important that by the end of this year the M2 will be extended twice to two lanes, and by the end of this year, the two-storey trains that will be the first to travel between Budapest and Vác will arrive in Hungary, making it easier to travel between Budapest and Vác. But it is important to further develop this, to extend double lanes, motorways to the border, and to provide new crossroads both on Ipoly and on the Danube. The tourist development is also important, as this region holds tourism as one of its break-out points, so it is important that Vác's city receives a HUF 3 billion grant for the renovation of the Baroque downtown, HUF 1 billion for the construction of the museum district, HUF 1 billion for the settlement and attractiveness of the Danube coast, and Zebegény receives at least HUF half a billion for the promotion of cultural life for others, and Zebegény is also a kind of Dunakanyar cultural jewelry box. I trust these improvements will continue. Government support has never been seen in this region. The Hungarian village programme can give new impetus to the settlements in Börzsöny to create new community scenes, new public services, new quality public services. Everyone's suggestions are very much seen at the e-mail address kornisgyulaterv@retvari.hu. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-25-238	On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Kontra reflects [[Károly Kontra: No, thank you.]] But he thinks it's all been said here, so it doesn't reflect. Then Mr Attila Barcza, representative of Fidesz, will take place after the agenda: the Euroliga Final Four, will be held in Sopron. Here you go.
u2019-03-25-239	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Sopron is a national sports town committed to promoting daily physical education, healthy lifestyles and sports. This includes organizing several international sporting events. Sopron is one of the outstanding centers of Hungarian basketball, and this is also demonstrated by the great success that the women's basketball team, Sopron Basket, has reached the final four of Euroliga, the highest ranking women's basketball club. From 12-14 April, the best women basketball teams in the continent meet in Sopron. [[15.20]] Congratulations to Sopron Basket, which is an excellent team, 12 gold medals and 8 silver medals at 20 championship finals in Sopron. In the finale of the Hungarian Cup, the band also appeared 20 times and enjoyed 8 gold medals. The success in the international cups is also outstanding, and in 1998 the Sopronians won the final of the Ronchetti Cup in Provence, France. During the 2008-2009 Euroliga season, the team reached the top four and achieved the greatest success in Sopron Basket's history last year, when they also won the silver medal at the Final Four. As a result of the fantastic professional work, we managed to win in the home of such long-standing bands, including world stars, such as Dinamo Kursk, Galatasaray, Fenerbahce, Prague, Riga or Salamanca. In recent years, Sopron Basket has improved the reputation of Sopron and Hungary in nearly 40 European cities. Sopron is one of Hungary's basketball centers, which is also proven by the fact that we have women's and men's basketball clubs with academic levels, and more than 700 children participate in basketball supply training on a daily basis. We can also be proud of our outstanding basketball clubs, Sopron Darazsak, Sopron Tigers and their wheelchair team, SMAFC, SKC and Sports School. Ladies and gentlemen, I express my thanks to the Hungarian Government, because with its support it basically allows this prestigious event to take place in Sopron. Thanks to the Municipality of Sopron County and the Hungarian Basketball Association for their support. I wish the girls, Sopron Basket, good luck to play in the Euro League final four. Go, Sopron! Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-25-240	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone wants to reflect on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Thus, since we are not speaking after the last agenda, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, will we be speaking to you for how long? Speak with a title. Here you go.
u2019-03-25-241	Mr President, Dear House, In recent years, I have made several appointments to the Immigration and Nationality Office with a slightly different name since then, in relation to requests for data that have made it clear that, although the government is trying to restrain it at rhetorical level, apparently, the migratory pressure does not show this. In recent years, tens of thousands have either arrived here, or have passed through, or have been protected, or are bondholders or members of their family, and screening involving them is not considered sufficient in the vast majority of cases. The 2018 figures of this Immigration and Asylum Office are very clear, which light up a different migration spiral. Last year 111,000 people arrived in Hungary, among them those who came to Hungary with work intentions, this was their official justification of more than 60,000 people. If we look a little behind the process, we find that when, a cycle ago in this Parliament, I warned pro-government representatives that there is a huge threat to the pro-government proposal that would make it easier for multinationals to import labour from third countries or even from the third world, then Jobbik's faction was warned, saying that this is not a realistic threat, that there is no such thing in reality. The situation is that imports of foreign labour have been made attractive by the government. As early as June 2017, the laws which grant exemptions to non-EU nationals for 90 days for the purpose of fulfilling certain jobs entered into force. Since then, it has been established that these multi-company workers from foreign countries are practically rotting every 3 months, turning every 90 days. And the government has made quite amazingly special funds available for foreign recruitment campaigns, while there would be a need to intervene on two fronts. On the one hand, the Statistical Office accounts for around 600,000 people who are employed black or in the grey economy at home. The whitening of their working conditions, their social protection, if you will, would, if you like, provide decent wages for decent work with a comprehensive national programme. As is the fact that the inactive labour force is often found in Hungarian villages. Part of my family comes from Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, and I can see perfectly well that in small settlements there is often an inactive workforce at home, because vocational training is not prepared for their real market needs, there is no college network, there is no social housing or even a service housing network that could make the conditions suitable for these rural or small-town youth to stand their ground in the labour market. What we see is that the government has practically strengthened and accelerated the imports of foreign labour rather than remedying these existing problems, as the same discount that was now implemented practically a week or two ago in the spirit of driving to Belarusian migrant workers has already been granted in December 2017 for Ukrainian citizens, an amendment has already been made. We can also see that government explanations are amazing, as they believe that labour demand in the domestic competition sector is increasing and wages are constantly rising, which could be statistically true in nominal terms if international comparisons were not made. After all, if we look at the wages of Hungarians in euro, we can see that even compared to regional competitors, this growth is lagging behind. So, while such a launch can be shown in the region, we see in Hungary that overall, Hungarian wages are still not enough to cover domestic housing costs either for those who, let's say, face rent fees. Instead of giving Hungarian young people better opportunities to live with motivations; instead of helping those 600 thousand people mentioned in Hungary out of the grey economy; instead of creating an active workforce from the inactive workforce and bringing Hungary into action, the government makes facilities for multinational companies in relation to foreign labour, which are not even in need of these facilitations. If you accept a piece of advice from us, instead of installing a foreign workforce, these multi-company companies will be included in the scope of public burdens, renegotiating the strategic contracts that have been signed with them. Achieve at least the slow catching-up of Hungarian wages; even by rewording Jobbik's wage union initiative, take this, but do not let the active, workers, talented people leave Hungary constantly, and continue to invade foreigners, tens of thousands of aliens from foreign countries, because this leads to a change of population. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and for the strengthening of the looting pump, which we have been victims of for decades. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-25-242	Thank you very much. I'll ask the government representative if he wants to reflect. [[For signal:]] No. Dear Parliament, I will therefore inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 1 April 2019. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed. Good afternoon, everyone.
