u2019-03-05-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome all of you, and welcome our guests, and everyone who is monitoring our work today. The 6th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and György Szilágyi, notaries, will be in charge of the meeting. Dear Parliament, Mr László Varju applied for a pre-meeting speech with the title of Health Roulette. He's not in the Chamber at the moment. Mr Tamás Mellar has also applied for a pre-meeting speech from the Group of Dialogue on Current Affairs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-03-05-1	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, In recent months, we have seen how the government and the Minister of Foreign Affairs Fidesz and Palkovics have invaded the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. I have a feeling about this, because we have seen this before: when the MSZP-SZDSZ government was in power, Minister Kóka likewise attacked the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and wanted to plow it. But then, thank God, Fidesz stood up for the Academy and defended the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, but now, unfortunately, he does not and has not done so. Minister Palkovics mentions two very important elements about his problem with the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and its institutes. One of these is that the academic institutions do not serve innovation, but I think there is a material error here, because innovation should not be counted on those who do basic research and applied research, but rather on the government and the entrepreneurial sphere. Speaking of government, the government could do more for innovation, since last year's R &amp; D expenditure accounted for 1.3 percent of GDP. This is less than the average of the European Union, which is above 2 per cent, and even less than this type of expenditure in the Nordic countries, where these expenditures are around 3 per cent or above 3 per cent. Furthermore, this whole thing is problematic because innovation cannot be properly carried out by the company circle, because the technical and technological base is missing from it, because the money we received from the European Union for the development of technology and technology, unfortunately, was not used by the government, but rather for the renovation of buildings, public spaces, swimming pools, stadiums and similar construction investments. Of course, there is also a lack of human capital, there is a lack of 600 thousand or perhaps even more mobile, mobile people who could be the engine of this innovation. And I'm gonna miss it if the academic research centers are gonna get beaten up, even more people, because in academic institutions, researchers are almost half the age of 40. Which means that in the event of such a change, they take their tent trees very easily and go to far more peaceful, better places where they are more appreciated. The other question is what they always point out to academic institutions is that they're too expensive, they cost too much. Well, 0.1 percent of GDP is no longer the money the Academy's budget consumes, and this is also falling. If we look at what the number of research and publications per unit of budget money looks like, we can find a very positive situation in European comparison, so the Academy is also doing well in this respect. But what is the real reason that academic institutions are about to be beaten up? I think one of them is wealth, so the government wants to put their hands on academic wealth. How big this is, it's hard to estimate, between 100 billion and 300 billion each. But today there will be another vote on this, which is exactly what it will be about, which is the amendment of the foundation law, which will try to make this possible. The second is the acquisition of EU funds, as in the next period institutions will receive much more directly EU funds and not through the government. At the moment, there is no research institute capable of acquiring EU funds and at the same time under the influence of Fidesz. So in some way I want to create this, this iron circle of wood thing, so that there are institutions, research institutes that are able to make EU money and are directly linked to Fidesz. But this is a logical impossibility, since institutions dependent on politics will not be able to do so. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause for DK and Dialogue.]]
u2019-03-05-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. In response to the Member's speech before the agenda, we will hear the answer from State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2019-03-05-3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I will try to be very short, but first of all, I will reject all the suspicions and accusations you rephrased and have repeatedly been formulated by members of your faction or members of other factions in connection with the transformation of the MTA's research institutes, more specifically, with regard to their funding. We are talking about this for many times, and I hope that the negotiations that will soon be concluded will end this series of questions, and a solution will come to light that will reassure both researchers working in scientific life, members of the MTA and those working in research institutions. Perhaps we can agree that it is up to the institutions, the institutions, to meet as much as possible social needs and the needs of the economy as possible. These negotiations, which, hopefully, will soon put this issue to a rest, are taking place, and therefore there is no point in discussing this in detail, and I do not see the point. Perhaps your part of this debate makes sense after their faction is becoming increasingly uncharacteristic, and your faction members cannot find a topic that would make sense for the people who listen to us or are watching our work, so they try to find areas and create debates that are behind which they suspect attempts that do not stand the test of reality. This is the supposition, and these are the ideas that you have listed here on real estate, suggesting that EU funds may be misusing. If that's what you're looking for, Congressman, perhaps you should ask your fellow MSZP member, who, among other things, went into your faction to be able to form a faction at all. You have also given up your long-standing independence so that a small group that, by the way, does not consist of so many members can form a single faction, and here in Parliament they play a game that does not fit the dignity of Parliament. Returning to MTA: MTA researchers, the leadership of MTA, had read the statements that negotiations were being conducted towards agreement. They were interested in the agreement and understand the goals set by the government for the MTA, and the negotiations are being conducted with the adoption of this. Once again, in order to ensure that MTA and its institutions and institutions can serve the needs of Hungarian society and the needs of the Hungarian economy as much as possible. It seems that you are not interested in this, as a conclusion to be drawn from different theories, always trying to create cases that do not have any real basis. So I would also ask you, Congressman, to wait together for the hearing to end, and then it will make sense to talk about whether the solution is a good solution, whether it is a good solution, or whether it should be refined. I ask for your patience, and I ask both you and your fellow factions, so that until then we don't waste each other's time with different suspicions and accusations, we will soon have an agreement, and then we will be able to discuss the issues of the operation of the MTA's research institutes in substance. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[8.10]]
u2019-03-05-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[On the mark of Ander Balázs:]] If you don't mind, Mr. Varju has arrived. [[Ander Balázs: All right.]] Thank you very much. Mr László Varju, from DK, applied for a speech before the agenda entitled Health Roulette. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-03-05-5	Thank you very much, Mr President, and my fellow Members, for your patience. I hope that, in all the things that follow, Mr Secretary of State does not join his colleague and refer to suspicions, but seeks to respond with facts to the simple situation of the fact that for years there has been news of the lack of doctors and the experience of the resulting long waiting lists. Nevertheless, Minister Kasler announced last Monday with a big derell-flatline that the waiting lists had fallen so drastically that we had practically arrived in Europe. To make sure what was real, Minister, it would have been enough to look into the official waiting list of the National Health Insurance Fund Manager, but he probably didn't, instead he did it by a medical colleague who, in contrast to the facts, basically said that the official waiting lists justify the opposite of what the Minister said. It turned out that waiting lists were not shortened, or at least not there, not then, not in that form, not in that category of disease, so it is not as the Minister said. But let's not just look at this nationwide, but in your particularity. Újpesten, in my constituency too, if I look at it from there, and I don't just start from statistics, what happens and how many people line up, then I have to say I have the same experience. Even with a HUF 800 million source, they tried to create a better situation, but it had nothing to do with reducing waiting lists, but the deputy mayor responsible for the local government said that this money would be spent so that he would not be so hot in the building in the summer. This amount will be used to plan the heating and cooling of the specialist clinic. Of course, it's usually warm in the summer, no doubt, but it doesn't mean long waiting lists are reduced, they're still there. So it may continue to be warm in the summer, but the long waiting list will remain in Newpesten, just a question of whether the patient will make it worth the summer to enjoy the climate, that he has not otherwise reached a proper and timely doctor. In fact, there is a shortage of doctors and professionals in Újpesten, too, that waiting lists in the specialist clinic will not be shortened in the foreseeable future. During the public hearing in December, the deputy mayor stated that 1300 people were waiting for ultrasound. Dear Secretary of State, This means a waiting period of 3-4-5 months for patients. Ophthalmology is longer than that, over four months. We have to wait weeks for physical therapy, so your statement, the Minister's statement, is neither generally nor specifically in Newpesten. The municipality's plans also included a one-day surgical design, but this was only a plan, because as a result of the government's blessed work, the necessary hospital background in the district, the IV. It's gone in the district. So, both official national data and personal experience contradict the Minister of Health's statements and, in particular, the prognosis of the waiting lists. In fact, it is now almost a cliché that Hungarian health care is also terminally ill, many people are making money for their remaining values so that they can choose life and not face death. However, it would be easy to see and pay particular attention to waiting lists, since their shortening is a matter of life and death, it can save the lives of patients, reduce the time of recovery and relieve the pressure on the health system. And why this isn't so, I have a feeling that you simply don't want to keep the patients, the elderly, the weak, alive, dealing with them. They're in a decision-making position, and you're assisting in this, and unfortunately, it's not just in general, but as I said, it's in Newpesten. Most people who don't get the VIP list have to pray that they can survive on their own. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-03-05-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr President, before the agenda, Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, replied. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-03-05-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, your government, the socialist government, had a waiting list reduction programme, and Fidesz-KDNP has a waiting list reduction programme. Your government was trying to reduce the number of patients in line for medical treatment by introducing a visitation fee and a hospital daily allowance, because it thought that if you had to pay for care, fewer people would apply for care, and that would result in a radical decrease in the number of institutional waiting lists that were actually squared spiral books. This is also a way, it is also a way to keep people who experience the first signs of disease on themselves, especially when it comes to small-money people, away from both the clinic and the hospital and the general doctor, because with that initial 300 HUF, and then obviously thousands of forints that would have been taken as a visitation fee, you have tried to reduce the number of people waiting. This idea was clearly rejected, swept away by the social referendum in March 2008 and then replaced by the government that wanted to reduce waiting lists. On the other hand, Fidesz-KDNP thought that it would provide additional resources in this area and thought that it would create a transparent, web-based system for everyone to see. You didn't create this national online waiting list registration system by accident, because then you would have found out exactly how many patients are waiting, and you didn't want to do that, because you knew you couldn't fix it, because once your visit fee-winning idea was on the rocks, you'd have to stay in the hospital and practice spiral dice book world and sort things out on the spot. On the other hand, in a year and a half at the beginning of our administration, we have built an IT system that can handle waiting lists transparently and easily for everyone, and therefore without any external influence, who can follow how many people are waiting for treatment before and when they will be there, and this is obviously with respect for personal rights, without the names being indicated, with identification numbers. And if there has already been a transparent system, then it is worth spending additional resources on it, because then we know that it will be turned on and turned on. Fortunately, we also found partners in this, such as the Hospital Association, which, if possible, could be provided more quickly in one hospital than in the other, they also posted on the Hospital Association's website that if someone wanted to get treatment faster, where to travel and set up a system in which 10 percent of the costs could be used for travel or care in another county. So we spent HUF 26 billion on the waiting list reduction programme, and this year we will spend HUF 5 billion on additional resources. You have not launched such a programme, you have not provided such additional resources, so the number of people on the waiting list has decreased from 70,000 in 2012 to 28 thousand now. The number of people waiting for cataract surgery and the rate of waiting decreased by 50 percent during that time; the reduction in waiting time for knee replacement surgery is 48 percent and the reduction in waiting time for hip replacement surgery is 51,8 percent. And while you have mocked this, it is true that many Western European countries can be compared to these most frequent interventions today, it is a series of waiting times, and I think that doctors, nurses, the Hospital Association and everyone who has cooperated in bringing it down to this level. You referred to a press conference here last week. Honourable Congressman, If you know this system, fortunately, as I said, is transparent, so everyone on the NEAK website is the successor of OEP, the Health Insurance Fund Manager's website can follow these numbers and look at the waiting times. [[8.20]] There are two types of waiting time, one of which is the planned one, so when someone is expected to take place and the other is the actual one. And thank God, the actual one is always shorter than the one planned, because for many other reasons, or because someone's intervention requires another intervention, and only then can the next surgery be performed, or for other reasons, but those who fall out of line from time to time. That's why everyone usually gets care faster than they say at the first moment. That's why there's a difference between the planned and the actual waiting time, but thank God it's actually shorter. I'm asking you not to mess with Parliament and not to play with these two. Compare one genre of numbers, either the actual one, or the planned one with the actual one. If you do so, you will always experience a decrease. I'm also asking you not to confuse sleep and outpatient care. Newpest has outpatient care. We're hoping that one-day surgery can build up, and don't mix that up. As a positive point, I can tell you that the development of the last year has resulted in a 10 percent increase in diagnostic capacity in Budapest and Pest, and this will also result in a further reduction of waiting lists. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-05-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. On behalf of the Jobbik Group, Mr Ander Balázs applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-03-05-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, A good six months ago, the results of the sociological research carried out on domestic Judaism under the guidance of CEU professor András Kovács. Before the ruling party would, as usual, twist this speech, and mention the listing of their patsy media, note that there is no racism, anti-Semitism, as all Hungarian Jewish organizations have joined together in the interest of the project, and thanks to the voluntary questionnaire survey, we have gained basic information about Hungarian Jewishism, its composition, the identity and world view of our fellow Jews. But I don't want to talk about it, who's interested in it, so you can look at the details on the Internet. I would like to say that if the government accepts the fundamental truth of the fact that Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union One of the most important issues of Hungary in the century will be the issue of Hungarian-Gypsy co-existence, the integration of Gypsyism, then why do they allow themselves the luxury of self-destructing so that we do not have comprehensive research results in the case of the largest ethnic group in Hungary. This was the last serious investigation carried out by István Kemény in 1993 and then in 2003, but only 5,000 people were allowed to be asked. Now hold on to the results. It is saddening: a significant proportion of the Romungros, which make up 70 percent of the Hungarian Roma population, have unfortunately been removed from the majority society in terms of nationality. We don't know what's going on since then. There should be no misunderstanding, of course it is not a crime to assume identity, it is a fundamental right. But it should not be a secret that we would be happy to see the Roma-born rise in Gypsy, but the number of people who say no to the artificially built Roma nationalism, who feel themselves and feel exclusively Hungarian; or those who, according to the double golden band of Tamás Péli, the former socialist representative, claim to be Hungarian as well as their Gypsy identity. Social national disintegration bomb under the country. I myself do not wish to be in the role of the alarm bird at all, but Gyula Illyés was right: it increases who conceals the trouble. After all, what can be said when János Ladányi, a sociologist who is hard to blame for right-wing deflecting, said so in an interview that cannot be quoted enough:, In recent decades there has been a strong increase in the proportion of people living in segmented settlements. The Ghetto villages in the north-east of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county are starting to connect. This has never been the case in Hungarian history. From here, the state withdrew, gave up this part of the country. The non-Gypsy population is ageing or moving away, and all of this is indeed threatening to have people who see the solution of the problem in territorial autonomy and may even be separated from Hungary. But if autonomy is only a negative utopia for now, unfortunately, the unintegrated lifestyle is no longer dominant in a small settlement that has become a domestic no-go zone, which means the loss of the local community, even without territorial separation. However, according to Jobbik, three things are certain. First of all, Csonka-Hungary is too small for a new, just like metaphorical Trianon. Responsible government cannot give up any square inch of our country, which is why everyday heroes, educators, patronesses, social workers, postmen, policemen should be highly valued. Secondly, everyone, including any minority, must comply with mandatory standards of coexistence. There's no escape, there's no alternative to a self-segregating culture of opt-out. The gypsy people who take on integration, who deserve all respect, who themselves are often victims of a life that doesn't spare their own children, can count on Jobbik. Third, choose any identity belonging to the Gypsies in Hungary, we are a friend to those who are responsible for the future of their children in learning and working, and who want to build this country together with us. The Integration Task Force of Jobbik, which was established last week, will operate in the spirit of these principles. We look forward to what the government does, how the government thinks about it, because Hungary's future is at stake. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-05-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Ander Balázs, State Secretary Bence Rétvári, has responded to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-03-05-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Let me first respond to your last sentence. When Jobbik had scandals about pensioners, and their party president, Gábor Vona, qualified the elderly from their Facebook pages with unsatisfying words, and the rest, then suddenly a retirement work group or a member was formed to cover the problem. [[Balázs Ander: Answer the question!]] But then it turned out that his vice president was extremely racist and anti-Semitic, and we couldn't even put together a window of retirement... [[Dr. László György Lukács: When are you talking about the Mayor of Szolnok?]]
u2019-03-05-12	Congressman Luke!
u2019-03-05-13	... so that there are no leaders of those who will be exposed to Facebook videos in minutes when they have extreme exclusion and racist views. Now it seems that Jobbik is trying to cover up another thing, and it's creating an integration class. Honourable Congressman, A party that was conceived in racism, a party sitting here in parliament because in the years before 2010, it carried an extreme anti-Gypsy rhetoric, a party that was due to the fact that it organised fear marches in a large number of settlements inhabited by Gypsies through the Hungarian Guard, and then such rhetoric was typical of you when you marched in Gárda uniforms, in lion uniforms, either in the Castle or elsewhere, it will be difficult to wash off from one moment to the next, that it really represents a gender-compatible position on all important social issues. It's obviously generating a pretty strong internal tension in you. It is because of this, honourable Member, that they are slowly making a record, because every month someone is slowly leaving Jobbik, precisely because he cannot take this kind of transition. A few months ago, you said that no kind of cooperation can be imagined with the representatives of power before 2010, and then in recent weeks you said that you would be happy to cooperate with left-wing politicians, because they are well-intentioned and kind, in Hungarian, if they help you closer to power. This, therefore, honourable Member, is a window. You are also discredited by the fact that you want to take political advantage of this, just as you have discredited the SDS. They wanted to benefit politically by seeing racism everywhere and turning basically social issues into fundamental rights issues. And you, on the other hand, have entered Parliament, playing to the prejudice of the majority, inciting hatred against Gypsyism and trying to maintain their voting base. It's just really hard to do this, I'm telling you, along with a recent liberal rhetoric. On the other hand, we have chosen the way to help everyone who is in a difficult situation, not as a fundamental rights issue, but as a social issue. As you have pointed out, the most important thing is to help us learn further, whether our secondary or higher education is gypsy or non-Gypsy compatriots. Therefore, it is important that the proportion of gypsies among the highest graduates has doubled. Today there are twice as many gypsy college students as there were in 2010. If it had been for any of the other parties, that wouldn't have been possible. This is a very important part of the fact that this government has supported the Christian-Romanian professional college network. The previous governments did not support such initiatives, which was the government's support for helping those who got in to complete the university. [[8.30]] With the Travel Scholarship, we have offered both primary education and further education, an incentive fee and scholarship to all, Gypsies, non-Gypsies, or in high school, the Travel to the profession with a scholarship has also spent a lot of billions of HUF to acquire the profession in recent years, so that for everyone, regardless of whether it is a gypsy or not, if it is difficult for his family to provide funding to complete his school, then he can finish it. That is what we have done in education and job creation. You can see that the streets that used to be inhabited, whether by Gypsy people or not, were filled with gypsy people, but were filled with idle people who were only pushing their cell phones, whereas these people can now go to work, 800 thousand more people work, and in this 800,000 surplus there are gypsy people in the order of hundreds of thousands, and there are also non-Gypsy people in the order of hundreds of thousands. That really leads out. But what you're taking, what you're playing at, that you're generating hatred and opposition, and you're trying to take political advantage of it, that's the road, the better road, it's going nowhere. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-05-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Let's get this country cleaned up. Mr Hohn Krisztina, from the LMP Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2019-03-05-15	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, I would like to begin with the words of the ecology professor János Balogh, who died in 2002. If an intelligent being begins to watch this world from above, he finds that on this planet there are insane people whose goal is to grind the biosphere and turn it into garbage, and then they themselves will die. Our entire country is a landfill, from Lake Balaton to Hortobágy, from Budapest to Battony, on the outskirts of the settlements, in the forests we can't even take a walk without meeting illegal waste. For works in forests, lumberjack waste, city border construction, demolition waste, and in many cases hazardous waste can be found. The situation today is worse than when nearly 2400 landfills were operated in Hungary. The root of the problem is the question of human attitudes. We want a clean Hungary. I think that we could now be partners regardless of party standing. We are pleased to see that the program for the elimination of illegal landfills has been announced, the TeSzedd! a movement with an extension of its duration. However, this will not be a solution if we, people, clean the areas out of public resources out of enthusiasm, while others carry out more and more illegal landfills, seemingly unpunished and unstoppable. The desire for social cooperation also diminishes when enthusiastic activists see that their work is useless. That's what they see. It has a role to play here in the current waste management services, lack of education and awareness-raising, landowners, municipalities, soil protection, environmental protection, nature protection authorities, police, official hunters, fish guards, field guards, public area inspectors. One of the control problems is getting to the crime scene. Even if we succeed, in many cases the proof is not successful, because they do not see the plot, or the unsub says that he is loading the trash up because he cannot forgive the fact that there is trash in the woods. And the delivery is not yet committed. A lot of people say they take the waste on a trip. In many cases, they also find the documents of the perpetrators, but they also explain this, they say that they have been stolen from them or lent to someone. Dear Parliament, It is not only the perpetrators, but also the legislative, social, administrative incompetence, inconsistencies and indifference that Hungary looks like this. In most cases, even if the procedure is initiated, the proof is effective, a fraction of the fine imposed is possible, a few thousand forints, which has no deterrent effect. The disposal of waste is cancelled 95 percent of the time, and the enforcement of civil liability is hardly the case in the country. While in downtown suburban areas, cameras are used to control illegal landfills, this method cannot work, as it is circumstantial and technically difficult to do. Comprehensive measures are needed. We consider it essential to introduce the obligation to apply a free waste accompanying document, the mere absence of which will turn the transport of municipal and green waste into an infringement. The responsibility of landowners should also be strengthened. This is very important, since most people do not control their areas at all and do not care if there is waste or waste heaps, but they do not transport them. Dear Parliament, Not only the perpetrators, but also legislative, social and administrative measures are becoming increasingly important. In cases where the offence has meant the abandonment of hazardous waste, detection should be started consistently, as these acts are offences or crimes. Dear Parliament, A system should be put in place against today, in which each of the actors concerned has clear, clear and binding work to do in relation to illegal waste disposal, the necessary notification and the disposal of waste. The subject must also be introduced in the written and electronic press. This requires a number of new, thought-out legislation and changes in social and organisational practices. We are partners in this work either personally or through our experts. Thank you so much for listening.
u2019-03-05-16	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The reply to the statement by the Member before the agenda will be given by State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-03-05-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council. I think you raised a question, I will answer a question that concerns all of us, all of us responsibly, everyday citizens, and you are looking for a solution to this problem. But before I contribute with some data to the solution of the problem you have been pushing, and I would like to prove that the government has done everything in the past period, which was possible in order to ensure that shipments of waste are smooth, that waste is properly managed, that illegal landfills can be kept to a minimum, and that I would like to say a few things in order to prove that we have achieved significant results in the past period, and that we have done a great deal, both at government level and at municipal level, in order to eliminate illegal landfill sites, and to put waste on the side of the road, on the edge of the forest, in the right place. I would like to prove this by saying that for a number of years I have been the leader of a large city in Hungary, Nagykanizsa, and that we have been involved in countless such actions in the past or that period, and that the municipality has also made a small amount of money in order to place the waste heaps or the waste dumps that have been illegally dumped in the administrative territory of the municipality or in the district of the municipality at the disposal of the municipality at the disposal of the municipality. We've managed to move a lot of people, and that proves that people want to do something for our environment, they want to do something for cleanliness, for a clean environment. I believe that three very important factors need to be mentioned in order to remove the garbage from the wrong places, from the edge of roads, from the edge of forests, from places not designated as dumping sites. One of the most important things, in which, I believe, we have achieved very serious results in recent decades is the institutional system for waste and waste management. I think all of us who have seen this system work can prove that waste management is working very well in Hungary, that waste transport is properly organised, and that waste treatment, a recyclable part of waste, is being recycled in an appropriate way. The other very important thing you have mentioned is the elimination of illegal landfills and waste disposal sites by transporting waste from there, or the removal of waste on roads. And the third is thinking, and I think that's what we need to put the most emphasis on. Our government is already doing a great deal for children in school age, with the help of teachers, with the help of powerful help of this approach. But to give you some numbers as well, how you have managed, what you have achieved and how many results you have achieved in the past period, please accept these numbers. In 2012 the total amount of waste generated in Hungary, which is around 15 million tonnes 46 per cent, is approximately 37 per cent of the same amount of waste in 2016. [[8.40]] This is what I'm going to do with another data to prove that the difference is actually a sign of an increase in recycling. With regard to municipal waste, which was around 4 million tonnes in 2012, this was also reduced to well below 4 million tonnes in 2016, with a 15-percent reduction in the proportion of waste deposited. Thus, the amount of waste itself has also decreased and the amount of waste deposited in the landfill has also decreased. The fact that this reduced quantity did not end up on the side of the roads or on the edge of the forest is demonstrated by the following data: the amount of waste deposited has continuously decreased, while the proportion of recovered waste has increased significantly. This increased from 22 percent in 2014 to nearly 35 percent. Therefore, we have achieved significant results with regard to institutional waste transport and waste management. I have already mentioned a few words about thinking, but let me mention Action TeSzed!, in which significant results have been achieved. Let me say some of the numbers I just asked for this morning, although these are still not final figures, as you can still apply for the action, but it looks like this action will continue at more than 3,000 locations this year, and about 200,000 volunteers have already volunteered to take part in Action TeSzed!. So the sense of social responsibility is within people, it is within us, and it can be said that in the next period we are expected to achieve very good results in order to eliminate illegal landfills. Sorry for the delay, Mr. President. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-05-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, from the MSZP Group, spoke before the agenda with a title on current affairs. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-03-05-19	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State! Colleagues! On 1 March, the law amending the working conditions of the officials of the central offices entered into force, which provides, among other things, that the staff of the offices must be at work for 9 hours instead of 8 hours, and that their working hours have left their lunch break for half an hour. But they also lost their basic freedom: from 25 days to 20 days. It is not enough that immediately after the elections, after 20 June 2018, a staff stop was ordered in the institutions, in the administration, and then, at the end of the year, around November, nearly 7,000 people were separated, so they were fired. Reducing the fundamental freedom by five days means reducing the acquired rights of workers. In addition, the vulnerability of the staff of the officials concerned continued to increase, thanks to measures such as allowing the government official to be at the disposal of the head of the office during inter-work breaks, such as lunchtimes. And that's what the Hungarian Times called family-friendly government administration legislation at the end of the year. We're going to see a hell of a setback again. Every working day of the week, working hours for civil servants of the Directorate-General for Pensions start at 6:45 a.m. on 1 March. Yesterday, my fellow Members and I visited here and asked Mr. Director the question that today, in Hungary and especially in Budapest, there is a supply system that guarantees workers the right to arrive at work at 6:45 a.m. and can place their child in a nursery, kindergarten or school before 6:45 a.m. And that's not one of the biggest problems. They thought that if a worker had to make it to an office for 6:45 a.m., let's say when a child of kindergarten and kindergarten had to be woken in the morning. I know you don't care much about that, but I think one of the most important things is that these children get up at 5:30. Is it normal in Hungary to say that a child of kindergarten, kindergarten or school age should only wake up today at 5:30 because the parent is required to work at 6:45 a.m.? Further restrictions include the fact that government officials in the county and capital are no longer entitled to cafeteria. The fundamental freedom has been reduced from 25 days to 20 days, and it is not the time spent at work, but the position that determines the number of additional days off. It is true that we also heard from Director General yesterday that it is perfectly normal that the government has now settled the anomaly that there has been a worker whose freedom has reached 30-37 days, and that he said that it is perfectly normal that this should not happen from now on, because why would a worker have 36 days of freedom? Well, we were shocked to hear those sentences from the Director General. When we asked Mr. Director-General about the introduction of the slave law, he clearly replied that it was natural to do so. But let's see why this is happening. This kind of labour shortage, which we are experiencing in Hungary today, is clearly at the expense of the Fidesz-KDNP administration. You did not work after 2010 to strengthen the rights of workers against the employer, but your first step was to change the labour code completely. [[Dr. Pál Völner: How much better than unemployment!]] Then they constantly passed laws that destroyed the education system, the social care system, and basically encouraged young people today or even family people to leave abroad because of living problems. Here are some thoughts for you. It was a famous sentence from Congressman Zsiga Marcell in the walls of this House that it was possible to live on 47,000 forints in Hungary. Then John Lazarus said that everyone is worth as much as he has. Tamás Deutsch said recently that today workers in Hungary are happy to work overtime, and they will be happy to work overtime. One of the harshest restrictions in the current law is when an official will be obliged to work 12 hours a day without having to pay his salary. [[Németh Szilárd István: It's not true! You're lying, you're lying, you're lying!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary, read the law, and then you'll know I'm not lying, but that's true. And you are not working to shape the laws to protect workers, but to eviscerate more and more workers who have remained in our country. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-03-05-20	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-03-05-21	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me to respond to yesterday's action yesterday. We see that there is an interesting competition between opposition representatives in who can more spectacularly cross the boundaries of conduct. Yesterday, instead of working in Parliament, they tried to disrupt the work of a public institution again, even damaged a telephone booth. Looks like you can afford it. They do not expect government and pro-government politicians to participate in this poor comedy. We regret that they see the essence of their politics by misleading the Hungarians. They've been doing this charade for weeks, they're referring to employees, but they're actually being repeatedly misled. They have also been misled about the volunteering of overtime, the payments and the number of working days. Typically, two weeks ago, they went to a factory where they didn't even want to fill the current overtime budget. The question of civil servants is that you took a month's wages from them, while this government increases their wages. First, the wages of government officials increased by an average of 30 percent, and now the wages of those working in the central administration are rising to a similar extent. You have not mentioned this, but there are significant additional freedoms in the new legislation beyond the fundamental freedoms. And the cafeteria is embedded in increased wages. And there is one more thing: where was this concern when your ally, Ferenc Gyurcsány, openly threatened the ministry staff about a year ago, that if you were put into power, you would be fired, depending on whether you helped this government's work or not? [[Zsolt Gréczy: You've already fired them!]] Where was this sensitivity, honourable Member? And the labour code has changed several times in recent years, and the results are already visible: nearly 800,000 new jobs, increasing wages, which the government, for its part, wants to promote by reducing employers' taxes. [[8.50]] Gross and net average earnings increased by 10.2 percent compared to last year, which corresponds to a lot of a month's wages. Of course, we know that there is still a need for additional wage increases. On the other hand, what did you have to offer? Double unemployment, almost 12 percent unemployment, when you were in office, cuts, hundreds of thousands of cuts, stagnating economies and, of course, shameful privatisations. Now, they have put Hungarian workers in the most vulnerable position, and in many parts of the country we still feel the consequences. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You stole the whole country! Hundreds of thousands are gone! The president's ringing the bell.]] I would like to point out one more thing, that you have published your programme for the European elections. I may be the only one, but I have been going through this, and there are a lot of proposals in this programme that would give you serious powers to Brussels, and that deeper integration is the solution to European problems. This, of course, can mean a lot, but concrete proposals have also been made, such as proposing a European wage definition and a new employment agency in Brussels. The problem with that is that they would partially give us the right to decide on wages, in the hands of the nation states. By the way, Jobbik also tried this last year, with little success; because everyone knows very well that if we were to entrust Brussels with the determination of wages, then they would be more determined by the multi-enterprises, by the multi-companies, who have much more lobbying power in Brussels. [[Ander Balázs: Free American...]] We are not surprised that powers in the field of justice would be issued, but it is even more serious that in the case of migration, they still do not listen to the Hungarians' will, because the programme says that you are fighting for a European Union where you do not need fences to write this. So they still haven't given up the idea of tearing down the border lock in the future. They'd break the border lock just as much as the rules of Hungarian grammar, that's the case. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] They also say that there is no limit to solidarity, there is no limit to immigration policy. These are clear words, by the way, but very telling, because that is why you voted for resettlement quotas in the European Parliament. Madam Member, how can there not be a limit to solidarity? ! There is a limit when we are faced with plans that threaten not only the security of Hungary but also the security of Europe as a whole, and we believe that solidarity begins there to protect the communities closest to us, our communities, and the solution to other problems in the world can only come after that. So, in summary, I can tell you that we regret that however many times the Hungarians express their views, the MSZP learns nothing from this. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] to delegate powers to Brussels, and to make this worse, it would pursue the same irresponsible policy not only on immigration [[Zsolt Gréczy: 20 March!]] It's also about employees. That is the case, honourable Member. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-05-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group of the KDNP, entitled "Europe's Immunism', applied for a speech before the agenda. Mr. Team Leader, here you go. You have the floor.
u2019-03-05-23	Mr President, Dear House, If someone opens the lexicon, or if you like it, insert the word "immunity" into the search engine, you can read the following: "The body's defence mechanism, its main task is to distinguish its own and not its own, i.e. foreign materials, and to remove it when it encounters foreign matter. And we read about the immune system's illness: "The body considers its substances to be alien and attacks its own cells and organs."I do not want to talk about health issues, but about the similarity between the human body and the European continent. What we see is that some countries of Western Europe suffer from an immune disease because they have lost their ability to defend themselves and turn against their own bodies, that is to say, they allow in a foreign culture and deny their own cultural identity. A normal person is confused about this and asks what the reason is. When we want to respond, it is obviously historical, to be more precise: it is historical if they do so, we must give a worldview response in a different approach. The first roots of traditional European culture were cut during the Jacobine dictatorship. This attitude, which they experienced at that time, meant a lack of respect for human life, for they executed everyone who got in their way. This spirituality was also carried forward by the Communists, who have trampled on individual freedom, and in parallel with them the national socialists, who have distinguished between man and man, i.e. the universal human dignity has not been ignored, but I could mention the radical representatives of the generation 68, who have broken all norms. Today, however, the greatest damage is caused by the followers of the open society, and perhaps it is worth mentioning in more detail. They proclaim free choice among cultures living side by side, trying to replace traditional identity, and they attack the community, the cradle of traditional identity, so the family, the church, the nation. Instead of the family, they offer the lonely way of life and alternative living together, they try to discredit churches by all means, they also try to eliminate Christian symbols, and the nations... proclaim the united states of Europe, and we know that this has representatives in Hungary. So it's that the immune system doesn't work, they don't see the dangers of inflow, and by destroying themselves, they give way to conquest. When we talk about the diseases of the immune system, it's obvious that allergies are also mentioned. The problem is not necessarily the overweight of allergenic substances, but the disease of the immune system. It would have been easy to protect Europe from the masses, not in need of help, but from a more pleasant way of life, if we had kept our own values, our own culture, those that have evolved over the centuries and made Europe a Europe. Unfortunately, it's overwhelming, and that's what's causing our problems today. Europe's only hope is in Central Europe, because the process that has begun in Western Europe seems irreversible. We represent another healthy world, that is what we must preserve, and this must be passed on to the next generation, so that Europe can remain at least in this part of Europe. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-05-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Mr Soltész, State Secretary, will be the answer to Mr Fraction Manager's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-03-05-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, Indeed, the historical overview that characterizes the Western European and Hungarian parties, who claim to be democrats today, is quite clear. Clearly, the only way they can imagine democracy is that what they say is true, it is right, everyone who thinks differently, whether in Christianity, community, family, nation, even though it is despicable and to be attacked. That's what they do here in Parliament, that's what they do all over Western Europe, as well as all the political organizations and quotes I say are thinkers who attack Hungary in different ways. And what are they attacking the most? On the one hand, Christendom, the Christian community, the nation, and the families. If we look at what this community is doing to protect Christendom, to protect Christians in the Middle East, or in Africa, or anywhere in the world where Christians are persecuted, we can say nothing. They are such great democrats that they allow them to destroy those people, the nations, the people who take their faith all over the world, but they are not particularly interested in that. Of course, they were characterized by the same attitude during communism. [[9.00]] What is another clear destruction is the destruction of communities. Already in Hungary and across Europe, they like to refer to various civil society organisations, but let us say the number that is the real number and we need to know about it more than once. When they talk about civil society organisations in Hungary, they talk about 50-60 serialist organisations, while in Hungary there are 60-65 thousand civil society organisations, and they have nothing to do with Soros, they have nothing to do with 50-60 organisations that have nothing to do with anything but destruction and the destruction of communities. So when we talk about communities, we are talking about the 50-60-65 thousand organisations that support communities, people and Christian values in Hungary to a much greater extent. But there is also a third area, which is attacked by this policy, this social concept. And that's just family. Think about what they said and how some politicians in Western Europe have said in recent weeks, such as the English professor who spoke to the BBC, or the Hungarian politicians from the opposition, when the Prime Minister announced the family protection action plan. It's worth recalling a few things. For example, the Swedish Minister for Social Affairs said that the right-wing Hungarian Prime Minister against immigration wants women to stay by the stove and raise unpleasant associations about Germany in the 1930s. Tamás Mellar even nods at this amazing sentence or thought process. So, when a government wants to support young people by creating a home, by participating in the workplace, in the event that a woman wants to go back and in various other ways brings a lot of support into the system in eight years, and this is further strengthened by the new action plan, this is being attacked and not accepted. There was a British professor who said this: I think we really need to worry about governments that encourage them to have more children. In addition, he says to Hungary that if a large number of children are born in Hungary, there will be a large number of people dependent on others - children. Well, let's say it doesn't take a professor to make such a great statement, but to say something so stupid and attacking Hungary is amazing. It would be okay if only one or two foreign people had an opinion. But since this is the opinion of the Hungarian opposition, the Hungarian opposition also says that it is unnecessary to support families, for example, Tamás Melár said that it is a pity to support the increase in wages, because then they will replace the Frijidder, TV at home, and so on, and this will worsen Hungary's economic situation, because we have to import something. Congratulations, fantastic. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Quote where and when he said it!]] But it is now temporarily no longer stationed in Parliament, but it is also said by Bangoné, who is here and who is otherwise dangerous at work. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] What I have to say is completely unacceptable. The approach that you have said, Mr Honourable Group Leader, describes the opposition: they are both anti-family, national and non-communicative. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-05-26	Thank you very much. Mr László Böröcz applied for a speech from the Fidesz Group entitled "Our current affairs" before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-03-05-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On 28 February 2019 the European Commission published a new communication on the government's information action. In fact, it confirmed the existence of plans and proposals that would increase immigration in Europe. One of the statements in the Brussels resolution that legal migration opportunities must be guaranteed is very important. This is not a secret conspiracy, honourable Members, but an open cooperation to enhance immigration. Public resolutions, statements and minutes of vote available by everyone prove the government's claims. The European Commission takes the view that George Soros has nothing to do with this. This is contrary to the fact that the proposals previously published by the billionaire speculator are in line with Brussels' plans. It cannot be avoided that Soros has consulted the Commissioners in Brussels more than twenty times in recent years. All of the statements made by the Hungarian Government are statements based on facts that can be easily proven to everyone. The mandatory resettlement quota has been on the agenda in Brussels ever since 2015. The use of the so-called Juncker formula in the event of a migration wave with 1.2 million people per year arriving in Europe has foreseen the introduction of more than 15,000 people per year for Hungary. On 16 November 2017, the European Parliament voted in favour of the introduction of the quota, and the legislative process is ongoing. Brussels wants Member States to transfer part of their border protection rights to Frontex, thereby overwriting Member States' border protection rights. The European Commission is inexplicably denying plans for migrant visas. They do this despite the fact that Commissioner for Migration Dimitris Avramopulos stated years ago that the Commission is committed to proposing new solutions, in particular the possibility of developing a common approach to the issue of humanitarian visas. The fact that the Commission has not been able to deny in its last communication on the information action of the Hungarian Government that support for pro-immigration activist groups is increasing significantly in the EU budget cycle 2021-27. In its last resolution, the European Commission acknowledged that they themselves financed the migrant card programme. In its resolution published on 12 September 2018, the European Commission proposes that Member States launch pilot programmes with African countries to create legal migration. The European Commission is also not telling the truth when it claims that there is no correlation between financial support from the Union and support or rejection of migration. The Commission is exposing itself by admitting that the distribution of cohesion funds takes into account how many people have come to the country from outside the EU's borders since 2013. Ladies and gentlemen, Ferenc Gyurcsány, who also wants united European states, is at the top of the DK European Parliament list. He will represent the interests of Brussels in Hungary. Ferenc Gyurcsány said that there are no pro-immigration plans, while DK MEPs voted in favour of the migrant visa and compulsory resettlement quota. Gyurcsány uses his wife to strengthen his position, while the leader of the left remains Ferenc Gyurcsány. Ferenc Gyurcsány only needs the mandate in Brussels to obtain immunity. Gyurcsány's wife's company has won hundreds of millions of tenders from the European Commission. But you have something to tell Gyurcsány, because it turned out just yesterday that Interpol captured a wanted partner of Gyurcsány's wife. It can be seen that opposition parties are attacking the government's information action because they are pro-immigration and support Brussels' pro-immigration policy. Socialists, DK MEPs, also vote in favour of immigration plans in Brussels. They support the migrant visa and the introduction of a compulsory quota, the increase in support of Soros organisations, the legalisation of economic immigration and the punishment of countries that refuse to introduce migrants. Hungary needs MEPs who defend the interests of the Hungarian people today, not Brussels and the Soros network. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-05-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Böröcz, State Secretary Tamás Menczer, has responded to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2019-03-05-29	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I think, first of all, what is worth considering is that there is still migratory pressure. Because some people don't. The numbers, however, indicate otherwise. If you'll allow me, for last year, 270,000 immigrants arrived in Turkey in 2018, which shows a 50 percent increase compared to the 17th year. Cyprus and Spain have doubled the number of immigrants. And we have not yet talked about the fact that Turkey now has a total of about 4 million immigrants. And if you look at it in a broader context, there are about 30-35 million people in Europe's southern and eastern neighbourhood who can make a decision at any moment to move towards Europe because they have either left their country or have an internal refugee in their country or are still living in their country, but they already need humanitarian aid. [[9.10]] We know that Brussels wants to organise all this. The Hungarian information action, as you mentioned, is about presenting this intention in Brussels. However, Brussels has now begun to deny this, saying that they do not want to organise migration. So there is now a debate about these seven Hungarian points and these allegations. I would like to highlight some of these points and some of these allegations. Like you, I'd like to start with a mandatory resettlement quota. Who in Europe, in their senses, can question the fact that they want a compulsory resettlement quota in Brussels? I think it's nobody. We can recall that we Hungarians were brought before the European Court of Justice for refusing the compulsory resettlement quota. For example, in January 2018, Commissioner Avramopoulos said that it is unacceptable that some countries refuse to accept refugees, that we all have to share responsibility and burden in a proportionate way. So he was clearly talking about quota, but there are many more quotes like that that could be collected. We can also remember that when the quota was introduced, the decision of the European Council, which is the main decision-making body and the prime ministers and heads of state, was overwritten. There they decided on a voluntary quota, one level down they changed it into a mandatory one. Moreover, the Brussels Communication itself talks about Hungary's involvement in the decision. Of course, we rejected it, we voted no, but we were bound by it. And by the way, they say that there are very exciting things in the Brussels communication that only a small number of immigrants should have been admitted. This is not true either, because we know that it is a permanent mechanism, many tens and hundreds of thousands of people, and ultimately millions of people. I would like to quote one more sentence from the Brussels Communication: the Commission is working with the Member States to reduce the number of illegally arriving in Europe. Of course, because they want illegal immigration to be legalized and they want to organise legal routes. This is what the UN Global Migration Package is about, and that is why Brussels supported this UN package, which is what all other efforts are about. In some ways, it's exactly like telling the burglar that breaking and entering is an ugly thing, don't break into my home, but I'll arrange for you to get in, leave the door open, even send a car for you. In fact, this is what the Brussels intention shows. The Hungarian information campaign, a series of information posters and these campaigns want to present this intention in Brussels. And this could also be joined by the opposition, because, we can say, of course, it is a national interest, but the opposition does not join in, and indeed the situation is being stepped up, this information action is being attacked. In fact, it can be said that the opposition has taken every opportunity to attack matters that are important to the country in various ways, with quite astonishing thoroughness and precision. We already knew about the opposition that it was pro-immigration, and we also knew that it was inappropriate to lead the country, but now I would like to bring one more aspect here, based on the experience of the past period. What have we seen here lately? We saw a race to the door, a climbing to the wall, a parliamentary circus, and yesterday this came to a new part when opposition representatives started graffitiing on the street instead of on parliamentary work. [[Németh Szilárd István: Randalírozni.]] So it must also be said that they are pro-immigration and unfit to lead the country, otherwise it must be said that, unfortunately, the Hungarian opposition does not know the word 'dignity' by reputation. The Hungarian electorate's wise opinion is that, by the way, this opposition was not entrusted with the leadership of the country, but was entrusted to the current government and government parties to defend the country. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-05-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. We now have a joint debate on the successful implementation of the Hungarian appearance at the World Exhibition in Dubai in 2020 and on the provisions relating to certain international major events. The government referral is T/4998. Number 2 is available on the House's IT network. Dear Parliament, In the debate, I give the floor first to Mr Szabolcs Takács, State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office, the author of the bill. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-03-05-31	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, In the near future, two world events, the first urban world games to take place in Budapest this year, the World Urban Games in English, and the World Exhibition in Dubai in 2020, as well as a partly domestic European Championship, the 2022 Hungarian-Slovak Man's Handball Europe Championship, are considered to be an excellent opportunity to direct the world's and Europe's attention to our country, thus further building Hungary's image. I would like to present to you the necessary bill for the successful organisation of these three priority events. The World Exhibition in Dubai will take place between 20 October 2020 and 10 April 2021. This is the first world exhibition to be held in the wider Arab region. The theme of the Expo is to connect minds, create the future in the spirit of mobility, opportunities and sustainability. The organizers of the Expo expect some 25 million visitors during the six-month opening hours of the exhibition, and we plan to receive more than 2 million visitors for the Hungarian pavilion. Water will be the central theme of the Hungarian appearance. The general aim of the Hungarian appearance at the World Exhibition in Dubai in 2020 is to build country image and the tourist promotion of Hungary, including Budapest. According to our expectations, the presentation of Hungarian medicinal water and medicinal tourism, the emphasis on the Hungarian balneological features, is well able to position Hungary and Budapest in the Arab region, which is highly sensitive and interested in this topic. I think that we will have a good chance, as it can be said without exaggeration that Hungary is a great power in terms of the growing and increasingly successful gastronomy in addition to the field of sport in culture. In addition to the above, the world event, which takes place once every five years, is, of course, an excellent marketplace, i.e. a good opportunity to promote economic cooperation and boost trade relations, as well as to present Hungarian innovation developments and to promote Hungarian-Arabian diplomatic and cultural relations in general. Overall, the Expo is an important platform for the image building of nations. World exhibitions, like large-scale sporting events, offer a unique introduction opportunity for a country. Almost every state in the world participates as an exhibitor at the Dubai event, we believe that this should not be missed. The ideaative of the Hungarian pavilion will once again be made up of the spirit of Imre Makovecz. As far as the other two events are concerned, the government, in cooperation with the Mayor of Budapest, applied last year for the organisation of the so-called World Urban Games sport event announced by the general assembly of international sports associations. This international event will take place for the first time in the world. This February, the international owner announced Budapest as the winner of the competition, including Tokyo and Los Angeles. World Urban Games will be held in early September 2019. The main objective of the future world event, which will take place every two years, is to involve young people in sport so that sport goes to people and not to go to sports. That's why it's embedded in the city's fabric, with unconventional sports such as BMX freestyle, parkour or break dancing. In addition, the event will be not only a sports festival but also a music festival. In the case of the third event, the Hungarian-Slovakian European Handball Championship, which will take place between 14 and 29 January 2022, the necessary investments must be made in four local locations in Budapest, Szeged, Tatabány and Veszprém in good time. [[9.20]] The bill defines the cities where the European Championship is located, where there is a need to develop facilities, while the government is responsible for the assignment of the real estate for investments and events. We received the opportunity to organize the event in June 2018. So far, location selection and preparation have taken place, and investments will take some 26 months. In view of the time pressure, the successful execution of all three events can only be guaranteed if the preparation of the events can be carried out under simplified and accelerated legal conditions, according to the bill. In order to speed up and simplify public procurement procedures, the law allows for the fastest possible form of public procurement. Other rules of the Hungarian legal system ensure the legality of public procurement procedures, while ensuring that procurement is carried out more efficiently and quickly. In addition, in order to ensure transparency and competition, the law requires at least three tenderers to be invited to tender in any case. It also serves competition that the evaluation criterion for tenders can only be the lowest remuneration. Dear Parliament, In view of what has been said, I would like to ask you to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-05-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee and the minority opinion formulated there will now be presented in a total of 15 minutes' time frame, divided in accordance with house rules by eight minutes for the committee rapporteur and 7 minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion. I give the floor to László B. Nagy, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-03-05-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 4 March 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the successful implementation of the Hungarian appearance at the World Exhibition in Dubai in 2020 and the T/4998 on provisions relating to certain international major events. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report were adopted by 24 votes in favour, 6 votes against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The aim of the bill before us is to ensure that the performance of Hungary and the Hungarian people is presented to the world in the most smooth manner at the World Exhibition in Dubai in 2020, within the framework of the World Urban Games in 2019, the World Urban Games in the City, and the handball European Championship in 2022, organised jointly by Hungary and Slovakia. The draft removes obstacles to proper preparation and execution due to the close timing of events. Hungary has already proved many times that it is able to organize sports events on the world level, as well as tourism data show that the management and organisation of the Hungarian tourism sector is in the right hands. As a result, I call on my fellow Members to support the bill in terms of what has been said. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-05-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The minority opinion is presented by Congressman György Szilágyi, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2019-03-05-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, At the meeting of the Legislative Committee, the opposition parties made it clear that they did not support this law, and even considered it outrageous that they were trying to pass this law through Parliament in this way, and that was justified at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, where there was a serious debate. There are three essential aspects that prevent the opposition from supporting this law. One is the exceptional procedure, because we do not understand why three major events should be put into a law at all, and that at two events, one is the European Handball Championship, and the other is the World Exhibition in Dubai, which was known to be organized, the world exhibition was clear, it could have been prepared in time, there should not have been an exceptional procedure, in June 2018, it was already known that Hungary had applied for the event of 22 and that it had won this exceptional procedure together with Slovakia, we have no idea why it had to be pushed through this House in one day, because you would vote for it, this is clear, and what is the reason why this exceptional procedure had to be carried out. The other thing that is important is that you would now be asking for a blank vote, since you are giving zero information to your opposition representatives and even their own representatives. It is not possible to know how much money is spent on these events, what kind of facilities they want to build at all. There's nothing to know, and we asked you any questions yesterday, and we didn't get any answers. To mention only one example in this regard, when I asked what the amendment meant, that in the framework of the investment, the new multifunctional hall investment to be built on the property designated by the Government in Budapest, which serves as the venue for the matches of the Hungarian-Slovakian Hungarian handball European Championship in 2022, should be prepared and implemented in such a way that the new multifunctional hall is managed by a capital association. We asked what kind of hall they wanted, asked where they wanted to build it, and asked which was the one in the capital to name it. They refused to respond, so they refuse to answer anything and are asking Members to support this event. And such a bianco vote has been the case in the past, and was supported by the Jobbik Hungary Movement, because it believed you, for example, in the case of the World Water Championship. It's true they didn't do it there, at least there was a five-party settlement before any laws were filed. Of course, at this five-party meeting, you promised everything that the World Water Championship would be transparent, everything can be checked, and then there will be no theft, and everything will be fine here, because it is in the best interests of the country. We believed you, supported the World Water Championship all along, and then what happened? You have stolen, cheated, lied, and, even to this day, skeletons continue to fall out on investment and everything, because you have failed to keep your promises. But we still have experience, because if we are talking about a world exhibition, then the scandals and affairs of the 2015 World Exhibition in Milan continue to this day, and we have sent continuously to the 2015 World Exhibition, because the so-called shaman drum still hasn't returned home, yet more items... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: He's home!]] You have to make nearly 1 billion forints... [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Of course, he may be here, and he might be in Karcagon, but then maybe he won't, because we remember that in 2014 Csaba Hende was the president of the TAB, and yesterday he was in charge of the meeting, and he had to face it. They handed me over in Szombathely, there were state ministers, there was Géza Szőcs, that he would be set up in Szombathely to the state company for nearly 20,000 square meters to be set up there, and not there, but in Karcagon. That might even change a bit. And what's important is that I give you a few examples of why we believe you're going to use these big world events again to steal and stuff your buddies' pockets. So I'm going to read a piece or two of this law that you've submitted, okay? With regard to the project plan, it is here:. With regard to the procurement procedures to be carried out in connection with the Investment, the organisation and organisation of events and the Project, the contracting authority shall be entitled to apply the negotiated procedure without notice established under the Law on Public Procurement, in all cases of extreme urgency. This is the basis for you to be able to steal. And then they say things like that, in the same law, it's the following. It's very important. Listen up. In order to open, conclude and amend procurement procedures in connection with the project, the Minister responsible for public procurement does not require authorisation and their regularity is not verified by the Minister responsible for public procurement. So the Minister responsible for public procurement will also be removed from this whole procedure, so that even he can't check who will be the winner of these, who will take all the money. This is outrageous! This is typical of a dictatorship, not a rule of law or a democracy! [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches.]] [[9.30]] Then there is one: in the procurement procedures to be carried out in connection with the project, how much do you think the administrative deadline for the public procurement announcement is? It's a day's work. A day's work! I beg you, to submit this in a normal country, the XXI. In the century, it's just outrageous! And then we hadn't talked, and this is the last: is it possible to save 24,000 people in a country where we would have normal health every year, where almost 150 people have been frozen in the last winter, where people's livelihoods and well-being are far from those of Western European countries, where tens of thousands of children are starving every day, Mr. Secretary of State, tens of thousands of people! , whether a country needs such spectacle events, visual investments [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] To spend tens of billions of public money on this? In our opinion, no. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-05-36	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 30 to 30 minutes and the independent Members have a total time frame of 8 minutes. In the first round of speeches, the lead speakers will present the group's position within a 15-15-minute time frame by group of representatives. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr László B. Nagy. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-03-05-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The uniform aim of the bill before us is to ensure that the performance of Hungary and the Hungarian people is presented to the world in the most smooth manner, both in relation to the World Exhibition in Dubai in 2020, as in connection with the World Urban Games in Budapest, and within the framework of the Slovak-Hungarian double handball European Championship. In addition, the draft continues to aim to ensure that, due to the scarcity of time ahead of us... such large world events require considerable time, planning and execution time, and in normal procedures, these time intervals do not allow these events to take place at both the Dubai World Exhibition and the two domestic events. The Secretary of State has discussed the rules in detail, and I would not like to say this, but I would just like to draw attention to how important this is for Hungary and for the Hungarian people. This is the first world exhibition to be held as a Middle Eastern city in Dubai, which will be open to interested parties from 2020 to half a year. As has been said, more than 25 million people are expected to appear at this world exhibition. To sum up the experience so far in connection with the Milan World Exhibition, I think I have seen it personally, and all the information and international feedback say that the Milan World Exhibition was actually a success from a Hungarian perspective, it was actually beautiful, it had many visitors, and I think it has greatly enhanced Hungary's reputation. It is not by chance that the expansion of the tourist data that appears in the statistical offices today. By the way, 183 states will represent you at the World Exhibition in Dubai, and this figure shows that Hungary must be present successfully, that the investment must be completed for a while, and that we must go out to a world exhibition with thematic themes that will be able to show the attractiveness of Hungarian tourism to the world, in this part of the world, which is a very important target group for the Hungarian economy, tourism and industry. It was also said in the introduction that Hungary is a water power. Hungarian water experts, Hungarian water technologies, including health care, balneology, bath facilities, Hungary is not only one of the most important water powers in Central Europe, but also in Europe and the world. We should be able to demonstrate this, precisely in a country in which water is a limiting factor for the economy of the country, for the existence of people, which, in my opinion, will very much appreciate the emergence of the Hungarian water profession. The Tourist Agency as an operating body, in this bill, I think it's an appropriate choice. The Tourist Agency, with its operation, organisational form and so far its activities, predicts that all three events will be held in the right hands. It is no coincidence that the reports of the Tourism Agency and the statistical reports confirm that this is a very successful organisation, a very successful sector of the Hungarian economy, so I think that this will be in good hands. Sport events, especially prestigious international sporting events, as well as television and other online broadcasts, are also very important for us. Visiting sports-loving tourists will certainly take away Hungary's good reputation, the hospitality of Hungarian people, its gastronomy, the Hungarian products at all, and will greatly contribute to the success of Hungarian wines. I think that sports events, some of which, World Urban Games, only affect Budapest, but the Hungarian-Slovak European Championship will not only affect Budapest, but also several rural cities, including Szeged, where it is very important to convey the good news of the cities and the Hungarian countryside. These sporting events, if well organized, contribute to the introduction of Hungary's image in the world, its place in the world, its tourism and its beauty, and this is one of the best investments, I think, in tourism, when we attract foreigners with any sporting event or attraction. The best exports can be made with tourists, everyone knows that tourists in Hungary consume our export products at VAT prices, and this is a very good source of income for the state. I would also like to mention that opposition representatives have repeatedly mentioned the problems of the water world in their speeches. I don't see it that way. I think that the water world was such a breakthrough in Hungarian sports diplomacy and Hungarian sports life [[Intervention from opposition lines: 1,000 billion!]] Which is a milestone. I do not think that there were problems there, and I do not think that these allegations, which have been made, are real at all, but, apart from sounding interesting, I would remind you of the words of the president of the water world, that I do not think that the President represented pro-government propaganda when he said, I quote: "We all feel at home, in fantastic places, in front of crowded bleachers, in a wonderful atmosphere surrounded by the love of Hungarian people. Thanks to this, we have seen exceptional performances in all six sports. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I believe that a more eloquent example of the implementation of successful sporting events in Hungary should not be available, and this bill, which we are continuing to negotiate now, is intended to remove and reduce those bureaucratic obstacles, of course within all available Hungarian legislative frameworks, which allow these very, very important, national and all-important sporting events and exhibitions to be successfully organised according to Hungarian expectations, according to the expectations of Hungarian people. [[9.40]] That is why I would also ask my fellow Members, my fellow opposition Members, to support this bill in order to make Hungarian athletes and diplomatic successes grow older in Hungary. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-05-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr György Szilágyi. Here you go.
u2019-03-05-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. If I may, at the beginning of my speech, I would like to respond to one or two remarks made by the lead speaker of Fidesz. I was hoping to learn from your speech different data, different facts and more. But there was zero information and zero fact in what you said, unless we consider that one of the most important aspects of these three events may be, as you said, that Hungarian wines will be known to people, although we are talking about sporting events at the moment. No one has said, my honourable fellow Member, that the World Water Championship as an event has not been successful. But to say, for example, that the president of FINA has achieved such good results, the government has little to do with it, because the athletes who attended this event have achieved good results. [[László B. Nagy is shaking his head.]] Why? Viktor Orbán helped me, say, I don't know, in the 100-meter fast-swimming from behind, or what do you mean? I don't understand. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: The others understand! Zoltán Tessely: Everyone else understands!]] That you're saying this government had something to do with it. It had nothing to do with it. No one told me that this event, the World Cup itself, wasn't a successful event. Of course, it was successful, the question is how much it cost Hungary, or how much it would have cost Hungary if it hadn't been stolen. This is the big question about this event, not that we can arrange a world event, that we Hungarians are able to organize a major international sporting event! Of course we can. We are talented, hardworking, and can organize such world events. The question is that this is the best thing for Hungary right now, to organize such events, and the other question is how much it costs, so how much you steal through the oligarchs, because this is what happened...
u2019-03-05-40	Congressman, I'm asking you very nicely. Since there is no restraining judgment in this regard on the basis of which you have the right to make such a statement, [[Lajos Rig: It was a slumber, Mr. President.]] Presumably, it belongs to the freedom of its representatives. [[Lajos Rig: Resolves!]] But you can't say it even here in Parliament. Here you go.
u2019-03-05-41	Mr. President, consider me merely expressing my concern. However, more than that, so if there were a normal investigating authority in Hungary, these assumptions would be more than suspicious. But let's assume it's part of the matter, because right now, you're planning on having the same big events. Let's go through these events and see what we're talking about. The first thing we are talking about and what might be acceptable is the exceptional procedure, because, as we know, at World Urban Games it was decided in February 2019 that Hungary could settle it, so it was decided almost in the days, the exceptional procedure would be acceptable for this one event. The question here is also whether we know what we're going to do, because this will be the first. We don't have any basis for comparison. You can't even tell us right now, because we also asked you what kind of street sports events are going to be. Which you know is three times three basketball, maybe a break dance that came up, or scooter races and BMX. That's all there is to know, nothing more. That's four events. For the time being, it is not even possible to know what events are going to happen, nor is it possible to know what kind of event it will be, nor what interest it will be. The first, but you have already come forward, that Hungary must take this. I would add that the budget is zero, so we don't know anything about any amount, because you didn't tell us how much this three-day event would cost. Well, let's not forget we're talking about three days, three days. Then comes the 2022 handball European Championship, where the exceptional procedure no longer stops, since in July 2018 the decision was already made. You've known for almost a year that we're going to settle this. Then why do you have to move these things in such a hurry? We still have time for you to build and do everything else, because as we know from this amendment, you want multifunctional new halls, so you don't want to renovate old halls or anything like that. Here, too, the question arose as to whether he had calculated the operating costs for these multifunctional halls. We have raised the question of reservation several times, as these visual investments are constantly being made by the government and we are building large stadiums and everything else. Because this is the most important thing in Hungary today, because each settlement needs a stadium where Fideszes potenta can fight it, and Felcsút also needs a stadium in the garden of Viktor Orbán, because there is too much enthusiasm for everyone to go to the matches. It's just these stadiums, we told them when they started building them, they should be able to keep it up. I can't do this. You said that, oh, what Jobbik is talking about, what the opposition is talking about, how could they not be maintained, so many people in Hungary love sport and how good it is. Turns out we were right. The reason why the Tao Law had to be changed was that it was now possible to use the Tao for operation because they could not maintain these sports facilities, because they started building unconventionally and without reason. Of course, from the country's point of view, it counts as mindless, because you have thought very well about how much money your friends can put away from these stadiums in conditional mode, and how much of the investment costs they can put in their pockets and planning and everything else. So again, we don't know anything about what operation they're expecting. Of course we would know, when they don't even tell us where they're going to build them in Budapest, which association will get them. Then László B. Nagy mentioned that the Tourist Agency would have the right hands. Yeah, because as we all know, tourism has been in very good hands for years. I mean, who has the tourism in their hands? In the hands of the Prime Minister's daughter, Rachel Orbán, the tourism is as it is, en bloc, so we can really say that in the hands of the daughter of the leading girl with the bright eyes, indeed, the Tourism Agency will probably be in the right place. I've talked about two events, but let's talk about the world show. Perhaps the world's exhibition is the most interesting, since there is plenty of experience in it. We can tell you what happened, and you could have prepared for it, so in the case of the world's exhibition there is no justification for the exceptional procedure, because I guess you didn't learn yesterday that there will be a world exhibition in Dubai in 2020, and we want to participate in it. 'Cause if they found out yesterday or the day before yesterday, it's understandable that there's an exceptional procedure. Only when I think back and we talk a little bit about the experience of the 2015 World Exhibition, because it is worth comparing to the current situation, then you will also see that at the time, Géza Szőcs drew the attention of the government a long time ago that this should not be done as it was done in Milan. They accepted this proposal because they didn't even leave as much time as they did for the Milan World Exhibition. They have just halved this time to make it even more possible to do exceptional procedures and similar things, such as those which I have already read in the presentation of the minority opinion, when public procurement procedures can almost be omitted, and also the Minister responsible for public procurement can be excluded from any decision-making process. So the world exhibition, as is generally well known, is an event that is well predictable and well planned, since it takes place cyclically, not often, the country that has been awarded the right to direct is well known in advance. The themes of individual world exhibitions are also pre-recorded. Based on all this, we can say that a world show should not be unexpected or unexpected. Yet, as I read the bill before us, I had the impression that the Government of Hungary, the officials responsible for the case, on Friday, was surprised that in just 14 months Hungary would appear at the world exhibition, at an event where every country and nation is trying to show itself literally to the whole world, what it thinks is the best of itself. We will attend an event where exhibitors will show what they are most proud of on the subject, which they would like to identify with the country. They're trying to show us something unique and special. With us, as I see it now, this unique and unique haste, the opaque spending of money, the incompetence; stealing the greater amount of public money can be the unique case that we intend to show the world. [[9.50]] There's something unique and special, something great and noble that everyone who exhibits at this event wants to show you. Well, that's what we're gonna do. Hungary has participated in a world exhibition with the responsibility of the government managed by Fidesz to prepare the exhibition, select the national gazebo and define the things presented there. This was the 2015 Milan World Exhibition, which has already been mentioned quite a lot, the results of which are, of course, raised by the government responsible for the participation, we heard this yesterday, while everyone else who has an open eye on this earth is seriously questioning it. In order to learn lessons, let's review the events of recent years and participation in the latest World Exhibition, its public, well-known moments in chronological order. So this is the 2015 Milan World Exhibition and we are talking about the beginning of 2013: two years before the World Exhibition, Géza Szőcs will be appointed as government commissioner, which means that he will arrange, organise and answer to Hungarian participation in the World Exhibition in Milan in 2015. The appointment will be given to the Prime Minister just two years before the opening. In the third quarter of 2013, Géza Szőcs stated in several places that due to the short time available, it is no longer possible to conduct a design contest, the regulatory environment is complicated, and the legislation provides for lengthy and complex procedures for the use of public funds. On the basis of this justification, a visual contest will be launched, of which, among the three award winners, the Commissioner himself has chosen the work to be carried out, despite protests from the integrity of the architecture industry and from a significant part of society. At the end of 2013... [[B. To László Nagy:]] I see Congressman shaking his head; I'll tell you what the architecture department said about this, okay? And I'll tell you what the designer himself said about all this, in case you change your mind. So we are at the end of 2013, and the scandals about the tender, the execution and the preparation have been reversed by the Commissioner of the Government by wanting to do the best he can in the time at his disposal, and he will do so until the opening, but at the same time at the end of 2013, he drew everyone's attention, including the attention of the government, to pay attention in 2020. Géza Szőcs said in 2013 that preparation for the World Exhibition in 2020 should start much earlier, planning contests should be conducted so that we can really show the best of the country to the world. Well, they didn't take the advice of Géza Szőcs, and he's not even a opposition politician. In my view, it was a covert recognition of the fact that the preparation at that time took place in haste, that it was insufficient professionally, and that, because of the haste and constant time disorder, the rules on public spending in force at that time had to be ignored, as is the case now. We'll rule everything out, and we'll do it the same way we've done it before. The Hungarian pavilion, which was completed in 2015, was only published in a press, so I am not making it up, and I would like to quote the opinion published in the press. The opinion was published in the form of a communication by the Department of Public Building Design of the Faculty of Architecture of the Budapest University of Technology. I don't suppose you're arguing that the opinion I'm about to read comes from professional experts, so I think you're better at it than a Member of Parliament. They published the following in their communication:, we express our firm protest against the concept of implementation being defined as an architectural creation at all in its present known form. Architecture is a profession and profession, and there are criteria for which this concept does not correspond. We object to a cheesy architectural parody representing Hungary on the international stage, because this would be contrary to the interests of the country, all of us. I repeat, this was a statement from the Public Building Design Department of the Faculty of Architecture of the Budapest University of Technology. After all, consider that the remains of the less glorious 2015 World Exhibition may not be exaggeration if I use the word that the government wishes to place its ruins in one of its most loyal obsitos, Sándor Fazekas, in his narrowest Patriot, in Karcag. I have already written that although Csaba Hende had already made a groundbreaking statement about this in Szombathely. I only hope that the municipality of Szombathely will not forget to ask for the 20,000 square meters of land donated to the state company in the hussars' barracks to be built there. I hope the city of Szombathely wants this back. And it was also announced that the inauguration of this building will take place in Szombathely in July 2016, and then, at the moment, it looks like it might not be there, but rather Karcagon. But I'm telling you, with a receipt, we'll see. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] What happened?
u2019-03-05-42	The lead speakers' time frame is 15 minutes, but after that, it'll be 15 minutes.
u2019-03-05-43	Thank you very much. I'll keep going, because I have more to say. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-05-44	Thank you, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-03-05-45	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I am very surprised that György Szilágyi is still in the room, because he told me that he is aware of all kinds of crimes and theft, and that he has an obligation to report it, not only his task and opportunity, but also his duty. So I thought he was long gone to the police after his speech, for he slandered and accused me in ways that he had neither evidence nor any tangible evidence that would justify anything he had said. But György Szilágyi is still in our midst. [[György Szilágyi: And I will be here!]] I am sorry that you have taken over from the socialists and the pro-Gyurcsány people this slogan and this attitude. It is a pity that we cannot now argue about this current bill by having an experience in organising a world exhibition, and we can now use it in the current bill. In the '90s, the great construction of the MSZP-SZDSZ drilled this idea, and they told us not to organise a world exhibition, as they then drilled it so that we wouldn't organize an Olympic Olympics, so that we would get the opposition to be small. This was also felt from the part of his speech about World Urban Games, when his objection was that it was the first, and, oh, my God, what is going to happen now, we are not able to organize something for the first time, we are not able to create a tradition, we are not able to show the world that for the first time it can be set very high, it can be done well. You're looking for a security game to go through a few years, organize it here and there, and then we can end up in line, see if there's anything out of the glory for us. We do not agree with that, Congressman, but we believe that we must be involved in these things. We believe that the Hungarian nation is destined for much, and is able to show the cultural, identity and touristic strength of what is here in the Carpathian Basin, and which has lived with us during our thousand-year history, and we would like it to be not only an inheritance, but also a future. In this spirit, we are preparing for these events, and in this spirit we are also discussing this bill. He asked me about World Urban Games, what sports there are. Roller skates, skateboards, BMX, three times three basketballs, and Hungarian innovation, eqball also appears in addition to the break dance. That's six sports right there. I have to disappoint you: there will be no running and climbing on the stairs, unfortunately this will be missed in this year as well. But I think there is a very great opportunity for the country to place its card in these unusual, slightly more extreme sports, as Hungary has not yet organised any such competition in these sports, only at regional or national level, at global level. Therefore, I think this is an excellent opportunity. And it's also a big deal that we beat Los Angeles, and instead of Los Angeles, the World Federation decided to host this competition in Budapest. It's definitely a huge thing. And I think we can present to Budapest the youthful face, the startup center, the world of innovative ideas that characterize our capital. [[10.00]] I think that for many young people this will also serve as a later destination. So much for extreme sports. The deadline here is extremely short, so it is obvious that any reduction in bureaucracy or provision of the bill that will help to start planning and implementation is necessary. I think this is extremely important. Did my fellow Member mention the water world for a moment, which is how to put it? I was a little surprised because the president of the World Union said that this was the best world championship ever. He didn't say that this is where the athletes got the best results, or that this is where the 100-meter butterfly fell, but the best staged. He talked about the Hungarian direction, praised the Hungarian direction, praised the development of the facilities, praised the directors, praised the locations, praised the giant tower jump against Parliament, praised the City Park, praised the Danube Arena, and praised the fact that the Hungarian organizers created the best water club of all time in a short time. I think that a Hungarian Member of Parliament is questioning this [[György Szilágyi: How much? Zsolt Gréczy: 100 billion instead of 25! Half the higher education budget! The president's ringing the bell.]] And don't thank the organizers, the volunteers, the athletes, the trade unions with the greatest thanks, it's an inappropriate behavior. From here, from the pro-government benches, we would like to thank the organizers, volunteers, athletes and professionals for being able to achieve this truly global event, which the president of the World Alliance said was the most organized event. [[György Szilágyi: How much?]] He didn't talk about the results, the results depend on the athletes, we had to be able to organize the best environment and the best competitions. This is precisely what the European Handball Championship is connected to, which I would like to bring in another line: I think that it can strengthen our relationship with our northern neighbour that it is a joint settlement, and that Hungary can organise this World Championship together with Slovakia for further trips and dialogue. This is where my colleague referred to the new multifunctional hall. There's no secret here at all, it's gonna be a multifunctional hall of 20,000 people. We know exactly that when the Papp László Budapest Sport Arena was built after the BS sunburn, it was an arena of 12 500 seats, with less capacity, and how many programs are realized, cultural, sports, music, art productions, fairs and expos are currently being implemented in the sports arena. If you go up to the website of Papp László Budapest Sportarena, you can see in the event that the earliest event you can buy tickets for will start tomorrow, and you can buy tickets for concerts all the way to January 2020 because basically almost every day or every other day because the previous day is the building company, because there is a program in the Papp László Sport Arena, a lot of programs, world-class events, Expo and concerts are coming here. The fact is that this is constantly increasing the reputation of Budapest, as there are a lot of concerts that come from several countries, let's say from nearby countries, Austria, Slovakia and Croatia. Since the Budapest Arena is so busy, obviously the new multifunctional hall will be a little bigger, with 20,000 people and not only built on the European Championship, it is now the primary function, and it will also have to start designing, public procurement and implementing it later in the summer to become something for the European Championship, and then it will be clearly operational and sustainable because of the high number of cultural events. There are still world-class productions, orchestras, concerts that cancel the Budapest station on their tour, or don't put it in because the Budapest Arena is so overwhelmed that they can't fit into the event calendar, or because they have less capacity to host, and we are talking about a greater capacity. The government has also made it quite clear that the location is currently not public because the state has to buy that area, and you do not represent the national interest if you want to disclose a location where, for example, the seller or certain circles would be able to charge the price, and it would not be possible to make a reasonable deal otherwise. I think it is in the national interest that the state can buy this at a normal market price, and then, when the application is launched, they can also tell us the location. [[György Szilágyi: Why is the association secret?]] Here not only Budapest is affected by the development of the handball European Championship, but also the cities of Veszprém, Tatabánya and Szeged. These are all Hungarian cities with a large handball past. I think that each has a high-quality, world-class handball team, so it is obviously worthy that these places will be chosen and the reputation of the Tatabányas, Veszprém, Budapest and Szeged handball will be enhanced by the fact that the European Championship matches will be held. The Member also read a pass from the current legislative text on public procurement. I don't understand why it pains you that when it comes to acceleration, it says that the only criterion remains the lowest price. So this is the most important guarantee of any question you have mentioned, that you will be able to decide on the lowest price. [[György Szilágyi: Two out of three companies give a higher price, the friends, and...]] I understand that this is how it works in your world...
u2019-03-05-46	Excuse me, Congressman. Congressman Szilágyi, you are currently the clerk-in-Office. I'm asking you to sit next to me. When he responds, I'll allow you to go down again. Have a seat next to me. [[György Szilágyi: Mr President! You told me to stay down! It seems that private conversations cannot be made... György Szilágyi, heading for the presidential pulpit: I will go up until then!]] Mr. Congressman, I told you to stay down until your speaker's speech came out. If you'd like to come up here, and when you have to respond, you can go down again. [[György Szilágyi takes a seat in the notary seat.]]
u2019-03-05-47	Thank you very much. I didn't quite understand your insinuation, but I'm sure the way it works in the gaming machine world doesn't work for us, ask your relatives about it, who are wanted for disorderly conduct, or those who trade gaming machines, ask them. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks. It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks. Zsolt Gréczy: Voldemort!]] I would like to say that I am surprised that you are constantly attacking projects that would strengthen the feeling of national pride and national cohesion. I think that our nation needs these joint successes, which are, by the way, the achievements achieved by our athletes, when there is an art competition, when there is a competition for vocational training, when there is a competition for science, and they bring home to Hungary, or in Hungary, our athletes, artists, and fellow Hungarian compatriots who compete in scientific competition, that I think that our country, our nation, needs these feelings. In fact, we also need joint successes in the settlement, as the water world, as the Olympics could have been, which, with your help, they changed their earlier promises... not the Jobbik, the Balliberal opposition, and they drilled this Olympics. We can see how successful these initiatives are, as the Members of Parliament of the Momentum are now gathered in the benches, so successful in their action. I think that these events that promote national pride and belonging do need our country. I do not understand why you do not start with this, and why you do not say that it is important to have a pavilion of Hungarian identity, Hungarian culture, traditions and the Hungarian future, where over a million people have turned in Milan, and perhaps one and a half million people have turned to our Milan pavilion at the latest world exhibition. In addition, Hungary has an incredibly large history of world exhibitions, since we were present 100-150 years ago. And when we see in Western Europe that national identity is losing, they are trying to wipe out the borders of the nation states, try to forget the national identity a little bit, and Brussels bureaucrats get to their hearts when, in a football match, people who sing their national anthems, waving national flags, are there, they realize that they have not finished their work yet, and we still believe that in Central Europe there is hope that these national identities, the nation states, will remain. If we can talk about this, and we need these events, then why don't you start with that, and we just need to show that we have a strong identity, we have a very strong history, we have traditions, we have a culture that we want to show the world. This is why it is important that the pavilion of the World Exhibition in Dubai is somehow connected to the Makovecz heritage. It does not blend into the thousand types of metal and glass pavilions there, and it is only from the flag that you can see in which country you are walking, that it is the Finnish or Swedish now, because we cannot, so it cannot be established from the outside, but a marked pavilion related to Hungarian history, culture and motives can be presented to millions of people, and we can tell you that Hungary is such a place that takes on its identity, takes on its history, takes on its culture, rather than undertake it, but is proud of it, too, that it wants to preserve for the future that it is not only heritage, but also a future. This is a very important aspect, and that is why you should support us to participate fully in this world's exhibition, to show what we are proud of, to show our values, to stand before the world, and to show that it is worth visiting us, for whatever reason. And what you've said here, Secretary of State, is balneology, our healing waters, gastronomy, culture, they're all leading sectors. [[10.10]] Tourism has produced figures in recent years that you have not yet been able to deliver, even though you are regularly confronted with reality, and you have not even been able to get rid of the incredible growth in tourism not only in Budapest, but in Hungary as a whole. This is also due to security, it must also be said, and it must also be shown that we have security, we have culture, we have tradition, and we have security, and we are proud of the values for which our predecessors have fought, and we have a duty to preserve. This is what this bill is all about, therefore, that it is our duty to strengthen and even strengthen the sense of national pride and national cohesion. It is about the fact that there are three events ahead of us to achieve this, and two events in which we can involve the Hungarian audience, because it will be here in Hungary, and one will be able to show these values in front of the world outside Hungary. That is why the Christian Democrats are in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-05-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The DK Group indicated that the group's position would be presented by two of its representatives. First, I give the floor to Congressman László Hajdu. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-03-05-49	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Yesterday, we discussed the law at the TAB meeting. I must say, it was a surprise to me that the TAB had a meeting on Thursday, and on Thursday afternoon no one knew that we had to meet for an extraordinary meeting on Monday. I suppose this is just an indicator of the design of the government proposal, that, in that time, a single working day on Friday, say, half a day, half a day, is such a change that a law of this magnitude comes before Parliament, which contains only 16 paragraphs, but which is 16 paragraphs about very serious things, as Congressman Szilágyi has already preceded me, has said a series of questions from what I have to say, so I will speak out of outline, because I do not want to repeat the same thoughts. The reason for this exceptional procedure was also justified by the Secretary of State at the committee meeting and is justified now. I must add, in agreement with Mr Szilágyi, that this justification cannot be accepted. In particular, it cannot be accepted if I consider that, in the case of Dubai, we have known that there will be a world exhibition since 2017, and five years has not been enough for the government to make a normal presentation, not with urgency, or with a design contest, with many other democratic means that we have, a very nice thing to do there, in Dubai, on the other side of the world. This Exhibition type A should not be as ashamed as the case in Milan was said earlier, which no one knew at the start what it would cost. Finally, Milan cost HUF 9 billion and the Italians did not want it. No one wanted it, so we had to bring it home because we built one of those ugly things out of 9 billion forints. That is why we fear what this Dubai is, what it is because of urgency; we are late, we must be ready by August. The urgency is said to be justified by the fact that we have known since 2017, but this should be completed by August this year or by October at the latest. If the government knew that there was such a task, then I think they would wake up here from a long, deep winter sleep, or there was some other problem besides negligence, maybe there was no money. Somewhere along the way, money came in, and reading the journals, some money came from Moscow for a considerable amount of money. Maybe it's because we had the money, and that's when we had to bring it here so urgently. You just think because you don't get information. I wanted to mention, in any case, that the government had already taken a decision in this Dubai case in 2017, with 700 million forints for planning. This 700 million, I suppose, has been spent. This should have been brought to Parliament in 2018. This didn't come here. We don't know what's going on with that 700 million. So there's a government decision here, and the urgency, by the way, is annihilated by the fact that it might still be here. In this law, this Hungarian Tourism Office Zrt. appears in an interesting way, moving forward with this project to an exceptional corporate legal status that receives ministerial rights. You can say that, in agreement with what my fellow Member Szilágyi quoted from the law, the Minister has no right, nor does this company have to ask the Minister's opinion, such as on public procurement. The other excuse for both Dubai and the many other things here is to touch it if the Ptk. a stable law here in Hungary on the Public Procurement Act, if the Public Procurement Act can only be touched at any time. And this derogation from the Public Procurement Act is a serious derogation. Today, every municipal government has a local public procurement decree. If any of the 3186 municipalities would dare to do so, that they would deviate from their own procurement regulations, well, they would. That mayor, that body of representatives, would be subject to retortion. The government may deviate from its own decree, its own law, the Public Procurement Act, and not determine how far it may go. There is no limit to this, we may have completely deviated, although the Secretary of State said yesterday that this is not an amendment. It's the law, the T/4998. The law that we are discussing is a law in itself, so we are diverging, so we are amending the law in some way. But how are we going to undo this? What is it that amends this law so that public procurement, public money, will be awarded in a normal process afterwards? The main problem is, not only about Dubai, so about the world show and the sports hall or this city world game, that no financial plan has been submitted here, we do not know what 100 billion, 80 billion, 50 billion will cost this whole package, which is defined in this law. No one knows that. Why is it a secret? Because here we heard a justification from Congressman Nacsa first, that we cannot know which property is in Budapest, where the sports hall will rise, because then the value will be increased. It's not a problem for this government, it's a public interest assignment, and there's no-- everyone knows it's the Népliget site, and it's definitely going to be built there, but it's classified. I suppose it's secret in Tatabány, as well as in Veszprém, as well as secret in Szeged, and they didn't ask the municipality as much as they didn't ask in Budapest. And while we're here, I'm curious that this particular city world games game program, which is being implemented here, how many districts it affects, how much commotion it will bring to Budapest and the capital doesn't know about it officially. A single Commission proposal was not discussed and nothing was discussed. This comes to the capital by saying that in September, when the children's teaching begins, so the biggest traffic in the city is, then such a world race on the streets, on the squares or we don't know where it takes place. There is no presentation of this; what this will involve in the paralysis of the city is nothing to be said about. By the way, I asked him about this yesterday at the committee meeting, and Mr. Secretary of State didn't comment on it, he didn't give me an answer. [[10.20]] I think that if the city's leaders, the city's representatives don't know about it, it's a bit like the world water championship we've already mentioned, where communication, the city's leadership didn't know about it, so I know exactly how the water world championship was prepared. But at least at the World Water Championship, they did that, that the parliamentary parties were called together, and there was a meeting with the parliamentary parties. Now, even the formal status of having at least one of these parliamentary multi-party negotiations on this serious issue, which we do not know how many billions, has not been granted. Congressman Nacsa, we don't know. You didn't give me a number. You said there'd be 20,000 spectators, but how many thousand spectators his tatabans are, they're not, and how many billions, they're not. We know that the Szombathely cost 16 billion forints. It was 16 billion on Saturday, but that wasn't it when we left. This could end up at 25 billion or 30 billion. We don't know anything about him. We give bienkos without knowing what we're pressing. So saying yes to the Democratic Coalition would be a gamble, I think that would be treason. It can't be done, I think. The other is very important in this law, so that I do not repeat the speakers before me, that this law is about such great events. Plus, if there's big events, big events like that, why is it so quiet, so deep in silence. There's no way to know that we're going to do this, and there are no articles, not even in the government press. I, too, must mention and object to the fact that it is in the law that a certain association is going to own it, for example, in the case of the capital, I believe that this is also happening in rural places in this particular multifunctional sports hall. To get the ownership of this, the right of the operator, it doesn't exactly come out. That he has to manage it, and then it will collapse, or the government will support it with big money, who, of course, is the lucky one who will get it, nothing will come out of this legislative proposal. In fact, it is not because of anti-sportsism, anti-culturalism or anti-imageism, but simply because of the dark obscurity laid down in this law that the Democratic Coalition cannot support. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-05-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Zsolt Gréczy will continue his speech, and he will have the opportunity to continue, as appropriate, after 15 minutes, within the framework of the ordinary speeches. Here you go.
u2019-03-05-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to add that because the technical objections were basically said that there is a strong suspicion that theft is happening again. Some will fight, and we have experienced all the morality of this in recent years. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Altus is not included!]] I would like to point out to Congressman Nacsa in this time frame, which I am currently at the disposal of, that we no longer act as if Hungary had not been before Fidesz. Before Fidesz Hungary organized sports competitions in the same way, not just any sport competitions, such as swimming-Eb during the Gyurcsány government, the Medgyessy government athletic European Championship, the kayak-kenu World Championship. So let's not pretend that Hungary has just received the blessing of organizing sports competitions and that no one has ever done anything before. Before the change of regime, there was an athletic European Championship, a wrestling world championship and an indoor athletics European Championship, and I could tell you a long time. So, let's not pretend that the country image or the Hungarian national feeling, or that Hungarian competitors in Hungary can prove their worth and gain gold medals, this was discovered by the Fidesz government, and we have such a fantastic sports-centred government that finally discovered this, and everyone who existed in Hungary before them and brought these sports competitions here has actually done such additional actions. No! Hungarians also cheered for Hungarian athletes when it was not the Orbán government. Even then, these halls were full, and the athletic courts were full, and the stadiums were full. I think that was okay. What is a fundamental problem here, however, is that the Hungarian pavilion failed specifically at the world exhibition in Turin. Géza Szőcs himself admitted that they were involved in extremely awkward situations. [[Interviews from Fidesz: Milan!]] [[Interviews from Fidesz: Milan!]] Géza Szőcs said several times that they were involved in extremely embarrassing situations at the World Exhibition in Turin. (Intercoms from the ranks of Fidesz: Milan!) The basic cost of the last World Water Championship started at 25 billion. It ended in 100 billion, and it's official, but we don't really know how much. You only spent 3 billion forints officially on a one-hour event for the closing ceremony. Out of 3 billion forints, all hungry Hungarian children could have had free food for a year. [[Nacsa Lawrence:]] No one believes you that an event like this, a one-hour event, costs 3 billion. What? The performer or the cheerleader? Or did fireworks cost 3 billion? Everyone knows that these money is hand-to-hand, so they go where they go. Besides, these investments are known, since there are company owners in Viktor Orbán's spitting box in Felcsút, who create these halls and sports facilities, but I can also make an interesting exception. I am very pleased that, for example, one of the places of the handball European Championship will be Veszprém. This is obviously the Veszprém Arena the Veszprém Arena was built by the Gyurcsány government. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-05-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. Now we're going to have proper speeches. Now we're gonna have a chance for the clerk-in-chief. [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: Be on your way. Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Mr Szilágyi and Mr Szilágyi, to prepare for their own place and go down. [[György Szilágyi: I'll wait for the last moment.]] Member Lóránt Keresztes asked for the floor of the LMP Group.
u2019-03-05-53	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. This debate is an interesting direction. I feel it's the least we could do with specifics, especially in the last 15 minutes, half an hour. I will try not to repeat what has been said by the Members who have spoken before me, but I would like to ask specific questions. I would like to start by saying to Mr Szilágyi, Mr President-in-Office [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] I thank you for your credible representation of the minority opposition position of the Legislative Committee. Indeed, there was also a justification for why this urgency procedure should be applied, but this justification could not be accepted. In any case, we have not heard any arguments that would confirm that this is justified. It was also clear from today's speeches and yesterday's debate on the Legislative Committee that opposition representatives have basically no problems with the events displayed, not with sporting events being held, or we represent Hungary completely of course at the World Exhibition, and we do so in such a way that it is the most important way to express our national identity. There's nothing wrong with that. Members of the opposition have already said that there would have been plenty of time for the government to prepare for these events, and then there should not be procedures that clearly and clearly increase costs, increase the risk of corruption and make transparency almost impossible. Congressman Nacsa made reference to why opposition representatives or even Member Szilágyi did not press charges. I can't figure out how many cases the LMP has filed over the last few years, how many corruption cases. In some cases this was conceived, there was a procedure afterwards, and in some cases there is already a consequence, but I can say that when there are independent investigative authorities in Hungary, there will also be real accountability. So I think that both the representatives of the LMP and the representatives of Jobbik have done their duty in this respect. We have heard relatively much about the World Exhibition and the European Championship in the Legislative Committee, as well as at this meeting. In relation to these, I think everyone has information about the nature of these events. At the same time, we have heard very little about these particular city world games. This is by far the smallest of the three events with the smallest budget. At the same time, I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow opposition Members to the fact that we have certain specific features, the costs and the cost of the government's thinking. In 2018, the government announced in a government decision that it would spend HUF 100 million on the tender and would spend HUF 2.9 billion on the implementation if the tender was successful and Budapest won the settlement. So we have information from the end of last year that this three-day event will cost HUF 3 billion. I would like to ask this specifically, because I think it is an extremely high budget for a three-day event. Yesterday, in the Legislative Committee, a pro-government representative made an argument, and I quote: "Every forint spent on sport is the best and most efficient investment, the most effective investment in health. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[10.30]] So this event was linked to health aspects. Now, if we calculate that they will spend 3 billion forints in 3 days, if we use the medical analogy that the government representatives have brought up, that means that you intend to spend 150 new ambulances for the 3-day event. If such a commitment has been made, and it has been done, because the government has decided on the proposal and decided on the 3 billion forints, then I think they have determined the criteria, the specific, precise indicators, on the basis of which you have considered that this investment is worth it in this respect. I would like to know exactly what else there is to know about this event, the city world games, what aspects have been defined, what specific metrics have been determined, and how, based on the figures, they can confirm that such an event serving health interests is worth it with a budget of HUF 3 billion. I would like to ask you exactly what else is there to know in detail about urban world games, what indicators have been identified and how they can justify this. What I can say in general, I repeat, is that it is not a problem that we are involved in organising such events, but because of the procedures and precisely because of the unjustified procedures, because of the increased risk of corruption, the LMP will not be able to support this proposal either. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-05-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Now I'll ask György Szilágyi to speak. [[György Szilágyi, in his place of notary: Yes, thank you very much.]] Then go to your seat, put your card in, don't leave that here. I'll wait for him to come to his place. [[It's happening.]] There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-03-05-55	Firstly, I would like to thank Mr President very much for allowing me to speak once again as an elected Member and notary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to a few things, especially the speech by Lőrinc Nacsa. This is where one or two things were said on behalf of the Member. One of them is that there's gonna be a 20,000 stadium [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Hall.]] a hall, a multifunctional hall, and that for the world's exhibition, a Makovecz Pavilion. But, Congressman, how do you know? Because we don't know. So you've given us, not the government, not anyone, zero information on this. You also know where the venue will be, you also know how big a hall is being built, you also know that the world's exhibition will have a Makovecz-style hall that we could be proud of. Well, let's be proud, too. Tell me. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I just told you.]] They just won't tell me. Congressman, please tell me where these are written. Where's a reference in the law anyway? Where was there only one government consultation that would try to convince opposition representatives and tell them their plans? We miss that. We miss the fact that we have neither seen nor seen any budget, nor have we seen any plans, nor have we seen any ideas, but are bringing something to us in Bianco, which we will vote for. Well, that's the problem. I can't do this! Then you said things like that, it was a professional comment that we would have had experience if we could have organized a world show. Well, Congressman, you didn't listen to my sentences. But then I'll tell you, because you may not know this, so the 20 grand you know, you don't - there is not going to be a world exhibition in Hungary. So even if Hungary had organized a world exhibition, that experience could not be used. The World Exhibition will be in Dubai, not Hungary, and we have experience in this respect, as most of my speech was about the experience of the 2015 Milan World Exhibition. Unfortunately, we have experience, which is why we are afraid of giving you a Bianko warrant for the Dubai World Exhibition. Then he told this multifunctional hall of 20,000 people where he'd be, but they still don't give an answer, they're very secret about which association. Why do you have to hide it? Why can't you say Ferenc City? Why can't you say Ferenc City? Tell me! It's that simple. It should not be a secret, it should be specific facts. But that's just an assumption on my part, of course. After that, I was also reprimanded by the prosecution, by Mr President, that we should talk about it in a conditional manner and why we should not press charges. In Péter Polt's world, you know, we're talking about the former prominent of Fidesz, he's the attorney general who never orders an investigation into Fidesz people, even if international organizations establish certain abuses, say, in the Elios case, to give just one example, so it's hard to do with Péter Polt. I'm saying it right now, I'm not saying it, because unfortunately, what's here is in declared mode. So I am not saying this, but in 2017, after the not very successful, rather embarrassing Hungarian participation, I am talking about the 2015 Milan World Exhibition two years ago, the designer of the Hungarian pavilion in Milan spoke. The gentleman's name is Sándor Dragon. Mr Sándor Sárkány's sommatous opinion was also brought down by the press, and I would like to quote him now. So the designer of the pavilion said the following two years after the World Exhibition: "Dearly built crappy, which is good for nothing but the legalization of billionaire theft. Once again, Sándor Sárkány, the designer of the pavilion, says that it is expensively built crappy, which is good for nothing but the legalization of billionaire theft. Unfortunately, the return and the increasing cost of it each year has not yet ended. I am forced to assume that not only the construction, but also the bringing home and its adventures will serve only and only the deprivation of funds. Ladies and gentlemen, After such a history, which we have listed, it is particularly pathetic and disappointing that the Fidesz government has learned nothing from previous mistakes. The earlier short preparation period has now been reduced by about half, which makes it absolutely impossible to achieve a quality, high quality Hungarian pavilion. For the public, there is virtually nothing public about the participation in Dubai. In 2017, with the Government Decision 2131/2017, the Minister for National Development 2018 so pay attention, please, my fellow Members, Mr Nacsa, also received a deadline until 30 September 2018 to present a detailed professional concept and financial plan for Hungarian participation. I do not have any information on the completion or non-preparation of the proposal, but I am sure that no government decision has been taken on this subject. I therefore assume that the proposal, even if it was prepared for a deadline, was either inadequate or stuck in the mazes of reduced bureaucracy. The bill is 7. §2 of the Act states that, in the future, the government will determine the main characteristics of the pavilion in its individual decision, in particular its size and symbolism. So even this question is waiting for a decision to be made, but if I take into account the words of Congressman Nacsa, then there may already be some secret plans, different sizes, maybe the symbolism of the whole thing, but this is not made public. Or at least they think that the elected representatives, who may be sitting in the ranks of the opposition, do not deserve to know these plans, because it is the government and the pro-government representatives who can know this alone. So it is now 14 months before the opening, during this period not only must we select the pavilion works, but also the equipment, the installations, and the construction should be completed. Let us face it, ladies and gentlemen, this is now fairly impossible to achieve. Once again, a conflicted concept of dubious value will be implemented, with astronomical amounts, which will once again be expressed by Hungarian taxpayers. The bill seeks to remove any obstacles to Hungarian participation to ensure that public funds are used in a transparent, verifiable and traceable manner. We've been getting used to this from the Fidesz administration, helping to steal public money by legislative means. Unfortunately, that's probably what this is all about again. What is particularly harmful is that Hungary will be discredited by the government at an international event that is actually recorded and monitored around the world. In conclusion, in spite of previous experience, the government did not assign sufficient responsibility to prepare Hungarian participation in the World Exhibition in 2020. It can be concluded that, as before, the government is acting on the grounds of the shortness of time and special urgency, with a great wound-lob, but unfortunately without reason and reason. [[10.40]] It can be concluded that, as before, it was five years to prepare, but the Hungarian government, the apparatus, has not lived with it, because of its idleness, which cannot in any way be regarded as an irresistible external reason. It can be concluded that, as before, the professional concept of the pavilion is not based on a broad professional consensus, but will be an arbitrary decision, and that, as before, the resources spent will only be seen subsequently, partially, or even years later, if we see it at all. We can conclude that the Fidesz government is inadequate and unable to organise a world exhibition. Unfortunately, incompetence is true for the whole of the Fidesz-led apparatus, as there are many large state systems with the same problems, just like preparing for the world's exhibition. We demand that the persons responsible for the preparation, who appear to be unfit for it, should also be deducted from the appropriate consequences at government level, as I believe that the requests we have made here are justified and should be expected. It would be fair and reasonable for us to receive answers to our questions from you. It is legitimate and could be expected that public funds should be spent transparently and transparently at such events, and that they should plan to organise these events, which facilities should be implemented in relation to these events, and how much money they will cost. And it would also be expected that not only elected Members of Parliament, who are sitting here in Parliament thanks to the people, will be informed of these issues, but also of the public opinion. To present their plans to the public, to present the costs to the public, and to carry out professional debates before such important decisions, to conduct discussions before such decisions, and not to ignore the people who did not vote for Fidesz and not for Viktor Orbán in Hungary, and not for Fidesz and Viktor Orbán as Hungary's best choice. Thank you very much for listening, and I wish you good work. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary will not support this bill. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-05-56	Thank you very much. Mr László Hajdu asked to speak again from the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-03-05-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I didn't fit in my time, and I just want to mention two or three thoughts. One is that I think that if this were to be negotiated in a normal round, in the format that is presented here, this contract would otherwise be null and void under all circumstances. The Ptk. According to Kbt, too. That's what he said. So here we are applying a derogation that is unprecedented, and that this difference is justified in each of them, that is what we are arguing about, and that we are actually debating the obscurity of it. My second point is that there is nothing more here than to exclude the market, the competitors, the entire competition. That's what today's law is about, and I'm asking for our support. You can't add that, I guess. There are some pretty ridiculous little things in the law. Article 13 shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. I'm just quoting a little bit from point (b) of He acknowledges the need for wood replacements for such huge investments, but the 13th one. Paragraph (b) of the directive states:, the tree cutting permit does not have to provide for wood replacement. Does a licensing authority say that there is no requirement to replace wood? We even have exactly how many pieces we need to select. However, such small things are also covered by this provision that no provision should be made for wooding. Once again, I would like to mention that, in law, I would like to say that the location of the investment, its immediate environment and the scope of the real estate necessary for organising the events will be decided by the government, and we should decide that we do not know where, this is, I think, the contempt of this House, this is also the opposition, the contempt of Members. Thank you.
u2019-03-05-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Adam Steinmetz is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-03-05-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I didn't think I'd be back so soon, so thank you for your patience. Dear Parliament, I would like to emphasise first of all that sport cannot be a party political issue, and therefore we do not consider it a good thing and a good trend that, in recent times, both sports associations and sports associations have been politicised by the fact that their leaders are surrounded by parliamentary representatives and other party political officials. But staying that sport is not a party political issue, I do not want to turn this bill into a party policy, and on the contrary, as an athlete, I am very pleased that Hungary will organise such prestigious international sporting events again, because I think that fighting a Hungarian athlete on a domestic field is a much higher feeling. You can know the broad support of the Hungarian people behind you, and very few people have this, that you can make the most of yourself in front of Hungarian fans on a domestic course. There would be no problem with that, however, but as Congressman Nacsa mentioned and raised the issue of the Olympics, which I myself and Jobbik have supported from the beginning, as you rightly said, we have never had such a good opportunity to settle an Olympics. I hope that Hungary will hold an Olympics in the near future, but this one is gone. I would like to remind and draw your attention to the fact that the whole Olympics and here I am no longer speaking in my athletic capacity, but I am speaking for the Hungarian voters, the issue of a domestic Olympic event and the increased costs of the wet World Championship support the fact that in Hungarian society these domestic-organized sporting events raise doubts that they are not properly communicated. This is what we see today in connection with these two sporting events, the urban world games and the organisation of the man's handball world event, that such a bill is passing quickly, there is no cost calculation, and it is not highlighted how prestigious this is for the country, and how much revenue we might expect from tourism and catering. Obviously, this bill will be voted on, regardless of how the opponents take their stand, this will go through, which is obvious to me, but I am asking the Secretary of State and my fellow members of the Government to take action to reach a wide range of society, to ensure that this is not only prestige for the country, but is accountable, there is funding for it, and it is worth organizing such sporting events for Hungary. So I ask for your support in this, and I ask you to do the same, and then there will be no such thing in the future that has happened in a shameful way that Hungary has not been able to organise an Olympics. Thank you for the floor. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-05-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next speaker was Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, from KDNP. Here you go.
u2019-03-05-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'd respond to a few things. Unfortunately, I also have to respond to Mr President-in-Office's speech, full of anger. [[Gergely Harvesto: Soros again!]] Congressman, Congressman Arato has come late, this pun has been going on between us for a while. Mr President, I would like to point out that, on the one hand, I do not think it is fair that when I answer something, for example, you asked me about the sports of urban games, I listed it, and you do not acknowledge it in any way. [[10.50]] The things I've told you, and the things you've thrown at my eyes, the multifunctional hall of 20,000 people, filled with cultural, sporting and artistic events, or even the pavilion inspired by the Makovecz heritage, are all public information in the press. There is no internal information, no additional information published at any ruling party factions, all of which are public information in the press. And that you wouldn't otherwise be responsible for this program? Since last year, Minister Szabolcs Takács has led our preparation and participation for the World Exhibition in Dubai. Just this morning, on Kossuth Radio, we have to get out of this party pub, alpha-famous world, in public media. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks.]] Szabolcs Takács, State Secretary and Minister for Foreign Affairs, told us about the involvement of the Makovecz heritage in the design of the pavilion. Minister Gergely Gulyás told me at the last government briefing, and then even the pages of the balliberal media, everyone wrote the multifunctional hall of 20,000 people. He told me, he answered all the questions that came up there, and he also told me that the scene was not being made public because of the negotiations, and I don't know the location. It is not being made public because the State has to buy the area and would be exposed to unnecessary risks and price increases if we were to discuss this in public. All of these are public information, but you have this hat, you have no cap, you try to apply the effect: once the problem is to accept it as a matter of urgency, the problem is that there is no time to build it at once, and there is no time to do, plan and carry out these events, and there is no time to prepare for these events. In your same speech, you said twice how scandalous it is that this is discussed urgently and quickly by the Parliament, and that there is no time for that, and how short time is available, so there is obviously no quality work. Now you decide which side you're on. To replace the wood, I would like to say to Mr Hajdu that there is a guarantee in the law, and in points 2 and 3 there is a guarantee that green areas, together with the municipalities, have priority protection and must be replaced; it is there, it must be read, so it is included. You are constantly bringing the water world here as an example, and here I would also like to respond to my fellow Member Steinmetz's correct speech that there are very many additional positive effects of such a sporting event. Take a look at the number of hotels, restaurants, museums, monuments, baths in Hungary, especially in Budapest and Budapest, the extent to which they were saturated and exploited, and the extent to which the number of visitors increased during those periods and the period after that, as millions of people around the world saw those footage of the giant tower jump or the City Park or the Danube Arena, or when the reporters and the cameramen walked around the city of what a beautiful capital we live in. That is why it is important that we try to maintain this global sports capital mentality and address and do everything we can to ensure that more such events come here. These additional economic effects are clearly seen in the tourist figures, which we discussed in December last year with a tourism law, and then the representative of the government told us that according to the latest statistics, these events have caused the capital city to increase both its cultural, artistic and sports value and also its tourism and economic value. So from this point of view, I think that this must be seen and stressed in one way, and therefore I do not understand the accusations about unpreparedness, lack of appointment of responsible leaders. I very much agree with my fellow Member that this is not a party policy issue, which is why we would like to ask for your support, and not precisely for that. For example, Szeged has a socialist mayor, and it will be one of the main locations, the hall will be enlarged. By the way, these announcements will take place before the municipal election, and we are already talking about this. If we were to think with that logic, it would go against exactly what you're saying. It is precisely that we do not take party policy considerations into account here, but that it also improves our national pride, our belongings, our national feeling, our identity and, by the way, our position in the world and our country image. Our goal here is to ensure that Hungary is as good as possible at these events, and also at the World Exhibition in Dubai, where, I think, the organizers have set themselves a very ambitious goal: as Secretary of State Szabolcs Takács, Minister, said, they are expecting two million visitors to our pavilion; I think this is an ambitious goal. Our task is to support the government in this, because the visitation of the Hungarian pavilion was around 1.4 million at the global exhibition of Turino, my colleague Gréczy in Milan, and every day there are Hungarian programmes, various musical, cultural and gastronomic programs in the Hungarian pavilion. One ambitious goal is two million. I think that we should help the government to achieve these goals, and I ask you to reconsider your position and put your vote in favour, because these events will further enhance Hungary's reputation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-05-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The consolidated debate is closed. I'll ask Szabolcs Takács, Secretary of State, if you'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] Your time frame is ten minutes. Secretary of State, please. You have the floor.
u2019-03-05-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Members, Dear House, We've heard so much here in the previous, I don't know, an hour and a half, all sorts of allegations, lies, insinuations, that I say I have to respond to that. On the part of the notary in rotational order, a sentence was made that it would be legitimate and expected to receive answers to the questions. And I think that it is legitimate and it should be expected that the use of the declared method and the conditional method should be discussed in this House. You made statements, along with other Members, that represented or demonstrated a fairly high level of chemical demagoguery. [[Dr. László György Lukács: This is the point of the Prime Minister's Office! That's what we think.]] It's very sad and very disappointing. I see that you only support verbally that Hungary and the Hungarian people's performance can be presented to the world's public either in the context of domestic events or in the context of such a large world event as the World Exhibition in Dubai. Actually, I've listened to all the things you've said with sadness and disappointment, but that's what we have to live with. In addition, I would encourage you to listen to your conscience, to encourage and encourage government representatives. I understand that you are in pain about the success of the government, but why it hurts that Hungary will succeed, I do not quite understand, nor why it hurts you that Budapest is developing and modernising. [[Gergely Farkas: You won't understand!]] Congressman Gréczy said that professional objections were made. With all due respect, I can only assess these as purely political excuses, and professionalism was only missed in this. [[Lajos Rig: Why didn't you react?]] You also claimed that Hungary existed before the Fidesz government, there were also events. Speaking of which, you brought in the Milan Expo, the World Water Championship, and Géza Szőcs, I don't know what else, I would remind the congressman that there was a world exhibition in Shanghai in 2010, it would also be worth seeing. Then it was their famous comrade under the name of Agent D24 who organized this, I think we are looking for HUF 6.5 billion since then, so it would be worth talking about Shanghai as well. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Crime? Something like that? President's ringing.]] Speaking of Milan, which I think is just a slip of the tongue, on several occasions, in connection with Milan, I say that it is unworthy and tells you everything about your attitude, or that this shaman drum has stuck to you, while it has also been said that a million and a half people visited that Hungarian pavilion in Milan, and that it has indeed produced very serious country promotional, tourism and economic results for the country. These were such general remarks only in relation to your comments. In order to talk about more important things, you have also admitted, involuntarily, that there are clearly events where there are no precedents for how to prepare for this. In itself, the fact that an event is revealed or the right to organize an event does not mean that we can submit a legislative presentation which gives us the opportunity to complete planning, execution, execution and maintenance the next day. I think it can be seen that if you really approach this whole issue professionally, it will take longer, several months, until the circumstances of a particular event are explored, prepared, consulted, especially if we organise an event together with another country. [[11.00]] But in order, let me first talk about the next urban world games to take place in time. Mr Crusade had a specific question on this, and I am trying to give you a satisfactory answer. Indeed, there was a government decision that was planned with a budget of nearly HUF 3 billion. As I told you earlier, this is not a final sum, we are in constant negotiations with the rightholder of world games, so that we can push this amount a little lower. This also depends on what sporting events will be held. So this is an ongoing case, of course we will come to the public with all sorts of specific details. This is an ongoing trial, so at the moment, I won't be able to tell you a specific amount, because I don't want it to be a reference basis that will later base any further accusations. But the public and the public in this House will be involved in this matter, as a matter of course. As they said, this will be an event that has never been precedentd before. And you're only attacking on this basis as to why we're organizing a game that we don't know how much it's gonna work. I think it's a mental, philosophical difference. Someone here has indicated that the government led by Fidesz-KDNP does not follow the philosophy of dare to be small, we believe that whoever dares wins. Of course, impact studies have been carried out, and we know how to address Hungarian society, especially young people, at such an event, how to call on them to love sport, to live a healthy, sport-loving lifestyle. So we are taking the risk of this, and I think that Budapest will once again be the focus of the world's public opinion on an event that will bring pride to all of us. The Dubai World Exhibition, as its name shows, will be held in Dubai. I don't suppose that's any new information for you. And perhaps it is clear to everyone that this city is located outside Europe, in a part of the world that has never had such a world event before, even though the history of world exhibitions dates back over 150 years. There are, of course, a lot of factors that are constantly evolving and arise from the organizers, which also represent a continuous and innovative information base for the 190 countries involved. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] If I may, I would like to tell you an anecdote from our diplomatic experience and experience. The former Australian Prime Minister, Kevin Rudd, was also attacked by a large number of foreign ministers in the Australian Parliament with equally fair and not a little demagogue accusations as to why he travels so much, and his answer was that foreigners have very strange habits, such as living abroad. This is the case with Dubai, and it is very strange that Dubai is not in Europe, but in Dubai, in the United Arab Emirates, so there are completely different rules and procedures for organising a world exhibition, such as, say, Milan, and the information base and set will be published not simultaneously, two or three years before the event, but in its process. This is why we need to be able to plan, deliver and set up both the Hungarian pavilion effectively and quickly. So there is no rush, no rush, no rush, and simply because of the nature of things we have the opportunity, the law in force provides us with a regulation to conduct this procedure under a simplified and accelerated procurement procedure. I would like to point out to Mr Hajdu that this bill concerns these three events, and it is not about amending the Public Procurement Act. The current law, which Mr Szilágyi also quoted for a long time, gives us the opportunity to do so. So there is no magic here, there is a law, you have to read the text, you have to implement its provisions. This House voted in favour of this, so I do not think that there is much more to say about this. And once again, we are not talking about amending the Public Procurement Act, which we have neither had nor will have. As regards the third event, the 2022 Hungarian-Slovak joint handball European Championship: 2008 In June, it became final that Hungary could organise such an event together with a neighbouring country. A series of talks with the Slovak organizers started, the selection of locations took place, and after that we reached this point, that we have already designated that there will be a handball match in five Hungarian cities or an event related to the Eb. In one of the cities, Debrecen, there is no need to develop the facility, the scope of the law does not apply to this, it applies to four Hungarian cities, Budapest, Szeged, Tatabánya and Veszprém. Tatabánya will be an additional location, but there must also be real estate development that puts Hungary in a position to have these facilities in place by the end of 21 years. Various impact assessments and preliminary estimates suggest that we need 26 months to carry them out. And the real reason we didn't name this sports club in Budapest is because we don't want financial speculators to raise the price of the land where this multifunctional hall will be built. [[Dr. László György Lukács: A Garancsi would accidentally raise the price.]] , which, by the way, will continue to provide programs for interested parties to other events in Budapest. So I can promise you that we will not only inform you and the wider Hungarian public about all three events on different channels. Listening to these, I ask you once again, like the members of the government, to reconsider their desire to contribute to Hungary's international success. It is not the Hungarian government that must be loved, but this country where you live. With all due respect, thank you very much. [[Zsolt Gréczy: We love the country! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-05-64	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your answers. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken on this day. Dear Parliament, The CXXX of 2010 on legislation, adopted by the Parliament on 27 November 2018, sent back for consideration by the President of the Republic, will follow. T/2939 on the amendment of Act T/2939 relating to the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law. Discussion of the legislative Commission report and amendment proposal submitted to Law No 1. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/2939/11. Letter from the President of the Republic T/2939/12. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Legislative Committee's proposed amendment T/2939/14. and T/2939/15. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-03-05-65	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 28 February 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2010 CXXX on legislation. T/2939/11 amending Act T/2939/11 relating to the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law of the European Parliament and of the Council. The summary amendment and the summary report were adopted by 23 votes to two, with six abstentions. Dear Parliament, By letter sent to the President of Parliament on 7 December 2018, the President of the Republic sent the Act back to Parliament for consideration by sending his comments. In the separate amendment of the Legislative Committee, the comments were translated and strengthened guarantee rules were laid down, thereby giving more assurance that the subjects which should be regulated by law could not be interpreted narrowly. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has been said, I would ask you to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-05-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Pál Völner, on behalf of the rapporteur, whether he wishes to speak now or at a later stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] Mr Secretary of State indicates that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. The time frame you have will be 10 minutes. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute speech during the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, on behalf of the Democratic Coalition. Here you go, Congressman. [[11.10]]
u2019-03-05-67	Dear House, This bill or correction before us is about how, in addition to the general amendments to the law on legislation, they have tried to weaken citizens' rights by a specific trick; how they have tried to achieve that they can limit fundamental rights in legislation or legislation without otherwise being a legal obstacle. The whole legislative amendment itself, I remind you, has dealt with a lot of things, but the essential element was that it tried to meet the expectation that from now on the justification of the amendments, or the justification of the legislative proposals, should also be a legal norm, so to speak in English: that the courts should not start from the text of the law when judgment is given, but be obliged to take into account the justifications. And in this connection, various witty rules have been laid down on how to impose judicial independence, how to prevent a law-abiding citizen from going to the court from receiving redress on the basis of the text of the law, the laws adopted. In this bill, they slipped this little tricky amendment into it, which was intended not to take place in the case of fundamental rights... I am sorry that it should take place, so you wanted to achieve that guarantee, which in today's legislation guarantees that fundamental rights should be restricted only in the laws of the Fundamental Law, so it is only possible to make a decision with special guarantees. In other words, they wanted citizens' rights to be passed through simple legislation, without any particular procedural guarantee, so that you could decide who they were entitled to, even bypassing their own created Fundamental Law, ignoring it. It seems that the President of the Republic, who, by the way, does not blink about the champion of democracy, has gathered the courage to raise and send back an objection to such a bill. We have to say that we should thank him for doing his job sometimes, and sometimes he also deals with what is his constitutional role. I would like to point out that it was not up to you, because the government and the majority of the government simply swept off these arguments during the parliamentary debate and the professional debate, but it seems that the President of the Republic sometimes has a conscience, and even if not on a matter of substance, if not politically sensitive, but in a legal sense on an important issue, on a fundamental rights issue, he said that it was an exaggeration even for him. Finally, with regard to the legislation as a whole, I can say that everything is only virtually important, of course, because you are breaking the legislative law without any problems, making two-thirds decisions in a half law, remembering this from last year; bringing in a fundamental amendment to Parliament in eight hours or 20 hours; avoiding social consultation without any problems. In other words, the adoption of this bill will not improve the situation of the rule of law in Hungary by an inch, it will remain in the same bad situation, in the same way the citizen seeking the right will not receive adequate protection, and in the same way we cannot expect to see fair, debated, well-founded laws before the Parliament, or even the ministerial decrees or government decrees. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2019-03-05-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-03-05-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was very pleased with the speech by Mr Gergely Arató, who spoke before me. [[Gergely Harvestó: A rare occasion!]] because at the TAB meeting, he gave this kind of justification in reverse as to why the law was returned to the House on the basis of the comments made by the President of the Republic. So, indeed, it was a round of interpretation, according to which the President of the Republic saw the earlier text as more warranty, which is why he is here in front of this House, because we have accepted this kind of perception and therefore we are asking for the support of this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-05-70	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken on this day. Dear Parliament, I'm going to take a break for 13 hours and 30 minutes. The Parliament will resume its work at exactly 1:30 p.m. Thank you. (Recess: 11.14-13.32 p.m.) President: István Jakab Note: György Szilágyi and Dr. István Tiba)
u2019-03-05-71	Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work by taking decisions on the agenda. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. Please check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. If all my fellow Members have taken their seats, we will begin our work. Once again, I would like to ask my fellow Members to check that their cards have been placed in the voting machine. Thank you. Dear Parliament, The CXXX of 2010 on legislation, adopted by the Parliament on 27 November 2018, sent back for consideration by the President of the Republic, will follow. a decision on a proposal for an amendment by the legislative committee to the Law amending the Law on the Seventh Amendment to the Fundamental Law and a final vote. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/2939/11. Letter from the President of the Republic T/2939/12. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. The proposed amendment of the Legislative Committee T/2939/14. and T/2939/15. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the provisions of the House Rules, there is no possibility to maintain a proposal amending the decision and to request a separate vote. First, we decide on an amendment to the Legislative Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/2939/14. Amendment No 3 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the amendment by 120 votes to four, with 46 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the 2010 CXXX on legislation. a law which has not been published on the amendment of the Law in the context of the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law with the amendments which have just been adopted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the law by 120 votes to 25, with 29 abstentions. T/4998 on the successful implementation of the Hungarian appearance at the World Exhibition in Dubai in 2020 and on the provisions related to certain international major events. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I would remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill will be dealt with in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. T/4998/3. and the summary report by T/4998/4. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/4998/3. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 123 votes in favour, 39 against and 14 abstentions. The final vote now follows, in which we decide on the text of the bill as amended by the summarised amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/4998. The text of the proposed amendment, as amended by the summary amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the amended bill by 124 votes in favour, 40 against and 13 abstentions. It follows the T/4068 Convention between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4068. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 175 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. It follows the T/4069 between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the publication of the Convention on the Mutual Protection of classified data in defence. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4069. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 132 votes in favour, 36 against and 8 abstentions. The agreement between Hungary and the Argentine Republic on the temporary work programme will be published in T4357. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T4357. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the bill by 177 votes in favour. [[13.40]] The Hungarian Government and the Government of the Slovak Republic at the common state border, Dunakiliti and Doborgaz T/4359 on the announcement of an agreement on the construction of bridge-related facilities for cyclists and pedestrians. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4359. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 177 unanimous votes in favour. The Hungarian Government and the Government of the Slovak Republic at the common state border of the two countries, Őrhalom and Ipolyvarbo T/4360 on the announcement of an agreement between the municipalities on the construction of the road Ipoly Bridge and related facilities. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/4360. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 177 unanimous votes in favour. Following is the T/4361 on the announcement of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States and Japan. Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur is Mr T/4361/2. has submitted an adjustment, which is available on the network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/4361. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the adjusted bill with 177 unanimous votes in favour. The T/4363 between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Mongolia on the announcement of an agreement on international carriage of passengers and goods by road. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/4363. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill with 178 unanimous votes in favour. The T/4475 between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the publication of the Agreement amending and supplementing the Agreement between the Government of Hungary on the control of road, rail and water border traffic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur is T/4475/2. has submitted an adjustment, which is available on the network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4475. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the adjusted bill with 177 unanimous votes in favour. Following a series of amendments to the Protocol to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement establishing a partnership between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Kyrgyz Republic, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur is Mr T/4477/2. has submitted an adjustment, which is available on the network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4477. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the adjusted bill with 178 unanimous votes in favour. The T/4476 agreement between the International Investment Bank and the Government of Hungary on the publication of the Agreement on the seat of the International Investment Bank in Hungary. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/4476/6. T/4476/7 and T/4476/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The rapporteur is Mr T/4476/9. has submitted an adjustment, which is available on the network. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/4476/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament voted against by 123 votes in favour and 56 votes in favour. [[Result on the board: 55 non-voting.]] , accepted without abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4476/8. A single proposal, together with the adjustment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal, together with the adjustment, by 122 votes in favour, 56 against and without abstentions. The situation of nationalities living in the territory of Hungary [[February 2015 February 2017]] H/3606 on the adoption of the report on Legislative proposal No. Final vote. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/3606. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 158 votes to four, with 16 abstentions. Next up is T/4513 on Trust Foundations. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/4513/5. T/4513/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/4513/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 124 votes to 54, with no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4513/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 124 votes to 50, with four abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with disciplinary decisions. I would like to inform you that Mr. Speaker of the Parliament Act 51/A. According to paragraph 1 of Article 13 of the Act of Accession of the Republic of Croatia, the Court of Justice of the European Union shall have jurisdiction to rule on the application of Article 13 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 13 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 13 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 13 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. László Varju, DK, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, [[Dr. Agnes Vadai applauds.]] In accordance with Article 13 of the Rules of Procedure, paragraph 13 is replaced by the following: László Varju, DK, Bangóné Borbély Ildikó (Dr. Ágnes Vadai applauds) , Dr. Tamás Harangozó, Ágnes Kunhalmi, Sándor Szabó and Dr. Bertalan Tóth, MSZP, Szabolcs Szabó, Sándor Székely ordered a reduction in the due fees of independent representatives. [[13.50]] Members have asked the immunity committee to repeal the decisions. The committee did not accept the application for representatives of László Varju, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, dr. Tamás Harangozó, Ágnes Kunhalmi, Sándor Szabó and Dr. Bertalan Tóth, and, in the case of representatives of Szabolcs Szabó and Sándor Székely, the Act on Parliament 51/A. § 6 could not make a decision within the time limit. Next, the Act on Parliament 51/A. Pursuant to Article 9 of the Act, Members have asked the Parliament to repeal the decisions of the Speaker. In view of this, the house rules are 148. H/4978, H/4979, H/4977, H/5016. and H/5029. in figures, the same content as the previous decisions to reduce Members' due fees. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the proposals for decisions, the related decisions of the Speaker of the House, the relevant requests and the decisions and briefings of the immunity committee were made on the website. In accordance with the provisions of the House Rules, no proposal or Commission report may be submitted to amend the proposals for decisions. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the case of a Member, the decision of the Speaker is annulled by the Parliament, the due fee of the Member is not reduced, the Act on Parliament 51/A. Paragraph 1 of Section 1 shall terminate the proceedings brought against him. The Speaker's decision to reduce the fee shall be decided by Parliament without discussion, separately for each representative. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain in its scope the due fees of Congressman László Varju [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: No!]] The President's decision to reduce the number of members of the House is set out in Annex H/4980. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: There will be a reverse shout!]] Parliament's decision by 123 votes in favour [[Gergely Harvesto: Shame, shame!]] , 54 votes against, with 1 abstention accepted and maintained in force. I ask the Honourable Parliament, in its scope, the House President's decision to reduce the due fees of Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély is H/4975. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Speaker's decision was maintained by 122 votes, 55 votes against and 1 abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament, in its scope, the House President's decision to reduce the due fee of Dr. Tamás Harangozó is H/4976. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Speaker's decision was maintained by 123 yes, 55 votes against, with 1 abstention. [[Gergely Harvesto: Shame on you!]] I ask the Honourable Parliament, in its scope, the House President's decision to reduce the due fees of Congresswoman Ágnes Kunhalmi is maintained by H/4978. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Speaker's decision was maintained by 123 yes, 55 votes against, with 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, I ask the Honourable Parliament, in its scope, the House President's decision to reduce the due fee of Mr Sándor Szabó is H/4979. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament maintained the decision of the Speaker with 121 yeses, 57 votes against and 1 abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament, in its scope, the House President's decision to reduce the due fees of Dr. Bertalan Tóth is H/4977. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Speaker's decision was maintained by 123 yes, 54 votes against, with 1 abstention. [[Gergely Harvesto: This is the top of everything!]] I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain in its scope the decision of the Speaker of the House to reduce the due fee of Congressman Szabó Szabolcs is held by H/5016. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament maintained the decision of the Speaker of the House with 121 yeses, 55 votes against and 1 abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain in its scope the decision of the Speaker of the House to reduce the due fee of Mr Székely Sándor is held by H/5029. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Speaker's decision was maintained by 123 votes to 53, with 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr István Tiba to present the text of the decisions that have just been adopted. Mr. Messenger!
u2019-03-05-72	The Parliament is the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. Law 51/A. In the exercise of its powers under paragraph (13) of this Article, [[Gergely Harvesto: This is a list of glory!]] László Varju, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély [[Gergely Harvester: Shame on you who is not on it!]] Dr. Tamás Harangozó, Ágnes Kunhalmi, Sándor Szabó, Dr. Bertalan Tóth, Szabolcs Szabó and Sándor Székely to Members of Parliament 51/A. On the basis of the request made pursuant to Article 9 of the Rules of Procedure of the President of the Parliament, László Varju reduced the due fee of the MP OE-41/792-1/2018. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of Parliament, reduced his due fee OE-41/790-1/2018. ; dr. Tamás Harangozó, Member of Parliament, reduced his due fee OE-41/791-1/2018. A decision taken by Ms Agnes Kunhalmi on the reduction of the due fee of the Member of Parliament OE-41/796-1/2018. ; Sándor Szabó made a reduction in the due fee of the MP OE-41/795-1/2018. ; dr. Bertalan Tóth made a reduction in the due fee of his MP OE-41/793-1/2018. ; Szabolcs Szabó, Member of Parliament, reduced his due fee OE-41/181-1/2019. OE-41/183-1/2019, which has reduced the due fee of Sándor Székely, Member of Parliament. As a result, Mr Varju's due fee of HUF 504 900 will be maintained within the scope of his decision. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Shame!]] Ildikó Bangóné Borbély's due fee is HUF 504 900, the due fee is HUF 504 900, Ágnes Kunhalmi's due fee is HUF 445 500, Sándor Szabó's due fee is reduced by HUF 504 900, the due fee of the representative Bertalan Tóth is reduced by HUF 594 000, Szabolcs Szabó's due fee by HUF 1 069 200, the due fee of the representative Sándor Székely is reduced by HUF 891,000. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[14.00]]
u2019-03-05-73	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday the Parliament has already negotiated this. I ask you, you will include the Z. Kárpát by Dániel and Zoltán Magyar, the right-wing representatives, in order to reduce the VAT burden on basic foods, the 2007 General Sales Tax CXXVII. T/3732. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not accept the bill by 55 votes in favour, 118 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of our decision. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. Thank you for your cooperation. [[It's a short break.]] (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament, the notary seats are occupied by Dr. Winner Vinnai and Gergely Arató.)
u2019-03-05-74	Dear Parliament, I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats either in the benches or in the corridor. [[Ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. A general debate on the draft law to be annexed to the Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, on the free movement of persons, on the publication of the Protocol on the participation of the Republic of Croatia as a Contracting Party to the Agreement by reason of its accession to the European Union, pending its conclusion. The government referral is T/4072. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, the author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-03-05-75	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part on the free movement of persons, was concluded on 21 June 1999 and entered into force on 1 June 2002. The Agreement establishes the principle of the free movement of persons within the territory of the European Community, that is to say, the territory of the European Union and Switzerland. [[14.10]] Accordingly, the Agreement provides for the right of entry, residence, non-self-employment, self-employment and residence in the territory of the Contracting Parties, the right of entry and residence in the host country in respect of persons who do not pursue an economic activity, facilitates the provision of services and provides for the obligation to provide the same living, employment and working conditions as those granted to their own nationals. The agreement was concluded in Hungary by the 2006 CXXV. It's out of the question. It's out of the question. As new Member States have joined the European Union since then, the number of Member States has increased, and the parties have agreed to establish additional protocols for the gradual introduction of the free movement of citizens from new EU countries. Accordingly, the Protocol was adopted in order to extend the Agreement to 10 Member States which joined the European Union in 2004 and another Protocol which extended the Agreement to Bulgaria and Romania as new accession countries was adopted. It fits in with this line, Mr President, this bill, as well as the additional protocol that is the subject of the bill. On 1 July 2013, the Republic of Croatia became a party to the agreements concluded by the European Union and its Member States with the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union and the Protocol on the participation of the Republic of Croatia as a Contracting Party to the Agreement had to be supplemented. The Protocol has already been adopted by the Council of the European Union in a decision and entered into force on 1 January 2017 as it required ratification and ratification at European Union level in Switzerland. Therefore, the purpose of this bill is to publish the Protocol to the Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, on the free movement of persons, on the participation of the Republic of Croatia as a Contracting Party to the Agreement by reason of its accession to the European Union. The need to publish the minutes in law is justified by our law on the procedure for international treaties, according to which the international treaty falling within Parliament's remit and competence must always be published in the form of a law. Given that the Protocol forms an integral part of the agreement on the free movement of persons in Hungary, published by law, on the one hand, by the European Communities and their Member States, and, on the other, by the Swiss Confederation, on the other, this Protocol, Mr President, honourable Members, must be published by law. In view of the fact that the entry into force of the Protocol required only the ratification of the European Union and Switzerland, this bill does not contain the authorisation to recognise the binding effect, it only provides for the publication of the Protocol. I respectfully ask my fellow Members to ensure that this bill is supported during the vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-05-76	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Richard Hörcsik, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-03-05-77	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Minister for Foreign Affairs, The title of the bill before us is both the Swiss Confederation and Croatia. Although Croatia has been a full member of the European Union since 1 July 2013, there are still agreements between the European Union and its Member States which do not cover it. I believe this case is not unprecedented. It only shows how complex contractual relations exist between the EU Member States and third countries, which, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs said, must be put into effect individually for each of the new accession countries. I would like to remind my fellow Members that, in relation to Hungary, the so-called bilateral agreement between the EU-15 and the Swiss Confederation in 1999, which was concluded at that time, has been in force since April 2006 and contained similar restrictions to that of the current Croatia in question. Ladies and gentlemen, In the context of the proposed legislation, it is worth having a very brief impact on the relationship between the EU and Switzerland, since Switzerland is not a member of the EU or of the European Economic Area, but, together with Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein, is a member of the European Free Trade Association, EFTA. I would also like to point out that the EU and Switzerland are close allies and key economic partners to this day. Cooperation between the EU and Switzerland, I believe, goes beyond traditional free trade cooperation, as it covers, for example, Justice and Home Affairs, research, education and transport. Switzerland also applies the Schengen and Dublin acquis and Switzerland participates in certain areas of the European Union's internal market and policies. Ladies and gentlemen, It should also be remembered that Switzerland, also through bilateral agreements, is officially called the Swiss contribution to support Hungary for a value of HUF 130 million, i.e. some HUF 31 billion, for example for 10 years. A total of 32 individual projects, two grant funds, a scholarship fund and a venture capital fund were implemented with 100% commitment. I am pleased to say that the beneficiary of many projects was a narrower Patriam, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county tender, whether it is about spawning water quality, environmental awareness or equal opportunities. For example, the tourism development of Zemplén Adventure Park in Zemplén, Tátaljaújhely, is a very good example, and this not only helped the economic development of the region, but also the relations between the two countries, such as the cities of Újhely and Montreux. Mr President, The title of the bill is the free movement or free movement of persons. Consequently, for a period of five years from the entry into force of Croatia, Switzerland may limit the number of workers of Croatian nationality by annual breakdown and the number of residence permits to be issued to Croatian nationals. Croatia may, for a transitional period of seven years, restrict the acquisition of land by Swiss nationals in Croatia under the Agreement. So, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of the bill is to ensure that Croatia becomes a party to the EU-Switzerland agreement on the free movement of persons. An international treaty will therefore be announced in this way, as Minister for Foreign Affairs has said. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, let me say briefly about Croatia's membership of the EU, because the Committee on European Affairs visited Zagreb only two weeks ago, where we looked at the issue of preparation for the European Parliament, the migration crisis, the Brexit and the preparations for the Croatian EU Presidency in the first half of next year. Because Hungary has an interest in a successful Croatian Presidency. I believe that this meeting brought closer not only the two countries, but also the parliaments of the two countries. Ladies and gentlemen, That is why I ask you to support this bill. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-05-78	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. [[14.20]]
u2019-03-05-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill is needed because of Croatia's accession to the European Union. In the present case, an agreement on the free movement of persons between the European Community and the Swiss Confederation would be added. On this basis, therefore, there can be no question that Jobbik's group supports the bill before us, since it is a technical amendment. At the same time, I would like to point out that, although one of the European Union's greatest achievements is the free movement of persons, especially those living in the age of the Iron Curtain, this is one of the biggest challenges facing the country today. What do I mean? The question of emigration. No misunderstanding, of course, it is welcome and joyful for someone to think, either during his studies or for work, that he is trying his luck in Western Europe, but in recent years there has been a trend of hundreds of thousands that our countrymen have left our country and many of them do not wish to return home. The reason for this is, in addition to the working conditions in Hungary and the low level of wages and salaries compared to the Western standard, the atmosphere you have created in this country. This should be changed substantially, as hundreds of thousands of Hungarians have migrated abroad over the last few years, in the hope of a more livable environment, a better life. Many of them Hungary seems to have lost forever, but for us Members of Parliament, this cannot be left alone. We Members of Parliament should do everything we can to ensure that as many Hungarians as possible return home and try to thrive at home, start a family at home and live their lives in an atmosphere much calmer and happier than it is now. Instead of you, my honourable pro-government fellow Members, honourable Minister, filling the pockets of your own trombones, you should be dealing with the Hungarian families. It should not be the so-called KGST bank or the KGB bank, but rather improve the situation of young Hungarians. Richard Hörcsik, the chairman of our committee, has indeed said a professional speech, and he has addressed many issues that are decisive in the legislative proposal before us. However, it is also important to see that if things go further in Hungary than they are now, and in recent weeks they have become more powerful with the giant billboard campaign conducted by the government, then it is possible that in a year's time, in two years' time, such motions will not be submitted to Parliament, because Hungary will no longer be a member of the European Union's community. You can see that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán is not expensive. In order to serve his own friends, maintain his mafia network, he would even lead our country out of the European Union, risking everything. The case of the International Investment Bank highlighted this, and it is shameful that today this bill passed through the House. We, the right-handed, of course, voted against it, but that is not the end of the story. In the next period, we will do everything not only at home, but also at international European Union forums, to raise our voice against the fact that the Hungarian government wants to deliver our country to eastern deserters. We will not allow this, and as one of the biggest stakes in the European Parliament election campaign, we must also talk about such a bill that it is unacceptable for the Hungarian Prime Minister to lead Hungary out of the EU community in his own interests. Of course, it is the responsibility of all of us to put people in the European Parliament who can truly turn the European Union into a community of values, but the unrated billboard campaign that has appeared in recent times throughout the country that you are conducting is unacceptable in a normal European country. And, of course, you have now indicated that you will replace these posters on 15 March, but I think that the message itself, which was not an accident, caused very serious negative feelings at Western European level, even among your textual ones, or perhaps it can be said that among your former allies, it indicates that they have gone in a much worse direction than before. And, of course, I am not talking about maintaining economic relations with Russia or Turkey, where appropriate, but the unilateral provision of our country to these interests is in no way acceptable, and, in your favourite expression, it certainly is treasonable. So we can, of course, support this bill, but here and now I wanted to draw attention to the fact that we will not allow Hungary to move towards Hungary's departure from the European Union, because this is against the interests of Hungarians and Hungarian families. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-05-80	Thank you, Congressman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Other representatives of Imre Vejkey, Member of the Christian Democratic People's Party, have spoken.
u2019-03-05-81	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Very briefly for the bill: the parliamentary group of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports T/4072. Bill No. 1. I do not wish to repeat what the Minister has said and what my colleague has already said on behalf of Fidesz. However, I would certainly like to respond to what Mr Bana Tibor is saying, and I reject it; on the one hand, the words that were unworthy of the Minister as regards our community, the Fidesz-KDNP. On the other hand, it must be stated that the assumption that the Hungarian government would want to lead Hungary out of the European Union community is not real. It's not real! We simply argue and argue within the Union. We are debating whether there should be migration or not. And in terms of what kind of posters we have on the street or what we don't have, they also prove freedom of speech. They prove that anyone can give their opinion, whether it's the opposition or the ruling party. And the governing parties believe that migration is harmful to Hungary. They believe that Hungarians should be strengthened with the family protection action plan and Hungarian children, not with immigration. I'd like to add one more thought. The founding fathers in Europe, Schuman, De Gasperi and Adenauer, said that Europe would be either Christian or not. We, the Fidesz-KDNP, are fighting to make Europe a Christian, to remain and not to be lost. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-05-82	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2019-03-05-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must respond to the words of my fellow Member Vejkey, for he has called the thoughts that I have expressed in my speech as a keynote speaker unworthy. I, on the other hand, think that those giant posters are unworthy of a country that has declared itself European, which has appeared throughout Hungary over the last few weeks. It is also possible to talk about the issue of migration, and for a moment there should be no doubt that Jobbik's position on illegal migration is clear and firm. We too say that this issue must be dealt with in Europe, and indeed outside the European Union, and, of course, we must do everything we can against illegal border crossing and immigration. But if we are already discussing terms here, then migration may also mean that our countrymen are migrating to the West, emigration is also a migration issue, and this should be opposed. Unfortunately, my colleague Vejkey did not respond to this. The main problem with the billboard campaign is that Jean-Claude Juncker, a politician of your ally, who is the President of the European Commission, appears in a way that I do not think is acceptable in a normal European Member State. I think it's very unworthy. We can argue with him, we also have a debate with him, and with certain steps taken by the European Commission, but we do not have to resolve this by settling the country with these things for internal policy purposes, but we do have to sit hard at the negotiating tables and do everything we can. [[14.30]] And while you are talking about Christianity, in this part we agree, we really need to build a Christian Europe, but let's just say that it is not the Christian Europe that is based on hatred, and it is based on this, like your poster campaign, and not the Christian Europe where you, for example, use the Wildlifes far-right portal. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] as the Fidesz mouthpiece. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: It hurts so much! It hurts! While he was serving them, he was fine!]] It's a shame that they're doing this extreme right-wing propaganda. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-05-84	Thank you. I'll give the floor to Congressman Márius Révész for two minutes.
u2019-03-05-85	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is so touching when Jobbik worries about European values. But, Banai Congressman, don't you know who was burning an EU flag here? [[Dániel Z. Kárpát: At least learn the name of your fellow Members. Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Do you know who threw the EU flag out the window? [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Before you are a flyma and a lecturer, learn his name.]] Well, look on your side... [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: We read...!]] I want you to take a look at your party. All this nonsense you've been telling me over the past few years, it's pretty amazing. I don't know if you see, let's say, data on the Hungarian economy [[Tibor Bana: I see it! They're sad!]] for example, how salaries have been made in Hungary, in the European Union in recent years, there have been very few countries in two years where salaries have increased as much as in Hungary. And by the way, if you can interpret the statistics a little bit, you may also notice that there are no doubt that many people have migrated from Hungary, or that many have gone abroad to work, but the fact is that in this area we are still the best in the region, still the least of them have left us. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Why are you lying about something that you know isn't true?! Intercom from the pro-government benches: That's right, look at the data.]] And we hope that if the government pursues such responsible economic policies, more and more will come back sooner or later. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-05-86	Thank you very much. Mr. Dániel Z. Carpathian!
u2019-03-05-87	Mr President, Dear House, I will try to respond with sufficient restraint to the words of my pro-government fellow Member. Before we speak to each other, Mr President, the other name is worth at least studying, and, if necessary, it will be learned if we discuss it frequently. Before you attempt to eliminate what opposition representatives have to say in a fluffy and instructive manner, I would ask you to learn at least their names. I'd like to tell you that when we look at emigration data, we're not getting what you mentioned. If you look at specific statistics, you see that there are places where the situation is worse from an emigration point of view than in Hungary, this is, say, Bulgaria, so the Bulgarian model clearly shows a pattern to be avoided: in the midst of a demographic disaster, the elderly population remains at home, young people, active people, better qualified people leave the country and work elsewhere, and indeed those less mobile layers that are not able, say, to work in Western Europe remain at home. But I would ask my fellow Member to stay on the path of truth, not to distort the truth, as Hungary cannot boast of its emigration data at all in a regional comparison. About a 6-8 percent band of all countries in the region [[Révész to Márius:]] Don't wave your head, bring me specific statistics. For example, the Czech Republic is much better than Hungary in this regard, and you may not even dispute this. And you should also see that if we're looking at a ward, and there the patients are dying slowly, and the others are dying faster, and our patient is amputating a limb, which doesn't mean we're happy. My colleague, what you're saying is a lie to an existing problem. I can say this because we are talking about an existing problem in the middle of a demographic disaster when we share the stated goal, and I agree with you that this demographic emergency age must be removed. The fact is, after nine years of government, the number of live births again decreased, the fertility index stopped first, then decreased again, and in the meantime... [[On the mark of Márius Révész:]] From 1,54 to 1,49; if you get involved in such a debate, at least prepare yourself, my request is that you get to know numbers published by the HCSO, which are found with a simple Internet search, which you clearly do not know if I look at your confused smile. And I must also say that, in parallel with this process, the number of women of childbearing age has unfortunately fallen considerably in recent years. [[Márius Révész nods.]] Therefore, there was a possible improvement of the fertility index... it was two years ago, so when this indicator went up from the bottom of the balliberal government to 1.54, there was an increase, but even at the strong peak of the rising stage, the number of live births decreased simultaneously, precisely because of the narrowing of the base. And if you, along with me, want this indicator to improve and at least slow down the pace of our eclipse, then we should get there to see the real problems in Hungary. What my fellow Member has been talking about is a real problem, not telling me what he has to say, at least it's stupid. Since this is not on the agenda, I do not want to talk about a rental programme, I do not want to talk about a wage Union concept. I would like to urge you that until this problem is resolved, so as long as the Hungarian eclipse is so severe, as long as emigration is so brutal, there is no government in Hungary, but there is no political party, whose certificate can be significant. Therefore, when it comes to this issue, it should only be discussed with due consideration and modesty in my view. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-05-88	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. [[Peter Szijjártó rises to speak.]] I give the floor to the rapporteur, Minister for Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó, who clearly wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2019-03-05-89	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Although the Additional Protocol to the Agreement between the European Union and Switzerland has been discussed relatively little by my fellow Members [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Yet allow me to reflect on a few cases. First of all, on emigration, if my fellow Members allow me to say something to you. Last year was the first year of statistics again, when more people came back to Hungary than the number of people left Hungary [[Gergely Farkas: Count those beyond the border!]] I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that I think that an effective policy is to attract as many young Hungarians as possible to Hungary for work, experience and learning purposes and not young people back to Hungary, the most effective policy is to make investments in Hungary that are worth returning to these people. Since 2014 since 2014! Every year! Every year! We made an investment record in Hungary, and at the end of each year we could say that as many investments have never arrived in Hungary as in that year. And allow me to draw your attention to a very important figure: through our investment promotion system, 96 large investments were made in 2017 and 98 in 2018. In the workplaces created by these investments, the average salary in 2017 was 304 thousand forints, and in 2018 the increase was 40 per cent in one year, which clearly shows that Hungary is not a simple assembly plant on the investment map of international companies, as some people are trying to suggest, but the higher added value, the increasing technological element and the increasing number of R &amp; D components are brought here by large international companies, this is a matter of fact. I think that the job fairs at our embassy are excellent proof of the interest in return. When we agreed with BlackRock, which is the world's largest financial fund management company, there are only two countries in the world whose GDP is higher than the amount they manage, China and the United States, when we agreed with them to bring their global development centre here, nearly 100 young people working in London submitted applications and expressed their interest in working at BlackRock in Budapest during the first hour of the job fair in London. I therefore believe that an effective policy is the economic policy that will bring jobs to Hungary that can ensure a proper livelihood for young Hungarians and young people, in proportion to competitive pay and living costs in Hungary. So what I can tell you is that we, the government officials responsible for the investment promotion system, are going to try to keep breaking the investment record this year and to create as many high-value jobs as possible in Hungary during the last year and the years before. I would like to say a few words about this International Investment Bank, which, unfortunately, does not know what it is looking for in the parliamentary debate on the Additional Protocol between the European Union and Switzerland, but if that is the case, let me say a few sentences on this. I do not know, my fellow Members, that there are nine countries in the ownership structure of the International Investment Bank, and five out of these nine NATO members, five EU members, so we are talking about a bank with a majority of NATO and EU members in its ownership structure, and this bank already finances several investments in Hungary, and each of the largest companies in Hungary has a funding facility for this bank. So I would like to ask you with respect that this issue is being examined in such a way that it is right to involve new resources in the development of the Hungarian national economy; and to examine whether it is right for you to think that the centres of as many international financial institutions as possible in Budapest are right. [[14.40]] This led us, personally, when I negotiated with the heads of the International Investment Bank, then when we negotiated with the other owners, and finally agreed to transfer their headquarters to Budapest. But once again, I ask you not to deny that this is a bank with a majority of NATO and EU member countries in its ownership structure. And finally, Mr President, allow me to say something about the enlargement of the EU, especially with regard to the European Commission's head being mentioned here. This year will be the first year that will be famous for the decline in the number of Member States of the European Union. Never before in the history of the European Union has there been a decrease in the number of Member States, because no one has quit. I think that if we look at the European Commission's past four and a half years of activity, it will fail. One failure is the exit of the British, because no one can seriously believe that the exit of the British will not pose economic or political risks. I think that there is no normal person who would say that, although 14 percent of the European Union's economic performance is leaving the European Union, everything will go the same way. [[Tibor Bana: And this poster...?]] And probably no one thinks that if the European Union's second and fifth largest economies left the European Union, it would not be an economic challenge. I would simply like to say to you, honourable Member, honourable Members, that we are taking a European Union policy which is pro-enlargement, and we think that from the point of view of the European Union it would be right for as many as possible to be members of the European Union. That is why we find the policy of, for example, the President of the European Commission to be unacceptable that there will be no enlargement here until 2025. You could have said something more encouraging to our friends in the Western Balkans, for example. We believe that the European Union is strong if the more we are in it and the fewer we are, the weaker it is. We believe in a strong European Union, we have always believed in it, but the strong European Union needs strong Member States, and this will continue to define the policy of the Hungarian government in the European Union in the coming period. In any case, on behalf of the State of Switzerland and the European Communities, I thank you very much for having such an inspiring debate on this issue. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Defiance and great applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-05-90	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that T/4476 on the announcement of the agreement between the International Investment Bank and the Government of Hungary on the seat of the International Investment Bank in Hungary. The number of votes cast has been wrongly published when deciding on the summation of the proposed amendment. The number of votes cast correctly: 123 yes, 55 no, and there was no abstention. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the draft law on the publication of the Protocol on the extension of the provisions of the Agreement to the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement establishing a partnership between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Uzbekistan, of the other part, with a view to the expiry of the bilateral textile trade agreement until closure follows. The submission is T/4074. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, the author of the item on the agenda.
u2019-03-05-91	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade does not wish to enter into any competition concerning the length of the title of the proposals, so I would like to ask you to blame the bureaucratic European Union language used in Brussels for coming to you now with such proposals. [[Defiance.]] The Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Communities and Uzbekistan was signed on 12 June 1996, and this Agreement entered into force just over three years later on 1 July 1999, and in Hungary in 2011 under Article XI. It's been announced by law, by the way. The provisions of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement on trade in goods do not provide for preferential treatment, but only provide for the mutual enforcement of the so-called maximum benefit principle. Since Uzbekistan has not yet joined the World Trade Organisation, the WTO, it is therefore not bound by the so-called disciplines imposed by the WTO, and therefore this is particularly important in this partnership and cooperation agreement to establish the principle of the highest benefit of the WTO. However, the scope of this Partnership and Cooperation Agreement does not cover textile products. This was due to concerns expressed by the European Communities at that time about the situation of human rights in Uzbekistan, and in particular about the widespread use of child labour and forced labour at the time of cotton harvesting. This was, therefore, the position of the European Communities at that time. The trade in textiles was therefore covered by a separate bilateral protocol, which was in force between 2000 and 2004. Although there were no subsequent problems in the textile trade, the European Union considered it appropriate to take further steps to ensure legal certainty. This was the purpose of establishing a protocol to be published in the context of this long-named bill before us. By deleting the relevant provisions of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement, the Protocol ensured that textile products would then fall within the scope of the Agreement, a reference being made by my fellow Members in Article 1 of the Protocol. In addition, it has made technical amendments, such as that it is a term technician in Brussels once again, that due to the termination of the break-up of the Soviet Union, the provisions which have expired and which have expired have been reasonably removed from the agreement. The Protocol was finally signed on 7 April 2011 and entered into force on 1 July 2017; it took more than six years to ratify this Agreement by two entities, the European Union and Uzbekistan. This is how the mills grind in Brussels. In fact, ratification has been delayed because the European Parliament has continued to think that the Uzbek labour market situation is of concern. In 2016, the European Parliament finally contributed to the ratification of the agreement, because the International Labour Organisation (ILO) reports in previous years said that the working conditions in Uzbekistan had improved a lot and that the Uzbek government committed itself to the eradication of child labour and forced labour, which, according to the assessment of the European Parliament and the International Labour Organisation, has also brought tangible results and improvements. With its entry into force, the Protocol has become an integral part of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement. Protocols to international agreements shall be published by law pursuant to Act L of 2005 on Procedures for International Contracts. I therefore call on the Honourable Parliament, honourable Members, to also publish this protocol amending the agreement between the European Union and Uzbekistan by law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-05-92	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mrs Csöbör Katalin, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. [[14.50]]
u2019-03-05-93	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Partnership and Cooperation Agreement establishing a partnership between the European Communities and the Republic of Uzbekistan was signed in Florence on 21 June 1996. Then, as we have heard, the Agreement and the Protocols attached thereto entered into force on 1 June 1999. The purpose of this Protocol is to formally extend the principles of the Agreement applicable to trade in other goods to trade in textile products as a result of the expiry of the bilateral trade agreement between our countries. To this end, appropriate amendments to the Agreement are necessary. The European Commission was authorised in 2010 by the Council of the European Union to open negotiations for amendments and, following effective negotiations, the Parties signed on 7 April 2011 the Protocol extending the bilateral trade in textiles, which entered into force on 1 July 2017. This is how this Protocol becomes an integral part of the above-mentioned Agreement. Thank you. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-05-94	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2019-03-05-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to read the title of the bill, as we are facing a technical motion to renew the bilateral textile trade agreement that expired between the European Community and the Republic of Uzbekistan. I think that this is a definitely eligible and forward-looking goal. One of Uzbekistan's most important exports is textiles, so this agreement is particularly important for them, as many EU countries, EU Member States, are trading partners, including Hungary. Jobbik also believes that it is essential to maintain economic relations with the region that already exist and that we also consider it important that we can strengthen these economic relations in the future, as it is definitely forward-looking for Hungary in relation to the policy of Eastern opening. Here I would like to clarify the possible misunderstanding that we are not talking at all about whether in an economic sense we say Kyrgyzstan, because today there has been a vote on such a bill here in Parliament, or with Uzbekistan, or with any of its great powers, to have meaningful economic relations, because if it is in Hungary's interest as a member of the European Union in Eastern Central Europe, then it is certainly worth doing so, and the legislative proposals that appear to be technical at first, and which I have said so, still mean more in fact and further, so that when such a proposal comes before us, it is always worth considering what additional opportunities these agreements offer for Hungary. I hope that in the coming period we will be able to take steps to ensure that, whether in Uzbekistan or Turkmenistan or Kyrgyzstan, we can list the surrounding countries, make the most of the economic and commercial relations that exist, and that, by the way, even the cultural line, the educational line and other branches are also worth taking into account. It is also in Hungary's interest that we can strengthen the relationship with as many regions as possible in this respect, where appropriate, as partners, which are decisive and important as a member of the European Union. With such an attitude and these arguments, the Jobbik faction can, of course, support the motion before us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-03-05-96	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade.
u2019-03-05-97	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In a few sentences, I would like to respond to what the two key speakers have said. First of all, we announced the Eastern opening policy with the aim of helping Hungarian companies to exploit the opportunities offered by the many and high growth potential of the Eastern market. Today, it is clear that the old dogma has fallen that capital flows only from the west to the east to look for cheap labour. Today, this process has become a two-way street. Large Far Eastern companies dictate the pace of changes in the world economy as much as Western European or American companies. It is worth looking at the extent to which innovative technologies are developed by large Eastern companies and to what extent their market share is increasing here in Europe, and how many companies in Western Europe or North America are being acquired. The Eastern opening strategy must be considered successful, given that large and innovative technological investments coming from the East play a major role in the fact that Hungary is one of the winners of the global change in dimensions. However, it is also important to see that the functioning of the Eastern markets is not easy, so we have established credit lines for more countries than Eximbank, such as Uzbekistan. Today we have the investment and commercial minister of Uzbekistan, with whom we agreed to finance several Hungarian-Uzbek joint investments and corporate cooperation under the $46,5 million credit line opened at Eximbank, not to mention that Richter is a particularly successful player in the markets of these countries in this region, to which Uzbekistan belongs. I would also like to tell you that yesterday, the Central Statistical Office published the 2018 export data, which gives us the pleasure of establishing that a new national economy record has been created. The Hungarian economy has never been able to produce such export performance as last year: EUR 104.8 billion. A country of 10 million rarely produces this kind of performance. According to 2017 data, Hungary is ranked 88th in the world ranking for the population, but we are the 34th most exporting country. So we have 54 places ahead in terms of export performance than in terms of our population. This clearly shows that the products and services produced in Hungary are competitive, and we are also among the world's 20 largest exporters in the automotive and pharmaceutical industries, and we are 15th in terms of cereals. This clearly shows the development of the Hungarian food industry. However, it should also be noted that this export record could not have been achieved without taking effect on the eastern markets and that the pace of export growth could not have been maintained without taking effect on the eastern markets. We are doing this in circumstances where sanctioning measures against Russia have caused damage on the part of the European Union and the Russian response has caused Hungary in recent years to be worth billions of euros. Speaking of cooperation with Russia, I would like to draw my fellow Members' attention to the business that Western European countries are doing with Russia, because today the situation is not that Central European energy companies are building North Stream II together with Gazprom, but the largest Western European energy companies are doing so. Or during the last Russian Energy Week in Moscow, the leaders of Central European companies did not sit on the stage next to President Putin, but the CEO of the four largest Western European companies, or if you look back on the economic forum in St. Petersburg, the Hungarian Prime Minister was not the star guest last year, but the French President. So I ask you to look at how many hundreds of billions of euros of businesses have been doing business with Russia in recent years or even now. I think it would be a bad strategy if Hungary did not support Hungarian companies wishing to prevail in Russia, or we did not support Hungarian-Russian economic cooperation, so we will do everything within the framework of the Hungarian-Russian Economic Joint Committee to ensure that Hungarian companies suffer as little damage as possible in economic cooperation with Russia due to sanctions and response measures. [[15.00]] And let us not forget that there are currently press reports in Russia about the preparation of a proposal that would further strengthen the import of food from Russia, which would create new challenges for the Hungarian food industry and would cause Hungarian exporting companies a worth billions of forints of damage. It's obviously not in our interest to do so. As far as Uzbekistan is concerned, it is important for my fellow Members to be able to maintain our trade relations and to increase them dynamically, so we always support the approach between the European Union and the Central Asian countries, in which we Central Europeans can play an important role. For the first time last year, a meeting of foreign ministers from the Visegrád countries and Central Asian countries was held here in Budapest. And I would like to thank all my fellow Members for the support that can be predicted from what they have said. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-05-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. The general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the publication of an agreement on the promotion and mutual protection of investment will follow. The government referral is T/4474. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, the author of the item on the agenda.
u2019-03-05-99	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before you adds a new element to the legislative framework for the development of economic relations between Hungary and the Republic of Belarus. The aim of the agreement to be announced is to promote bilateral economic relations, including investment relations, to make the investment environment safer and more favourable, and thus to inspire companies in the two countries to help them invest as much as possible in each other's territory. The agreement therefore serves the protection and legal certainty of Hungarian investors established in the Republic of Belarus on a reciprocal basis. The Government of Hungary is pursuing an external economic strategy which aims to encourage foreign investments by Hungarian companies, thus creating a situation in which the return of the profits generated there and the export of profits produced by international companies in Hungary from the country are balanced. The investment protection agreements concluded by the Hungarian Government with partner countries form the basis for the implementation of this strategy. It is important to see that Hungarian companies need a legislative framework for foreign investment that protects their investments on a reciprocal basis, which facilitates the enforcement of international law on certain dispute settlement issues and excludes the possibility of double taxation. It is therefore important to conclude this agreement with regard to legal certainty for Hungarian companies interested in investing in the Republic of Belarus. It is therefore a bilateral agreement between the two countries, but since the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty in 2009, they have made foreign direct investment part of the common policy within the European Union. This means that the Member States of the European Union may conclude an investment protection agreement with other countries, let us say third countries, if the European Commission has, of course, given the authorisation of approval, in parallel with the authorisations laid down in the necessary domestic legislation. In the case of the agreement between Hungary and the Republic of Belarus, of course, this was also the case, so we were able to sign this document at the beginning of 2019. The Treaty therefore, I would like to underline that it has been concluded according to the guidelines of the European Union and with the approval of the European Commission. One of the main functions of the agreement is to provide investors in both countries with guarantee elements to protect their investments. Several Hungarian companies are interested in investment opportunities in the Republic of Belarus. For investors, fair and impartial settlement of disputes that may arise against the State is particularly important. Thanks to this agreement, Hungarian investors and their investments can expect international legal protection in the settlement of any disputes. Overall, this agreement consists of 17 articles and meets the criteria set by international standards. Now allow me to overlook the provisions of the agreement in full, but there are some points on which I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members. First, the agreement provides that the foreign investor and its investments will be protected from the moment of establishment. The following guarantee elements have been incorporated into the Agreement. Firstly, investments will be protected by discrimination and will also be protected by the principle of the highest benefit and national treatment. It is also guaranteed to protect them against possible expropriation beyond public policy objectives, or inadequately compensated, and unfair and unfair treatment. In addition, the agreement also covers the protection of the possibility of capital transfers. Investment protection agreements, including the agreement with the Republic of Belarus in this case, provide a way to resolve disputes between investors and the State. This provision constitutes the main guarantee element for investors and therefore forms part of all investment protection agreements, including those currently on the table of Parliament. This provision also provides protection in cases where the provisions of the investment protection agreement cannot be implemented directly in a given country before the domestic court of the partner country. Ladies and gentlemen, This agreement is expected to help the positive investment decisions of Hungarian companies currently interested in investment opportunities in the Republic of Belarus by protecting investment, contributing to the competitiveness of Hungarian companies and creating new jobs even in Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-05-100	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mrs Csöbör Katalin, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-03-05-101	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill before us is to strengthen and improve economic cooperation between Hungary and the Republic of Belarus, in particular by making the conditions for investment activities in each other's territory more favourable. Belarus is a member of the Eurasian Economic Union, so stronger cooperation between the two countries will also strengthen cooperation between the European Union and the Eurasian Economic Union. Belarus, according to 2017 data, was Hungary's 55th trading partner, with 51th in our imports and 53rd in our exports. Thanks to previous efforts, in the first ten months of last year, trade flows between Hungary and Belarus reached USD 200 million, which represents an increase of 20 percent. It is a good indication of the development of cooperation between the two countries that Belarus has granted visa waivers to Hungarian citizens, and in return, of course, Hungary offers the greatest possible benefits to Belarusian visa applicants within the framework of the Schengen rules. The agreement of 17 articles before us, signed on 14 January in Minsk, is extremely thorough. It clarifies, among other things, the concept of investor and investment, lays down the principles of non-discrimination and maximum preferential treatment, regulates the conditions for compensation for losses suffered, the rules of expropriation, the issues of transfer of rights related to the investment, the way in which the dispute is resolved, and also mentions the duration. Ladies and gentlemen, The intention of the two countries is clear: they want to provide favourable conditions for investors in the contracting parties, which promotes business activities. This international treaty serves this purpose. I ask you to support the announcement of this agreement. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-05-102	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. [[15.10]]
u2019-03-05-103	Mr President, Dear House, It is somewhat joyful in today's world, when we have a technical proposal before us, and most of the political classifications, say on Mondays, can be avoided, and real discussions can be held on real topics, where appropriate. It was right to say that there is actually a general debate on the publication here, so we are not before an agreement is concluded, we are not discussing its conditionality, but we are discussing something that has already been established, which is largely a technical agreement, which I can fully support from an investor protection point of view. Referring to the previous agenda, because we did not have the opportunity to respond, I would also like to say in connection with the Investment Bank: as an economist, I have no problem as an economist with wanting to diversify the portfolio of borrowing or to obtain loans from several directions, where appropriate, investment forms for which no other money is available. There's no problem with that. The various discounts, which Hungary unilaterally grants in this case, can be much more irritating to the experts as well, so it is no coincidence that a public debate has come about. The professional debate is a completely different scene, and we obviously have to carry it out there if there is a way to do so. In this case, I see a single point of dispute, which is more likely to be discussed here, but it would be the subject of a different agenda to change that. The practice of international arbitration is what I am fundamentally skeptical of, and this scepticism is already looking back on a decade-long perspective, since typically, when we tried to protect Hungary against the wild drivings of globalisation, one of the first points was to build some mechanisms against the practice of recourse by various multi-company companies to arbitration. The problem, whether in relation to the investment in gold in Transylvania or in other large international designs, was that the multi-company could not be brought to a public court in the course of a post-abuse settlement, but that a very sophisticated mechanism was used to ensure that, in as many cases as possible, a separate, self-protected envelope of accountability would be carried out. This turned into such a friendly discussion. And here we see, too, that, before the ratification of this convention, on the papyros before us, if the debate cannot be resolved within six months, the investor will turn to the court of the State receiving the investment or to an ad hoc arbitration court. It could have been negotiated on the conditions of this, it could have been that we were not discussing ratification now, but that we were discussing the conclusion of a convention, but in the long term I would like to point out to the government that I think that the most important objective in terms of the enforcement of international law would be to enforce the truth in public courts. I am fundamentally skeptical about these arbitration or ad hoc judicial forms. I don't really see the many international literature volumes that would have shown this success, I don't see the cases in which self-interest enforcement of nation states could have been more effective through such a form than before state courts. Let me add, in the spirit of fairness, that national law enforcement before state courts has, at least, been impaired in recent decades. We may need to come up with a whole new kind of mechanism in order to show success, but in the light of the exposure of the Hungarian economy and our geographical location, that the parts of our own ripped up are our own neighbours, it is especially important for us to build effective mechanisms for protecting our interests. I think that this form of arbitration in this agreement is not, but I am absolutely open to a substantive and professional debate on the form in which this advocacy and self-defense could be more effective. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-05-104	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2019-03-05-105	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Thank you very much for your expedition, and, yes, I agree with my fellow Member that it is also important to conduct such professional debates in addition to political, tougher-voiced debates. I think that Central Europe and Hungary in it have the same interest and security, political and economic interest in creating meaningful economic cooperation between the East and the West. It also requires a closer economic relationship between the European Union and the Eurasian Economic Union, and we can be the leaders of this. I think, in the light of the Eastern opening policy and its successes, that economic cooperation between Hungary and the members of the Eurasian Economic Union, the continuous conclusion of investment protection agreements and the promotion of investment can perhaps affect the European Union as a whole, and we can act as an example here in front of the EU Member States. We therefore believe that the Eastern Partnership should be further strengthened in this direction. The ratification or publication of the agreement that is now before us is also pointing in this direction. By signing the investment protection agreement, economic cooperation between the two countries is hoped to be given a new impetus, and from the Minister's words, if I understand it correctly, there is every chance that this will be done; precisely because, as has already been announced at Eximbank, the Hungarian government has opened a $64 million credit line in the financing of corporate cooperation on the relationship of this relationship. In addition to what has been said, I would like to draw attention to one thing: in Belarus, the IT sector and ICT exports have grown tremendously in recent years, which I think is worth paying attention to in the context of the competitiveness of Hungarian companies, as Belarus' companies have increased more than 200 percent over a year in terms of ICT exports. I think that cooperation can be intensified here too, and this is also helped by the Hungarian success that the Budapest-Minsk flight path has already been compressed, and there are even further attempts to compress it, as I understand it. I have to say that in order not only to talk about current investment protection, but also to establish it in the future, the Hungarian government's programme to provide scholarships for Belarusian students to study here is of great help, because if they learn about our country, learn about the culture and the business environment here, then they may have a better chance of investing in the future. I think that these programmes must be continued. KDNP supports the announcement. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-05-106	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. A further speech was put forward by Congressman Imre Vejkey, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2019-03-05-107	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that the speakers have all supported this bill before me, but here I would like to respond as a lawyer to the aversions of my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z., to the arbitration court, very briefly. We are talking about international investment agreements to protect them. I think an arbitration clause in this case is much luckier than, say, a Uzbek or a Belarusian court. The arbitration clause means that the parties agree on the substantive right and the procedural law they are acting on. This is an ad hoc court, so it is not that a country has a permanent arbitration court, but an ad hoc court appointed by the parties. I believe that this will provide Hungary with the greatest protection, and I would not like to go into this further in detail, but believe me, my fellow Member, that this is in the interests of Hungary and of Hungarian investors. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-05-108	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2019-03-05-109	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to respond to some reactions myself. Firstly, we have returned to the International Investment Bank as part of this item on the agenda. I would like to say to my fellow Members, as a soothing assurance, that there is no advantage or privilege that we have given to the International Investment Bank and that, according to international benchmarkes, they could be considered invalid or illegal. [[15.20]] In Hungary, and more specifically in Budapest, there are various centres of international institutions. The institutions of several regional and global organisations of the United Nations are also located in Budapest. In such a case, when an international organisation places its seat or establishment in Budapest, we provide privileges or exemptions in a manner that is fully compliant with, or parallel to, international law. So I would like to assure the Member that everything has been done in compliance with international law and in accordance with the standard procedure. I would be happy to give the representative a list of the sources of current or already transferred investment in Hungary provided by the International Investment Bank, and which largest Hungarian companies have also concluded financing contracts with the International Investment Bank, which influence the performance of the Hungarian national economy as a whole. As regards the doubts about the international arbitration court, I can say to the Member there that you are not the only one who is plagued by these doubts, and there are not only people in Hungary who are confronted by these doubts. One of the most neural points in investment protection agreements and free trade agreements is the issue of arbitration, since these agreements, especially free trade agreements, are usually concluded by countries or integrations with different economic weights. Therefore, with regard to arbitration, there is always the question of who determines the course of arbitration proceedings, their structure. So I would just like to say to the Member that this dilemma, which you have raised, exists, and we do not ignore this dilemma, of course, and in every case we strive to have a free trade agreement or an economic cooperation agreement or an investment protection agreement or a double taxation agreement to bring about the largest possible storehouse of guarantees for Hungarian companies. At the same time, I agree that the time for a debate on international arbitration on a professional basis would be right now, and this would be important guidance for us, too, on what national position we should take in relation to free trade agreements that the European Union will conclude in the future, and on what aspects we should consider in ratification procedures. I would like to say, as the lead speaker of KDNP, that Belarus is clearly on a growing path in terms of the IT industry. A number of measures have been taken in respect of free investment zones which specifically facilitate the deployment of high-tech investments. International actors have also discovered this possibility, so I agree with you that the IT area will be a priority area for our cooperation in the coming period. Congresswoman quoted data; there is more recent, fortunately. Trade between the two countries increased 11 percent last year, over 200 million dollars, and ended in 214. I also agree with both pro-government speakers that putting cooperation between the European Union and the Eurasian Economic Union on a rational basis, putting it on the basis of mutual respect, putting it on the ground of common sense is clearly in Hungary's interest, because we in Central Europe know precisely that if there was a conflict between the East and the West, then we Central Europeans have always lost to it; there were those who lost even when there was no conflict. But I think that this is a situation that we do not want to see again in the future, so we will always be a fan of common sense and mutual respect for East-West cooperation, and we are not pushing this because we are friends with America or with Russia, or I do not know what kind of friends we would be, but because it is in our national interest, and in this cooperation based on common sense, economic and trade cooperation has an extremely important role to play. Even in the document in St. Petersburg, you can read that there should be a single commercial space, I think that's probably how they put it, from Lisbon to Vladivostok. However, this is far enough today, not only geographically, but it is undoubtedly in our interest to strengthen cooperation between the Eurasian Economic Union and the European Union. I would like to thank my fellow Members with respect for their contributions. And I agree with the need for a professional debate on international arbitration, so either in the Economic Commission of Parliament or in the Committee on Budgets, if such a debate were to begin, it would give an important point of view to the future in the course of national conduct and ratification procedures for free trade agreements concluded by the European Union. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-05-110	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, The 2012 CIII on the Erzsébet programme follows in line. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Government referral T/4820. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, author of the item on the agenda.
u2019-03-05-111	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, It has been said many times, but it cannot be emphasized enough that all children, all children, are equally important to the Government of Hungary. The government therefore pays particular attention to children, not only in educational and educational institutions but also during school holidays. This is why we support the Erzsébet Camps programme, which is not only Hungary's largest camping programme, but also unique at European level. The government's aim is to provide recreation, camping, summer programs for children living in the Carpathian Basin and beyond our borders, the organisation of summer meals for children in need, the culture of young people living in the Carpathian Basin and contacts with the country of materials. To this end, we work together with the Foundation for Children in the Carpathian Basin, which carried out the programme as a public service mission, Erzsébet, for which we provided HUF 4 billion for this purpose in the central budget in 2019. In addition, an EU-supported programme of HUF 13.5 billion will contribute to making Erzsébet's programmes available to even more disadvantaged and cumulative disadvantaged students, as well as disabled students, with more tools. For these purposes, the foundation organises a number of camps and provides for many children's programmes throughout the year, whether in the field of traditionalism, sport, lifestyle, culture, art or science. Every year more opportunities and many experiences await both Hungarian children from home and across borders in daycare and sleep camps, class trips, family weekends, national events, recreation, social, cultural and other programs. With the support of the camping program, our aim is to provide as many children and students as possible with an active opportunity to relax at Lake Balaton in camps organised at Zánkán and Fonyódliget or other domestic or even non-residential locations in the Carpathian Basin, in order to acquire new knowledge, experiences, to build friendships and community. In 2016, nearly 90 thousand people participated in the Erzsébet Camps, in 2017, this number exceeded 100 thousand, in 2018, and last year the number of participants in the Erzsébet Camps increased to 126 thousand. In 2018, almost 30,000 campers took vacations in the six-day Erzsébet Camps in Balaton in Zánkán and Fonyódliget. It is a special pleasure for us that among the nearly 30 thousand participants, there were also people from beyond our borders, Transcarpathia, Transylvania, Felvidék and Southland, with a total of 2,500 people. In summer more than 1,500 Hungarian children camped at the camp in the Transylvanian Erzsébet camps in Iván, and in autumn almost 2,000 Hungarian children from Transylvania could spend longer time together. [[15.30]] The Erzsébet Camp in Zánka also hosted a special series of programs in 2018, in the year of the families: children in the family Erzsébet camps experienced the leisure life of the Erzsébet camp, not with the school community, but with their family members, parents, grandparents and siblings. However, we must not forget children who require special care and have a disease. In Zalaszabar and Tihany, they provide their relaxation, improvement of their condition, special care for their needs, in Zalaszabaron and Tihany, where in addition to the full care and meaningful programs, special camp care is also provided. In the five hundred settlements of Hungary, the day-care camping program provided nearly 60 thousand children's vacation day-care and four healthy meals a day in the vicinity of the residence, within the framework of the day-care Erzsébet camps. Besides summer camps, children can take part in so-called sleep-in class trips in autumn and spring. In 2018, more than 18,000 children attended the Erzsébet camping programmes in Balaton in the framework of the autumn- spring sleep-sleeping class trips. The Hungarian government will spend a total of HUF 26 billion in the next period to renovate and expand these two camps in Balaton, Zanka and Fonyódliget. During the renovations, the Erzsébet Camp in Zánka will not only be renovated in all its existing residential buildings, but new community spaces will also be created: the sports hall, the theatre room, the restaurant and the kitchen will be developed, and Fonyódliget will have completely new, modern buildings. The work will not affect the camping, it will continue to run smoothly. The source provided by the government thus allows for a high-quality programme to be accompanied by an opinion of the Board of Directors of the European Parliament and of the Council. Under century conditions, children will be able to camp in double numbers. In order to carry out the investment, it is also necessary for the Foundation operating the camps to own the entire area of the children's camps. In September 2016, most of this has already been implemented, the foundation received free of charge real estate belonging to campsites from the State, with the exception of three real estates, where, due to various administrative and legal obstacles, the transfer could not have taken place at that time. However, these obstacles have now been removed, so there is no reason why the foundation is CIII of 2016 on the Erzsébet programme, which has now been discussed. By means of a bill amending the Act, the Hungarian State has free ownership of the property parts related to the operation of children's camps, of which two are situated along the coast of Fonyód and one is situated in the port of the Zánka camp. I trust that the Parliament will support the transfer of the territories, and that will bring us one step closer to the goal of giving as many children as possible a high-quality holiday and holiday opportunity within the Erzsébet Camps. Thank you for your attention and for your support in your votes. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-05-112	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Kovács, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-03-05-113	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As the Secretary of State said, the 2016 CIII. We are talking about amending the law, since the Government is the Government of 1123/2017. The government decided to support the HUF 26 billion investment required for the development of the Erzsébet children's camps in Zánka and Fonyódliget, which is currently under preparation. During the renovations, all existing residential buildings of the Erzsébet Camp in Zánka will be renewed, new community spaces will be created, the theatre hall will be renovated, the restaurant, the sports hall and the kitchen will be developed, and Fonyódliget will have completely new modern buildings. In 2016, all previously state-owned properties located in the field of the campsite were owned by their operator, Elisabeth for Children in the Carpathian Basin Foundation, with the exception of three properties: the Zánka port, which is practically 765 sq m, the pier for this, a 2510 sq m charge on the shore of the Fonyód camp, and a public park in the area of Fonyód. It is important that each area affected by the development is owned by the Foundation already mentioned, since so far the maintenance obligations related to the EU project and the asset management rights of the Water Management Board have not been transferred to the Foundation, and it is therefore necessary to replace them. I think that the bill contained in the proposal provides for the free transfer of the property of the three state properties to the foundation. MNV Zrt. on the transfer and on the details of the related obligations relating to, for example, nature and environmental issues. and an agreement will be concluded between the Foundation. I ask this House to vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-05-114	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2019-03-05-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rétvári, State Secretary, explained in detail, and thank you for the fact that children can indeed enjoy these Erzsébet camps, have experiences that are truly important to children, and the state supports these holidays. The bill before us is CIII of 2012 on the Erzsébet programme. amendment of the law. Indeed, it is about the transfer of three properties from state property to the foundation, but I am taking advantage of the suspicion lawsuit, since on 15 March the section of the legislation on the spatial planning plan for Hungary and certain priority areas of Hungary on Lake Balaton will enter into force. We are talking about two camps, the Zánka and the children's camps in Fonyód, in which these areas will be taken into the hands of the foundation from the Hungarian National Asset Management Ltd. will be his property. Here we are talking about a pier taken out, which may be suitable for a port, a public park taken out of Fonyod's sight. I am very confident that the government's intentions are clear, and indeed the children will own these areas. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: As always!]] They will be able to spend their holidays there, and within a year or two, there will be no crowds of apartment houses in this area of nearly 13 thousand square meters, as these apartment houses have appeared in many, many places. Overall, the basic concept is, of course, agreed and will be supported by the Jobbik Group, but I respectfully ask you to keep it that way, and indeed children can use these areas. It has not been mentioned that the bill also states as an amendment that this bill will be considered to be fundamental, which means that the transfer of these three properties to the foundation will be virtually embedded. So, in total, I would like to confirm once again that we are in favour of it, but we are in favour of the activity of the basic objective, and we trust that, indeed, in a few years' time, there will be no one else present in this area. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Dr. Bence of Rétvári applauds.]]
u2019-03-05-116	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, notary, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2019-03-05-117	Dear House, I think there are few times when we actually agree with the basic objective itself on both sides of the House, and if it were not for you, not for the government, which, behind all its actions, has some suspicion of what business interests appear, we could, in fact, say and say that the fact that the capacity of child camping should increase is, in fact, that the state should devote new resources to this is eligible. We just have one question. If this is important to the state, then why did you set up the task? Why did a foundation, which, of course, is in church hands, as is usually the case with you, but in which, from here on out, as in a black hole, this wealth disappears, the state investment disappears, above which there is no community control? I could also say that after this, Zánka has lost the character of a public institution according to your custom, that the funds spent there lose their public money character, appear in a foundation. [[15.40]] That's what you're doing here, in a legal sense, in this bill. Now they're giving him more money from the docks. By the way, I have to add, in itself, you can say again that this can be good or bad, you can't say. I can imagine using it in children's camping and before, when Zánka was a public foundation, there were such ideas that would have made better use of the port. There it went against certain tenants and ownership interests. It may indeed be the consequence of what you promise that the functions related to children's camping can be found in this area, but it is worth reminding you that a number of articles have already said that this is not exactly the case, but that there will be a business user for the port, there will be a business user for the areas around the camp, but that are excluded from camping. I have to tell you, and this is what this bill is about, if you were on a fair path, you would not need to hide the property in this way; for example, you would not need to hand over the property without, by the way, a ban on disposal, so that the foundation will start what you want; you would not hand over this property without any further control; and, of course, if you were to act fairly, you would not spend 26 billion forints of public money in a black box on the side of which you would only put flash capitals in the box, that you would not spend 26 billion forints of public money. So what I can tell you is that the goal is noble, we have great doubts about your intentions, and we will be watching what you do in this case on the grounds of the children's interests.
u2019-03-05-118	Thank you. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State Bence Rétvári says yes. You have the floor.
u2019-03-05-119	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would just like to respond very briefly to the brief comments. Thank you very much for your support from Jobbik. If we look at the members of the public sector, that the state is obviously part of it, but if we look at the church as such, which is in the public interest in Hungary over the last thousand years, then we can say that this property remains in community use. And so it will be later, because we have seen that, if necessary, even state property, Zánka himself was in danger during a certain period of time under the Gyurcsány government. But what we can see now is that in the coming generations, in the coming centuries, I just don't want to use such great words as other ecclesiastical institutions and ecclesiastical educational institutions, the ecclesiastical hospitals have served the community for centuries and have generally offered free education, free healing, free social assistance for all those in need for centuries, and here it is a foundation connected to the Church Diocese of Szeged-Csanádi, which is what we can be sure that, as the assets of the Szeged-Csanádi Diocese have done for the benefit of the public, primarily for the benefit of those in need, it will do in the next thousand years. And that's what I can say to the representatives of the Democratic Coalition, who, of course, have once threatened the Bishop of Szeged-Chanad, that if they come to power, they can look at themselves and go against them. They had such a little humiliating speech, which is what they hope for political gain. But all of this does not discourage the government from building and modernising camps here in Zankán, Fonyódliget and Ivo, which serve many tens of thousands of people, now serving the summer recreation of more than 100,000 students and young people, as well as the purposes of the annual excursions. I trust that this bill will be supported by as many people as possible, because, as I said, it completes an existing property, this is how it is complete, and during the renovations it will also be able to offer the highest value Balaton Beach excursion to young people, a good part of whom has said that they have not been to Lake Balaton in their lives, this is the first time they have seen the Hungarian sea and spend a week in community with high-quality, meaningful programs, because in the Erzsébet camps there is not only child preservation, but also skill development, thematic programmes in connection with traditionalism, culture or the development of certain social senses. So everyone, I think, can wholeheartedly support the Erzsébet camps, the developments here, because they help the next generations in the order of hundreds of thousands a year, especially those who do not really have the opportunity to take a holiday in other ways. So I'm going to ask you to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-05-120	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Now, the general debate on the bill on the necessary amendment of certain laws in the event of the unorganised exit of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union, pending its closure. Government referral T/4821. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr János Bóka, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda. [[Dr. János Bóka enters the speaker's stand.]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-03-05-121	Mr President, Dear House, On 29 March 2017, the United Kingdom Government officially announced its intention to withdraw from the European Union. The path to the exit decision and the events of the post-notification period are likely to work for political scientists and historians for decades. However, the bill before you does not look to the past, but to the future, its aim is to create a predictable legal environment for unorganised British exits, to ensure the protection of acquired rights and an appropriate transitional period for those affected by exit. After nearly one-and-a-half years of intensive negotiations, the UK Government and the European Union reached consensus on the text of the policy declaration setting out the main directions for the exit agreement and future cooperation. The detailed and exhaustive rules of the exit agreement for a transitional period up to 31 December 2020 are appropriate to create the conditions for an orderly exit. The institutions of the European Union and the governments of the 27 Member States of the Union unanimously supported both the agreement and the declaration, which reflects Hungarian national interests. At the same time, the House of Commons of the United Kingdom Parliament last rejected the draft agreement on 15 January 2019, thus significantly increasing the likelihood of an irregular exit. The Hungarian government has started preparations in good time in case this scenario is implemented. With the preparations, we will not only settle the situation of British citizens in our country, but we will also protect the rights and interests of our fellow citizens in Britain. Under the Treaty on European Union, European Union law shall no longer apply to the State concerned, unless the European Council, in agreement with the Member State concerned, decides unanimously to extend that period, as from the date of entry into force of the Agreement on exit or, failing that, two years after notification of the intention to withdraw. In the absence of an appropriate agreement and an extension of the deadline, the United Kingdom's membership of the Union shall cease at midnight on 29 March 2019 and shall become the same as third countries. The purpose of the bill before you is to provide for the necessary legislative changes in the event of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union without agreement. [[15.50]] In accordance with the Government's decision, the coordination of legislative amendments prepared by individual ministries was conducted by the Ministry of Justice and the consolidated proposal containing draft sectoral legislative amendments has now been prepared. The bill contains amendments to the law on the promotion of employment and the benefits of the unemployed, the Act on the benefits of social security and the right to private pensions, the Act on social security pensions, the Law on compulsory health insurance, the Law on the support of families, the Law on the entry and residence of persons with the right of free movement and residence, the Law on the benefits of persons with disabilities and amending certain laws, and the Law on the activity of lawyers. The United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union without agreement is currently one of the many opportunities that have arisen. This is not a certainty, and if it does, the date of entry into force of the law, if any, may not be defined in advance, according to today's knowledge. The entry into force of the law is therefore not linked to a date, but to a future condition under the law on legislation. The date of entry into force shall be the date of termination of the United Kingdom's EU membership without an exit agreement. The calendar date of entry into force shall be determined by the Minister of Foreign Policy, immediately published in the Hungarian Gazette, after becoming known. Dear Parliament, The withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union will affect the right of residence of British citizens and their family members from third countries in Hungary. Upon withdrawal, nationals of the United Kingdom shall be considered as third-country nationals. In the absence of an agreement, the establishment of future legislation for those who have acquired a right of residence prior to exit falls within the competence of the Member States. The United Kingdom and the majority of the Member States of the European Union shall endeavour to ensure acquired rights on the basis of the principles of reciprocity and fair treatment. At present, citizens of the United Kingdom may stay in Hungary without authorisation for a period not exceeding 90 days. In case of stays of more than 90 days, they are obliged to report the stay, which the Hungarian authorities issue a registration certificate for them. British citizens can obtain a permanent residence card after 5 years of stay. In the course of the development of domestic legislation, it was a priority that the legal status should be settled by applying the existing legal status in domestic foreign law. The proposal provides for the possibility for persons enjoying the right of free movement and residence prior to leaving to continue their stay in Hungary after leaving under preferential arrangements. British citizens and their family members will be entitled to a national residence permit after 3 years of prior residence, without examining the conditions for housing, livelihoods and health insurance. Until the national residence permit is obtained, they can continue to live in Hungary with documents previously issued according to the rules of free movement and residence. The possible duration of the application for a national residence permit shall be 3 years after the exit. The definition of this date is linked to the possibility for a person arriving before exit to apply for a national residence permit after a stay of 3 years. The family members of established British citizens, with whom the relationship has already existed and continues at the exit date, may join the British citizen for a period of up to 3 years after the exit under the preferential regime, also obtaining a national residence permit. After 3 years after the exit date, the rules of the Law on the entry and residence of third-country nationals shall apply to family reunifications. In addition, we will allow British citizens and their family members to apply for an EU residence permit issued under the Council Directive on the status of long-term resident nationals of third countries. The rules of the law on the entry and residence of third-country nationals shall apply in the case of alien offences committed after the exit date. Administrative and judicial redress may be exercised in alien police proceedings under the general rules for those whose applications for established status are rejected. After 3 years after the exit date, all British citizens and their family members shall be subject to the rules of the law on entry and residence of third-country nationals. Those who have acquired the right of free movement and residence on the basis of the pre-exit stay, but who have failed to fulfil their obligation to apply for registration or new status, may initiate the settlement of their status by applying for a residence permit under the general rules of that law. In that case, the application of the person residing in the territory of Hungary may be authorised. Dear Parliament, In the event of irregular exit, the applicability of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the coordination of social security systems and of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the procedure for the implementation of this Regulation shall cease to apply to the United Kingdom and its nationals. The proposal provides for a law on the promotion of employment and the provision of unemployment in Hungary and until the end of the UK membership of the European Union in the United Kingdom for persons subject to social EU regulations. In the case of benefits to be determined from the date before the exit date, the application of the rules of the Social Union Regulations shall be without prejudice to either the right or the procedure for determining the exit. The proposal provides for the application of the principle of calculation of insurance periods by the social EU regulations for benefits to be determined at the starting date following the date of withdrawal. The proposal also ensures that, in the case of unemployment benefit fixed at the starting date following the exit date, the British insurance period for entitlement can be taken into account by applying the appropriate provision of the said EU Regulation. However, the duration of payment of the unemployment allowance can only be determined on the basis of the Hungarian eligibility periods. The proposal ensures that the periods of entitlement obtained before the British exit can also be taken into account in the case of entitlements opened from the date following the exit and that the entitlements are not lost. In the context of the United Kingdom's unAgreemented exit from the European Union, it is necessary to ensure the provisional application of the rules governing the application of the provisions of the Regulation on the coordination of social security systems by Hungary by 31 December 2020 on the basis of a document ensuring reciprocity between the two States by amending domestic legislation. The proposal therefore aims at the following changes. The proposal recognises the person receiving an old-age pension under the rules of the United Kingdom as a self-employed pensioner. In view of the fact that the United Kingdom is a third country after the exit, such as the Act on Social Insurance and Private Pensions and the Coverage of these Services 11. Paragraph 2 (2) (a) shall apply, however, the postings initiated before the exit date on the basis of the proposal shall be disregarded when examining the condition determining the period of 3 years since domestic work, until 31 December 2020. In accordance with EU rules, it is proposed that at least 2 months should pass between missions to Hungary. The proposal, while respecting the principle of protection of trust, states that, when the United Kingdom ceases to be a member of the European Union, ongoing missions from the United Kingdom to Hungary and from Hungary to the United Kingdom shall be deemed to be missions for a period known at the start of missions. The proposal also includes an amendment to the maintenance of entitlement to health services for British citizens. It is a prerequisite for the fulfilment of the obligation to pay health services contributions that the natural person has been resident for at least one year without interruption under the law on the registration of citizens' personal data and address. [[16.00]] In applying this rule, residence and residence in the territory of the United Kingdom should also be taken into account on the basis of the proposal. Dear House, The proposal would apply the Social Insurance Pensions Act to persons subject to social EU regulations in Hungary and the United Kingdom until the end of their membership of the European Union. This provision shall ensure that the periods of insurance completed before British withdrawal can be recognised and credited both before and after the date of withdrawal. In the case of retirement benefits to be determined from the date before the exit date, the application of the rules of the Social Union Regulations shall be without prejudice to the eligibility or the procedure for determining the exit. The proposal provides for the application of the social EU regulations to the principle of calculation of insurance periods in the case of pensions to be set at the starting date following the date of exit, thereby ensuring the protection of pre-exit rights. In the United Kingdom, entitlements and periods of insurance acquired before the exit date are not lost. By applying these rules, the person concerned may also be entitled to a pension if he has not acquired sufficient service time for independent entitlement in the Hungarian insurance scheme. Honourable Members, The proposal provides for a law on compulsory health insurance benefits in Hungary and for persons subject to social EU regulations in the United Kingdom until the end of the UK's membership of the European Union. In the case of benefits to be determined from the date before the date of exit, only social EU regulations should apply again, ensuring, as mentioned earlier, the proper application of the provisions in force at the time of UK membership of the Union and the recognition of the acquisition of rights, taking into account facts. In order to protect acquired rights, the proposal ensures that, in the case of cash health insurance benefits, account should be taken of insurance periods completed under the British insurance scheme, it should be possible to do so in accordance with the social EU regulations. In the case of sickness allowance, baby care fee and child care fee, benefits may be determined according to the law, in accordance with the principle of the calculation of insurance periods in accordance with the said regulation, taking into account the Hungarian and British periods of insurance. Documents issued prior to withdrawal, such as the European Health Insurance Card, qualifying for benefits in kind, until the expiry of the period of validity, but not later than 31 December 2020. Dear Parliament, Following a similar approach, the proposal provides for the application of the Family Support Act to persons subject to social EU regulations in Hungary and in the United Kingdom. In the case of family benefits to be established from the date before the exit date, except for maternity allowance, the social Union regulations shall apply. Dear Parliament, As in the past, the proposal provides for a law on benefits for persons with disabilities to be applied in Hungary and for persons subject to social EU regulations in the United Kingdom until the end of the UK's membership of the European Union. LXXVIII of 2017 on legal activity. In order to ensure that persons who have obtained the right to pursue a lawyer's activity in Hungary during the transitional period until 1 January 2021, without complying with the European Economic Area's nationality condition, are not removed from the register of Chambers or from their membership as chambers. Dear House, The proposed legislation identifies areas in which legislative intervention is required to protect legal certainty and acquired rights due to irregular British exit. However, the effects of irregular exit will be significantly wider, including civil and criminal matters, industrial property protection procedures, data protection issues, so as to mention only a few of the many areas. The Government of Hungary has also explored these areas and provides information on changes in the event of irregular exit on a publicly available surface. Dear Parliament, By leaving, the United Kingdom will cease to be a Member State of the European Union, and this will fundamentally define the framework and possibilities of our future relations in a number of areas, but the United Kingdom will not cease to be a European state, our political and military ally, our important economic partner, and the whereabouts of many of our countrymen will continue. The bill before you contains the necessary legislative measures to deal with the effects of an irregular exit, modeling a situation without agreement. This is not the closing point of future Hungarian-British relations, but the basis for further progress. In the words of T. S. Eliot, the American-born, but the country that chooses Britain, it is to end it is to set the beginning. The end is where we start. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. On this basis, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the proposal containing the necessary legislative amendments in the event of an irregular withdrawal from the United Kingdom. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-05-122	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speech will now take place in 15 minutes' time. First, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Kovács, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-03-05-123	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As the Secretary of State said, I believe that, according to the Government's decision, the proposal for an amendment to the law prepared by individual wallets, as we would say, has been carried out by the Ministry of Justice to coordinate a type of salad law and has prepared a consolidated proposal containing a sectoral amendment proposal containing amendments to the following laws, as proposed by the wallets. As a politician, I think that it is also important to talk about this because Hungary, with its accession to the European Union, has been given the opportunity to work freely, in the form of a free enterprise in which young Hungarians and Hungarians try to try to get lucky in a foreign cultural environment, in another economic environment, or to start a family, but this is England, in the case of Britain, I think it is now a case of irregular exit. Citizens may lose a kind of trust, but since this law amends a wide range of eight laws aimed at continuing the rights acquired and guaranteeing the rights acquired, I believe that it is also important to me, the Member of Matthew Salka, because many of my environments work in England, and I can even tell you that English acquaintances live in that area. So I think that these are very important politically, too, but we need to follow the legislative background, the laws listed in detail by the Secretary of State, and I think that we need to support it. Allow me to speak without the need for completeness about the annual IVth edition on the promotion of employment and the provision of the unemployed. Act on social security benefits and private pensions and the annual LXXX on the coverage of these services. LXXXI of the year. LXXXIII of the year. LXXXIV of the year 98 on the law on support for families. CXCI of 2011 on Law No I of 2007 on the entry and residence of persons with the right of free movement and residence, on the provision of persons with disabilities and amending certain laws. LXXVIII of 2017 on law and law enforcement Law. [[16.10]] In the event that the United Kingdom actually leaves the European Union without agreement on 29 March 2019, the United Kingdom shall be considered as a third State by 30 March 2019 and therefore those social security coordination regulations, such as the 883.04. EC Regulation and Regulation No 987/2009 The EC Regulation regulates the question of how the social security rights of persons exercising the right of free movement, such as health and pension insurance, should not be lost in any way and how they can be preserved. During the Brexit process, the EU 27 and the British Party have consistently expressed and highlighted the policy objective of safeguarding acquired citizens' rights. Therefore, without the need for completeness, of the following eight laws, allow me to say a few words in more detail. LXXXI of 1997 on social security pensions. Act 2 ensures that the periods of insurance completed before British withdrawal can be recognised and credited both before and after the date of withdrawal. The proposal ensures that benefits continue to be paid in the event of pre-British withdrawal in accordance with the consequences of the social EU regulations, i.e. the right to direct pension payments to the United Kingdom. LXXXIII of 1997 on health insurance Amendment of Act 3: In the case of benefits to be established before the date of withdrawal, the social EU regulations shall apply, ensuring that the provisions in force in the United Kingdom during the period of membership of the Union are properly applied and that the recognition of the acquisition of rights is taken into account. In order to protect acquired rights, as regards cash health benefits, the proposal ensures that, where it is necessary to take account of insurance periods completed under the British insurance scheme, it is possible to do so under the social EU regulations, in accordance with the principle of calculating insurance periods in the case of sickness, baby care and childcare premiums. The benefits can be taken into account by taking into account the Hungarian and British periods of insurance. is established in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the On family support, please allow the 1998 LXXXIV. I would also like to refer to the amendment of the law. I would like to note here that there is a debate just now, and Austria has been subject to infringement proceedings within the European Union, since Austria has narrowed down the family support system in the country, but in its own state, by not paying the amount that would otherwise be due under the European social agreement. So it is very important that the 1998 LXXXIV on family support. Laws have also been amended and taken into account, as well as, in the case of family support benefits to be established from the date before the starting date, with the exception of maternity allowance, the social Union regulations shall apply; or the amendment of Act I of 2007 on the entry and residence of persons with the right of free movement and residence. The withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union will change the rules on the right of UK nationals and their family members from third countries to stay after exit in Hungary. Upon withdrawal, citizens of the United Kingdom shall be considered as third-country nationals, but all the possibilities that the Secretary of State has said for a period of three years may be taken into account in subsequent family reunifications and the acquired rights and rights of citizens acquired during the stay shall be taken into account. Overall, in view of the fact that the legal standard governing the issue concerned is not yet in force at EU level, despite the withdrawal of the Brexit negotiations, Parliament is justified by the adoption of the law concerned, which nevertheless achieves the common objective in the absence of a solution at international level. The bill therefore consistently pursues the objective of ensuring that the acquired rights of citizens are not violated by the Brexit. In order to achieve the legislative objective, the so-called special provisions relating to certain social security benefits concerned, other than the general provisions currently in force in the legislation concerned, are established. The whole of the part covered by the regulation therefore meets the requirement that the drawbacks of the Brexit process which may be unsolved for citizens, at least in no way apply in respect of their acquired social security rights. The Fidesz Group supports the bill submitted by the government, and I also ask the representatives of the other parties to support this bill and its success. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-05-124	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr János Bencsik, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-03-05-125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I will start with the most important one: we can support the proposal before us on the part of Jobbik. We agree that British citizens living in our country, as well as Hungarians working in the United Kingdom, can get the greatest possible discount in everyday life if they become no deal brexit, i.e. Britain and Northern Ireland fail to sign the exit agreement with the European Union. Jobbik considers it especially important that our fellow countrymen who have been forced to leave Hungary for a better living or simply for a normal, predictable, decent life can be guaranteed the best possible conditions. It is therefore in our primary interest to make gestures in this area so that we can expect gestures from our British partners in return. Although the words of the British Ambassador in Budapest are reassuring in this area, the fate of Hungarians living and working outside remains uncertain, and many are afraid of the possible negative economic consequences, the increase in administrative burdens. Of course, it would be ideal if hundreds of thousands of family fathers, family mothers, children and grandchildren didn't have to earn a living in Bristol, Manchester, Edinburgh or London. This would require a fairer EU cohesion policy and, on the other hand, a Hungarian economic policy that does not build on corruption, oligarchs and mafia relations. This would require support for Hungarian companies and startups with significant added value in addition to or rather than the 100 billion-dollar subsidies and tax incentives of foreign multinationals. To do this, instead of extra overtime, we would have to pay decent wages, which would require relations in the press, science and culture, so that one does not want to run away from here, so that the strangler, all-powerful policy does not determine people's everyday lives and infect human relationships. This would require building a country where there is no peak of people's stupidity, collective, self-serving enemies, where people smile at each other, where it is good to live and where it is good to return. Ladies and gentlemen, Turning to the specifics, the text of the proposed bill lacks the parts on education. National Public Education Act 92. § (1) (a) (b) applies to British students studying in our country, but in the case of withdrawal, point (c) will enter into force. The question is that there is a need for further regulation in this case so that British students in our country can continue their studies under previous conditions. I also feel the same need in higher education, as many areas are involved here, from Erasmus programmes to scientific cooperation. The bill also does not provide for Act C of 2001 on the recognition of foreign certificates and diplomas, where there is a specific chapter on recognition covered by EU law. More and more Hungarian students are studying in British secondary schools and are studying or continuing higher education in college and university. [[16.20]] Dear Parliament, There are two reasons why we need to discuss today what measures we should take if Britain leaves the European Union without an agreement. One reason is that the European Commission, the European Parliament and the European Council have been unable to hear and listen in time to concerns from the other side of the Channel. The dangers, challenges and fears of mass immigration have unfortunately fallen to deaf ears among the leaders of the European Union, at precisely the most critical time. But British citizens have not been reassured that Poles and Hungarians moving from low wages to Scotland, Wales or England or other Eastern European workers will not reduce local salaries and will not charge local services and products. I note in parentheses that they couldn't have given such a guarantee, because in reality, we know exactly what happened. It will be the responsibility of historians to draw conclusions from the perspective of time, but it can already be said that the leaders of the European Union have been tested and found light in the historical era beginning with the global economic crisis in 2008. Since then, Europe has been experiencing an ongoing crisis and is growing behind the United States, China, Japan and other emerging powers with which we are fighting to kill for raw materials, markets and educated people. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that we Europeans are losing in this competition for a number of reasons, and our situation is only being made worse by the withdrawal of the United Kingdom and by the length of time involved. However, there is another reason, honourable Members, and here I appeal first of all to you, pro-government Members, that today we must discuss a bill that lies before us, and that is the amok run which you have been running since 2015 in the different arenas of politics and the public. And the whole point of this amok run is that mass immigration should not be treated, but rather create as much hysteria as possible, and use it in this noise for despicable political purposes. While keeping the Hungarian people anxious and betraying the opposition, the EU funds can be used quietly, the press independent of the government can be eliminated and the remainder of the rule of law can be broken down. Instead of taking part in the debate on the future of the European Union, you have settled the country with the lie that everyone who dared to express their own opinion and that opinion, if any, does not fit into the false reality created by you, are all George Soros's people, although, my dear fellow Fidesz Members, the US Stock Exchange Speculator, named you in the 1990s as their most successful Central European project, so much so that they could buy their first printer, thanks to his foundation. Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and Gentlemen, You are currently Commissioner Tibor Navracsics of the European Commission. You've already heard news that his pole is already on its way out, but right now, he's still your Commissioner. You currently have the strongest European Parliament group in the European People's Party, although we also see that you are working hard to exclude yourself. You are also sitting in the European Council, which brings together the leaders of the EU Member States, in the main decision-making body. So you would have had every opportunity to do everything in your power to prevent the United Kingdom from breaking out, but instead of trying to do this job without a doubt, you were more concerned with making Viktor Orbán the richest man in Hungary from his gas mechanic in the Upstairs. Instead of looking for an agreement on the management of migration at EU level and on common border protection, rather than standing up for the self-determination efforts of the indigenous Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin, instead of putting on the agenda our EU wage initiative called for by Jobbik, which aims to reduce the wage gap between the Eastern and Western countries, you have, instead of doing so, worked and are working with all your might to break down civil Hungary. It is in the common interest not only of Hungary, but also of all European countries, that their attempts to do so fail. You, my fellow members of the Government, are asking this spring for a mandate to isolate Hungary, and if you no longer have any financial use for it, you will be expelled from the European Union. Citizens' votes are asked to legitimise the billions of euros stolen from Brussels to render opposition parties, party-state press and false news campaigns officially impossible, and ultimately to push Hungary to Asia. Dear Parliament, We better guys aren't gonna let that happen. We firmly believe that the conduct of debates and representation of national interests can only be achieved within the framework of the European Union; in a Europe of nations where Hungary has an esteemed place and where our partners do not regard us as a self-serving provocator or Russia as the Trojan horse. With this goal in mind, Jobbik will have the European Union's reform on its flag. Our Home Union initiative would draw up an action plan to catch the wages of the Eastern Member States so that no one has to leave their homeland, family or friends for financial reasons anymore. We are launching a European citizens' initiative to eradicate systemic fraud and abuses around EU funds, to monitor EU funds more closely and, if necessary, to sanction them. We are defending against illegal migration by setting up our own border guards and coordinating European border protection tasks. At European level, we intend to take action against fake news companies and Fake news operators, and to support the self-determination efforts of Hungarians living in the Carpathian Basin. Dear Parliament, The European Union is undoubtedly facing the greatest challenge in its history today. However, the paradigm shift and the necessary reforms will not be carried out by anyone but us. Door slamming, jewelling, and desinforming are not going to get us anywhere. The storm around the Brexit is currently just the beginning of what awaits us in the future if we go on this road. But that's not the kind of Europe we want. We want a Europe that is a community of strong, safe and successful nation states. One that the founding fathers dreamed for themselves. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2019-03-05-126	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2019-03-05-127	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/4821. Bill No.3 intends to prepare our country with compensation if the United Kingdom falls out of the European Union without agreement, for which it has a high chance on the basis of the facts currently known. On the basis of our current knowledge, we have to assume that there is an unconventional Brexit, in particular with regard to the fact that on 15 January 2019 the House of Commons of the United Kingdom Parliament rejected the draft agreement containing the conditions for the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union. In particular, the absence of an appropriate agreement means that the United Kingdom will leave the European Union at midnight on 29 March 2019 and its legal status will become the same with third countries. [[16.30]] Ladies and Gentlemen, T/4821. Against this background, it intends to amend the following laws: Act IV of 1991 on the promotion of employment and the provision of unemployment benefits. LXXX of 1997 on social security benefits and private pensions and on the coverage of these services. LXXXI of 1997 on social security pensions. Act LXXXIII of 1997 on compulsory health insurance Act LXXXIV of 1998 on support for families Act No. I of 2007 on the entry and residence of persons with the right of free movement and residence; CXCI of 2011 on the care of persons with disabilities and amending certain laws. Law 6; lastly, Act LXXVIII of 2017 on Lawyer Activity. law, obviously, for the benefit of Hungarian citizens. Ladies and Gentlemen, I do not wish to repeat what Mr State Secretary and my fellow Member, Mr Kovács, have already said in the debate. I fully agree with what they have said. On the other hand, János Bencsik, my better fellow Member, said things about Fidesz-KDNP that I cannot agree with or even reject. In this regard, I must say that the aim of Fidesz-KDNP is to ensure that Hungarian sovereignty is not damaged. We believe that Europe will be strong if it becomes a Europe for families and not a Europe for migrants. In order to achieve a strong Europe, ladies and gentlemen, we should allow more competition within the EU, we should also stand by it, give back the safety of European citizens and families, and continue enlargement, not in 2025, but now, in 2019. Christian culture and European identity should be preserved and, last but not least, a fair debate should be held on the next EU budget, which should focus on families and not migrants. Ladies and Gentlemen, These are our answers to those called by our better Member János Bencsik. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Pretty weak!]] It is not weak, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, it is not weak, because the fact is that your opinion is weak, but our opinion and the opinion of Hungarian society is that they are strong arguments. On this basis, ladies and gentlemen, the KDNP parliamentary faction supports T/4821. Bill No. 1. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-05-128	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, notary, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2019-03-05-129	Dear House, The bill before us is a careful industrial work, if you can say so, and I am saying this in no hurtful or even particularly positive terms. The government has done its homework, prepared to go through the Hungarian legal system with all the problems and problems that the Brexit causes primarily to British citizens in Hungary, to reduce the extremely serious economic damage that the Brexit has done to Hungary, and to try to clean up or at least reduce the damage to the amazing confusion caused by the stupidity of the British political class in recent years. Because it should be clear that Brexit's injury is not primarily Hungary and not the European Union, but Britain itself. They face the escape of capital, they face an unorganized Brexit, which you all know will cause amazing damage to Britain, the companies there, the people there, the workers. But they've maneuvered themselves into a position they've been in over the years. Unfortunately, I do not share the optimism of the Secretary of State that aims to avoid unorganized Brexit. Unfortunately, today there is a greater likelihood of an irregular process than a regular, reasonable divorce, otherwise of common interest. So it is our job together to find the right legal solutions. But this does not prevent us from drawing political lessons. The Minister for Foreign Affairs pretends not to notice that the Brexit was not initiated by the European Commission and the European Union. As if you do not realize that the European Commission and its President have, I would add, elected by you, your MEPs and your government, supported by you, have gone beyond the limits that European law would have allowed you to give the British Government discounts. He would even have been willing to do what we were deeply opposed to both in Brussels and in the Hungarian Parliament to grant concessions to British nationalism or English nationalism at the expense of European workers, including Hungarian workers. That wasn't the past, dear fellow Members. And I believe that in this case, our better fellow Members are also on the wrong track when they are trying, on the one hand, to remove this matter in a way that they could have been better in Brussels and the British Government could have been smarter. That is not the case, dear fellow Members. In Britain, what happened was exactly what you're taking this country to. What happened was that an irresponsible, demagogical opposition to Europe and a responsible anti-European government brought together a Brexit that no one wanted. It must be seen that Mr Farage, who was the main smith and chief inventor of this, has essentially retired from politics. We have to see that Prime Minister Cameron, who started playing this irresponsiblely, has retired from politics. They left their offspring to solve the disaster they left behind. Ladies and gentlemen, It is precisely this policy that you are pursuing in Hungary, too, when you are settling the country with lying posters attacking Brussels and the leaders of the European Union; when you are of a kind, I am sorry to put it this way, but I cannot say otherwise, you are carrying out anti-foreign demagogues, as Mr Vejkey, who has done on other occasions, when he said that it is necessary to choose between refugees and families; when you lie about the entire European Union programme, the whole European Union, to an asylum institution; when you claim that Brussels' policy is about how to bring refugees here, which you know is not true. At least those fellow Members, such as Congressman Hörcsik, who follow the developments in the European Union, know that this is not what the European Union's policy is about. When you join the European border guard, which you have previously demanded, but now you see a political chance to speak against the European border guard and the European border protection, to try to prevent Europe from being able to defend its borders together, you are on exactly the slippery slope that Britain has come to because of the stupidity and cowardice of its own government; when you did not dare to say that Brussels is not the cause of all evil, when you did not dare to say that Brussels is not making decisions in Brussels by some remote elite, but by making decisions in Brussels, indeed, my dear fellow Members, together, the government that we have chosen in the Council has the greatest power and the European Parliament elected by Hungarian citizens, who, although mistakenly, sent Fidesz MEPs to the European Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, They make the decisions, elected Members of the European Parliament and national governments, including the Hungarian Government, in the European Council. But you also dare not say it, because it is easy to point it at Brussels, and it is much harder to face the many problems that are, by the way, the burden of European cooperation. It's a lot harder to sit at the table and negotiate there, it's a lot easier to subvert the table and refer to something else. [[16.40]] But I must tell you, fellow Members, that as long as it is up to us, we will not let that happen. We ask Hungarian citizens not to support parties that play cheap anti-European demagoguery, not to support parties that lead Hungary out of the European Union, even in spite of their intention. We ask you to choose between the parties that dare to accept that otherwise the European Union is basically a good thing. We need to talk about how to change it, how to fix it. We also say in the Democratic Coalition that we should talk about how to strengthen it and how to reach a strong federal state, a European united states. But I have to say that it is time for you to get off this road, get off this dangerous path, which will lead Hungary out of the EU, because otherwise in a few years we will not be dealing with such a short rule, otherwise, but with many, many more serious consequences, which will deal with the loss of Hungary's membership in the EU. Stop on this path, it will not bring you as much political benefits in the short term as it will cause damage in the long term. As far as the Jewish-Christian culture is concerned, I would like to tell you that its strength is shown by the fact that even KDNP's activities could not cause it any more serious damage. Thank you.
u2019-03-05-130	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Péter Ungár, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2019-03-05-131	Thank you for the floor. I don't really want to get into this, what caused the Brexit? In a debate, because that is not what this bill is about, if I have understood it correctly, so the announcements of the Christian Democratic People's Party in MTI OS, if possible, my fellow Member, will not be presented here; I think it would raise the dignity of this House significantly. The fact is that we learned that Britain will leave the European Union on the day after the referendum that this does not have to be a problem or a surprise for anyone in Hungary, and it could have been technically prepared for this, just as it will be possible to prepare for Christmas in 2019 as well. We also knew that there was a significant chance that this would be such an irregular exit, since a balanced relationship in the British Parliament does not allow either side in its own party to resolve that this is not the case. This may not be the case, but: at the end of November last year, the LMP presented a proposal for a resolution by Commission President Hörcsik, in which we asked the Government to prepare for the way to prepare for the withdrawal of Britain by the end of last year, by 31 December. There are many Hungarian citizens there, and it is in their interest to protect them, as Hungary protects the interests of citizens outside its borders, not only those who have been left abroad because of the Trianon peace dictatorship, but also those who have decided to live abroad, in Western Europe, using the rights of free movement in the European Union, these people will be put at a disadvantage. Then I was told at a committee meeting, I could summarize it as if there was nothing to see here, and everything would be all right, sooner or later we'll figure it out. Compared to this, they've brought in this law. This law, although my fellow Member Arató said it was a careful industrial work, I think it has significant shortcomings, which are not prepared for some of the problems arising from the exit. Here I would really like to talk about one thing that we mentioned earlier, but we didn't go deep enough about what the government wasn't prepared for, and that's the problem of students studying outside. That's not what this law says, and it's a very serious omission. Rectors of several British universities have announced that they themselves do not know what is going on if there is an irregular exit, and a student has started some kind of tuition fee or housing arrangement or some classification of university years, and if there is an irregular exit, they cannot guarantee that they will end in the same way. That's one of them. We would like to answer the Hungarian government that there is some bilateral way to resolve the fact that the Hungarian students out there, once they start the first year of school in EU grade, can continue the fourth, third and fifth year as well. I say this by saying that there is a complex system in Scotland, for example, where my fellow Member Hörcsik has attended university and I have been there, where there is no tuition for students in the European Union. We would like to know what the exact status of this tuition exemption will be, and how we can achieve that those who have undertaken university years outside without having to pay tuition fees and now receive thousands of pounds of tuition fees. So that would be what the government might have to say, and that would be what I first warned the Hungarian government about at the end of October last year. The other one. We do not know what the situation is with the Erasmus and Erasmus + programmes; this bill also does not provide a solution to this, so that we can respond to it. We cannot say that those who have already applied for this type of Erasmus programme or Erasmus + programme have their status or, let's say, in this House, a little less interesting, who have applied to Erasmus or Erasmus+ programmes from Britain, what will happen to them. I would like to ask you a very specific question regarding research and university workers, this Horizon 2020 programme, this large EU programme, which shares research and development and university funds, people have already applied for research scholarships with the knowledge that they could provide their share of these research scholarships even after Britain's exit. If this exit is unorganized, what about this one? What about students who have, say, postgraduate training, and so are part of the university and study, in which case they should apply for a student visa or apply for a labour visa? And if they have to apply for a labour visa, how do we know they can complete their doctoral training there? And if they can finish their doctoral training there, then they have the same question of tuition, which I've asked them before. Also, can the Hungarian government ensure that, or is there any way that it can achieve this on a bilateral basis, so that it does not have to resort to a student visa for students who are already in a student relationship in Britain and have started an education there? We are also talking about people who teach at the British university, and here they often take part in post-doctoral training, which is a very, how should I put it? Grey zone between student status and non-student status, what's the deal with that? Furthermore, there is currently a programme of genetic and agricultural research and development between Hungary and Britain, specifically what will happen to them: this is a joint EU and British R &amp; D programme, with which we do not know what will happen if Britain leaves unorganized. So since one of the largest industries in Britain is the higher education industry, they call it that, and there are a lot of Hungarian students and Hungarian teachers in such places, and a lot of people want to go there, preparing for an unorganized exit without a word, a letter, a thought, a kind emotion, I think it is irresponsible. So I would ask Mr Secretary of State to answer these specific questions when he answers, and I would ask my fellow Members that we do not live up to the actual political panels here, and everyone has enough forums for this. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2019-03-05-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I'll give you the floor for two minutes to Congresswoman Avenger.
u2019-03-05-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to see that our country is also preparing a detailed scenario for Brexit's conduct under disorderly conditions, a responsible EU country. However, in this connection, I would also like to ask my fellow government Members and State Secretary, since our country is one of the most irregular EU Member States at the moment, whether we have a detailed scenario of how the rule of law and democracy will be restored. And before you cut me off, I thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-05-134	Thank you very much. A further speech will be held by its representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Richard Hörcsik, Fidesz.
u2019-03-05-135	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The T/4821 in front of us. The purpose of the bill is therefore to ensure the necessary domestic legislative changes in the case of the United Kingdom leaving the European Union without agreement in relation to the existing provision of individual laws. [[16.50]] Following the British referendum, the exit procedure under primary EU law would have been to announce the exit of the outgoing Member State to the European Council and, on the basis of the guidelines given by the European Council, the European Union will negotiate and conclude an agreement with the outgoing Member State in which detailed rules for the exit of the outgoing Member State in view of future relations with the Union will be laid down. The Agreement would be concluded on behalf of the European Union by the European Council, acting by a qualified majority, after obtaining the consent of the European Parliament. Thus says the law, this principle should have been followed by the parties involved, but unfortunately we can see from the events of the past year and a half that this has not been the case. Whether in London or in Brussels, the various interests have overwritten this, and unfortunately both parties have lost this way to correct the situation that has unfortunately arisen. It's sad to say, but that's the thing. Ladies and gentlemen, It has not been the first time that the Hungarian government has been asked to inform the Parliament about the position of the Brexit, because, as we have heard, the fate of Hungarian citizens, not only the lives of our fellow people working outside, but also the interests of the Hungarian state, are significantly influenced by this unique event in the history of European integration. It does not matter what hole in the multi-annual financial framework is created with the withdrawal of Britain, the United Kingdom, and this affects not only Hungary but also the seven-year budget of other European countries. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the Brexit issue has been on the agenda on several occasions in the Committee on European Affairs. After the main rounds of negotiations, the Ambassador of the United Kingdom, our friend Iain Lindsay and the representative of the Hungarian government, most of the time Szabolcs Takács State Secretary, reported the situation. As negotiations progressed, we always had optimism, at least that's what Ambassador always suggested. As the negotiations between Brussels and London progressed, it became more and more likely that Parliament would also have a role to play in resolving the consequences of leaving by legislation. The likelihood of an irregular exit is now extremely serious, unfortunately I have to say. On 15 January 2019, the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom, as the Secretary of State and my fellow Member Vejkey mentioned, rejected the draft agreement containing the conditions for the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union and, on 29 March, the withdrawal from the European Union must take place in accordance with EU law. Thus, ladies and gentlemen, the UK's legal status will become the same on 30 March as third countries, and it is therefore necessary to amend the provisions concerning UK citizens concerning certain domestic legislation in the event of the termination of EU membership without agreement. Here I would like to thank the government for bringing this to us. To my fellow Member, Péter Ungár: at the time we voted on the amendment or proposal of the LMP; we hoped not only in London but also in Budapest that the agreement would take place and that there would be an orderly agreement. As Prime Minister Viktor Orbán pointed out first among the European Heads of Government: we want a fair Brexit. We were hoping for this, and I feel like we have to cross a bridge when we get there, and now we can see that it's not here, and it's better late than never. I believe that this is now being discussed in Parliament, in time. Dear House, Allow me to mention only three of the legislation covered by the proposal, which basically employs Hungarian citizens either here, Hungary or outside the United Kingdom. We have already mentioned the annual Annex IV on the promotion of employment and the provision of unemployment benefits. Law. In the case of benefits to be determined, the application of the rules of the Social Union Regulations shall be without prejudice to the fact of withdrawal, neither to the right nor to the procedure for establishing them. So the bill before us, by means of the social EU regulations, as Mr Secretary of State has said, provides for the application of the principle of calculating insurance periods in the case of benefits to be established at the starting date after the date of exit. It is also important to note, ladies and gentlemen, that the draft legislation before us also ensures that, in the case of unemployment benefit, the British insurance period for entitlement can be taken into account by applying the relevant provisions of the said EU regulation. Therefore, the bill also ensures that the periods of entitlement obtained before the British exit can be taken into account for entitlements opened from the date after the exit and that the entitlements are not lost. This is very important. Ladies and gentlemen, The same applies to the annual LXXXIII on compulsory health insurance benefits. Law, too. For benefits to be determined from the date before the exit date, the social Union regulations shall apply. The proposal seeks to protect acquired rights, and I consider this to be very important. As regards cash health insurance benefits, if necessary to establish entitlement taking into account the periods of insurance completed under the British insurance scheme, it will be possible to do so in accordance with the social EU regulations. As my fellow Member Kovács mentioned, benefits can be established for sickness, baby care and childcare premiums taking into account Hungarian and British periods of insurance. Ladies and gentlemen, The cornerstone of Hungarian government policy is the support of families, so the relevant provisions of the bill should also be discussed. Here I would like to mention the LXXXIV of 98 on support for families. the application of the law. Dear House, In view of the uncertainty surrounding the circumstances surrounding the exit, I believe that the Parliament can do nothing but put in place this so-called emergency scenario in case the so-called no deal Brexit or, according to some, the hard Brexit is implemented. Provision of legal relationships pending the conclusion of bilateral agreements based on reciprocity I believe that it is appropriate to implement this bill as proposed by the Government, so I can support this bill myself and ask my fellow Members to do so. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-05-136	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Péter Ungár, Congressman LMP, would like to speak for two minutes.
u2019-03-05-137	Thank you for the floor. I just want to say that I understand that we were hoping, and then that hope vanished, but I don't understand why. Then we saw that the world was going this way, and I don't think it surprised anyone. We do not know exactly whether this is going to happen or not; we do not know for sure today. There's been a slight change in the percentage of who's guessing what, and I'm pretty sure the odds have changed for the different betting offices, how much they could win on the unfinished or orderly exit, but in order to be on the road to the bridge, it didn't surprise anyone. I still do not have enough answers to what is causing the delay in this regard in preparing for this, and I would like to say this to the other Mr Secretary of State only, that I assume that, in reply to the section on higher education, he will tell me that we cannot amend something that is about British law, because this is not the British Parliament. [[17.00]] However, I would like to point out that in several European Union countries, they have already modified the bill for British students in the event that we can then represent them bilaterally if this is not possible. Thus, the government which differs from the joint EU negotiation every time and negotiates bilaterally, as the most disciplined student, always says that it is not possible to negotiate separately, because what will be said in Brussels. Well, now it's time to fight for freedom in the interests of Hungarian students! Let us begin bilateral negotiations with the British Government in Britain. If I have seen the pictures correctly, there is a harmonious relationship between the Hungarian Prime Minister and the British Prime Minister, then use this to represent the interests of Hungarian students and launch separate bilateral negotiations for the benefit of Hungarian students studying in Britain. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-03-05-138	Thank you, Congressman. I give Mr János Bencsik the opportunity to speak again, Jobbik.
u2019-03-05-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to Mr Imre Vejkey's comment. He said that, as opposed to the opposition, the government supports the Europe of families and not the Europe of migrants. By the way, in this principle, I think there is no difference between us. We also believe that the demographic crisis, which is in Hungary together with several similar Western European and European countries, must be resolved not by accepting people with foreign cultures, but by supporting Hungarian families. So there is no difference between us in this principle. Here the difference of opinion is more in the implementation of principle and practice. We have obviously supported the government's preferences and programmes for home creation, but we find it less justified how it could have happened that if the Hungarian government did not want a Europe of migrants, but a Europe of families, then how could you have contributed to the admission of 86 thousand people who have come into the country as migrants in recent years. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] How could it happen that my fellow Member, Dániel Z. Kárpát, in the walls of this house yesterday, drew your attention to the fact that the banks of Hungary advertise on their own website how citizens from third world countries who are otherwise non-Hungarian citizens can claim a CSOK and a family discount? How can it be that instead of hundreds of thousands of people coming out of Hungary, the government fills places with Ukrainian and Romanian migrant workers in the deficit trades and in the deficit sectors? How can it be that we give settlement bonds to virtually every shady businessman with a mass of settlement bonds? Why is it that, for years, the press has been talking about the fact that different people coming from Russia, Ukraine, are getting Hungarian citizenship if they pay enough for it? How could what has happened here in Venezuela be an example that the Hungarian government has adopted 300 Hungarian citizens with Hungarian ancestors that had to be kept virtually completely secret? I add and stress that, of course, the problem is not their inclusion, because it is acceptable from a humanitarian point of view and otherwise, because we look at them not as migrants, but as Hungarians and more than one generation of Hungarian citizens. We find this entirely appropriate and to be appreciated, but yet the fact that this whole thing had to be done under the radar proves that, instead of a Europe of families that you promote, there is indeed a sharp contrast between communication and reality here, and that contrast has not yet been clarified or corrected by any of you, so I may look forward to the response of either Member or other government representatives to clarity as to how these cases may occur. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-05-140	Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to Congressman Richard Hörcsik in two minutes.
u2019-03-05-141	Thank you very much. Mr President, My fellow Member, Mr Ungár, inspired me to draw attention to the fact that when the Brexit took place, the European Union and the United Kingdom sat down at the negotiating table and the trial began. The European Union has appointed a well-known politician, Michel Barnier, who, by the way, visited our committee twice and subsequently reported on the state of the negotiations. I believe that his work is an excellent indicator of how difficult the trial was. This has never happened in the history of the European Union. It's an unprecedented thing. Here, indeed, lawyers had to endure hard how they could separate the many tens of thousands of staples, how they could cut them, which linked the United Kingdom to the European Union. I believe that one of the great achievements of Commissioner Barnier was that he was able to forge the 27th. In this respect Hungary, of course, joined the ranks with the other Member States, which was to say that there was no separate negotiation, no separate deal. At the same time, Prime Minister, in the framework of the Visegrad Four, he also held separate negotiations on what would happen if the Brexit, a hard Brexit, did happen. At the same time, I would like to say to my fellow Members that the Hungarian Government, like the other EU governments, expressed the same view that it is necessary to preserve Europe's unity and that when the Brexit occurs, separate negotiations will begin. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-05-142	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if someone would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State if he would like to comment on what has been said. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor.
u2019-03-05-143	Mr President, Honourable Members, As a careful industrialist, I would like to thank you for your supporting contributions to the proposed legislation. On the basis of the comments made, I am confirming what I said at the beginning of the expoze, that the path to it, the Brexit, will give work to polythologists and historians for many decades. I do not consider it unnecessary to reiterate that the purpose of the bill before you is to take the necessary legislative measures in the event of an irregular British exit. The purpose of the bill before you is not to provide full information on all the uncertainties that might arise with regard to the Brexit. The aim of the bill is to solve problems that the Hungarian legislator can handle. Brexit will, of course, bring about a significant change in the life of the European Union, but there are areas where Brexit will not change. This is the issue of EU competences. There are areas that remain EU competence even after Brexit, just as they are now in EU competence. The Hungarian legislator will not be able to remedy the uncertainty in these areas. There are areas where Brexit can only be resolved through an agreement between the European Union and the United Kingdom. The Hungarian legislator will not be able to resolve these issues by means of a unilateral legislative act, and there are some issues that can be resolved through a bilateral agreement between Hungary and the United Kingdom. Of course, the Hungarian legislator does not have the power to deal with these issues unilaterally by means of a legislative act. The Hungarian government will comply with its responsibility for information. This information is provided not only by the Hungarian Government but also by the UK Government and the institutions of the European Union. Some of the EU programmes mentioned in the speeches, such as Erasmus or Horizon 2020, are programmes managed by the European Union institutions, and the European institutions managing them are the only ones entitled to decide on their future, and it is appropriate for them to inform the European public about it. I would like to note, in general terms, that I consider the submission of the bill neither premature nor post-term, but precisely timely. I believe that in areas where protection of the rights of Hungarian citizens is needed, Hungarian citizens are not at risk. [[17.10]] The unilateral statements made by the United Kingdom and the continuous contact between the United Kingdom and the Hungarian Government are reassuring from this point of view. I would also like to state that it is not the duty of a responsible government to look forward to the future in terms of what it would be good to do and when, but its responsibility is to do what it can and when it can. I believe that this objective has been fully achieved by the bill before you. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-05-144	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. It is now up to 10/2014 on certain house rules. CCVI of 2011 on the right of freedom of conscience and religion and the status of churches, religions and religious communities. CXXXII of 2018 amending Act No. a general debate on the proposal for a decision to amend it in conjunction with the law, pending closure. Presentation by representatives of István Bajkai, Csaba Hende and Imre Vejkey H/4819. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2019-03-05-145	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On 12 December 2018, the Hungarian Parliament voted for the right of freedom of conscience and freedom of religion and the CCVI of 2011 on the status of churches, religious groups and religious communities with 131 yes and 2 abstentions. CXXXII of 2018 amending Act No. a legislative amendment initiated by the Government, inter alia, because the fifth amendment of the Fundamental Law justified it. Ladies and Gentlemen, The new division of religious communities, introduced by the fifth amendment of the Fundamental Law, was also published in the Fundamental Law as a religious association, a registered church, a registered church and an established church. Legally, every religious community is a church, and it is the churches with which the State can cooperate, i.e. give them tax and other benefits. By the fifth amendment of the Fundamental Law, Article VII of the Fundamental Law Pursuant to Article 4 (4) of the Treaty, religious communities may cooperate to achieve Community objectives. Cooperation shall be decided by the Parliament on the basis of the request of the religious community. The religious communities involved in the cooperation function as an established church. In view of the involvement of established churches in the tasks of achieving Community objectives, the State grants specific entitlements. Ladies and Gentlemen, CXXXII 2018 shall enter into force on 15 April 2019. Laws also concern the conditions for the registration of religious communities and the principles of public participation in the financing of religious activities. This means, in particular, that the registration of religious communities with legal personality will take place from 15 April 2019, not on the parliamentary recognition of churches, but on the judicial register, with the exception of the established church. As the legislative framework has changed from parliamentary recognition to judicial registration, the Parliament's changing role and changes in procedural rules are set out in Article 10/2014 on certain house rules. It should also be reflected in the chapter of the parliamentary decision on church-related proceedings, together with the reregulation of the chapter. Ladies and Gentlemen, CXXXII 2018 shall enter into force on 15 April 2019. By virtue of the provisions of the Act, the Committee on Religious Affairs has no legal initiative, but given the specific nature of the subject matter, it is justified that the detailed discussion of the bill should continue in the future by the Committee on Religious Affairs, which is currently being conducted by the Judicial Committee. The publication of a comprehensive agreement with the registered church is necessary to obtain the registered church's registered church status, but the rights and obligations arising from the comprehensive agreement have been and will be borne by the parties from the date of entry into force of the agreement. In view of this, the proposal to amend the part of the bill on the publication of the comprehensive agreement cannot be submitted. However, in the case of differences between the draft law declaring the text of the agreement and the text of the signed agreement due to procedural or spelling errors, the author should have the possibility to submit a corrective proposal. It is necessary to clarify Annex 2 to the HSZ and to supplement the list of non-autonomous motions in Annex 2 with the proposal for correction. The entry into force provision is the 2018 CXXXII. It is in line with the entry into force of Law 2019. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, I would like to ask you to support the provisions of Regulation No 10/2014 on certain house rules. H/4819 amending the parliamentary decision A proposal for a decision. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-05-146	Thank you, Congressman. The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to present the Government's position during the debate. So now we have the keynote speakers. First, I give the floor to Tamás Herczeg, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-03-05-147	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, On 12 December 2018, the Hungarian Parliament adopted a bill amending the law on the right of freedom of conscience and freedom of religion and the status of churches, religious churches and religious communities at the end of the previous session. The amendment adopted, as has just been said, will enter into force on the 15th April of 2019. The main element of the amendment is the establishment of a new system of ecclesiastical organizations in which, with the exception of established churches, the classification of additional religious communities as ecclesiastical law instead of the recognition procedure applied so far is registered by the court. I would like to briefly summarise what we should mean by an established church. According to the legal definition, the established church is a registered church with which the State enters into a comprehensive agreement on cooperation for Community purposes. For the purposes of the Government's legislative initiative, these agreements and their amendments must be published by law. The chapter on the status of religious communities in the church law states that religious communities are all communities of natural persons, regardless of their organisational form, legal personality or name, which have developed into the practice of religion and primarily pursues religious activities. A religious community can operate without legal personality or in an organizational form with legal personality. Dear House, The legislation adopted in December assigns certain additional rights to religious communities with legal personality. So such an organization is the religious association, the registered church, the registered church, and the established church. The registered churches declared in the cardinal law and which are represented in the annex to the Church Act shall be considered as a church established under the relevant provision of the Fundamental Law. Article VII of the Fundamental Law Article 4 (4) shall read as follows: The State and religious communities can work together to achieve Community goals. Cooperation shall be decided by the Parliament on the basis of the request of the religious community. The religious communities involved in the cooperation function as an established church. In view of the involvement of established churches in the tasks of achieving Community objectives, the State grants specific entitlements. [[17.20]] Dear Parliament, The purpose of the proposal for a decision before us is to adapt the provisions of the House Rule to the amended legislative framework set out above. According to the amendment of the law adopted on 12 December 2018, the rules of procedure are changing, so it is absolutely necessary to amend the house rules, in view of the change in the role of the Parliament in the procedure of classification as a registered church. The consequence of the amendment of the Church Act is that the legislative initiative of the Parliament's Committee on Religious Affairs will cease, as has just been said, but given the specific nature of the subject matter concerned, it is reasonable that the detailed discussion of the bill will continue to be conducted by the Committee on Religious Affairs, such as the Judicial Committee. According to the adopted amendment of the law, the publication of a comprehensive agreement with the registered church is an indispensable procedural act in order to obtain the registered church's established status as a church. The rights and obligations deriving from the Comprehensive Agreement shall be conferred on or charged to the Parties from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. All this means that no amendments to the part of the bill on the publication of the comprehensive agreement can be tabled. However, the legislator considers it appropriate to give the rapporteur the opportunity to submit a so-called correction proposal in the event that there is a difference between the draft law declaring the agreement and the text of the signed agreement due to errors in spelling or spelling. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal before us offers us a legal solution allowing us to adapt the relevant provisions of the house rules to the existing text of the Church Act. In my opinion, this is absolutely necessary, because the role of Parliament is changing during the procedure. In view of what has been said in the expozee and what I have said, the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance parliamentary group supports the adoption of the proposal submitted. I ask all my fellow Members to do the same. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-05-148	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Adam Mirkóczki, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2019-03-05-149	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Very briefly: Jobbik naturally supports this proposal, as does the previous law or the legislative proposal on which it is based. There is only one thing I would really like to express with constructive criticism, and I have absolutely no intention of stabbing. If we look back, and those Members who were members of the Parliament at least from 2010 onwards, the whole church administration, in the meantime, we first reached out to a chaotic and not good law in 2011, as I recall, and really, in terms of intent and acceptance of goals, the method and the instrument itself, as we have tried for many years or tried to achieve for many years, was disastrous. In essence, if you think about it, from 2011, a number of versions have seen the light of day, a number of general debates, detailed debates, votes, and if I don't exaggerate, it took eight years to draft a proposal in such a case, which is really about freedom of conscience and religion, eight years to be basically to be accepted by the Parliament by a large majority, not counting the one or two abstentions, in a case that is really independent of party status, regardless of age, gender or even religion, but still a very important thing. What I would like to ask and advise naively in the future is that in such matters, which are really far from party politics, and which are very difficult to bring into it, even when dragging forward with its hair, disputes that are not worthy of it, I think it is safe to come to a common denominator for consensus and for the sake of success and improvement as soon as possible, and it is not a shame to accept or listen to opposition proposals, since we have formulated in many ways in the previous proposal, especially in the previous proposals, how unworthy it is, for example, for a religious community or church to vote on their existence and their fate at all. Then they didn't listen, and later, of course, many effects led to the fact that it did come out, and thank God we have now come to the point that we can't talk about it, and finally there is a proposal that I think, let's say, regulates this issue in an appropriate way, given the circumstances, although it's not easy, and I'm sure that years later we will have to touch it again, and not because it's bad, but simply because life and practice are going to override the current regulations. Of course, we will support this proposal, but I really ask that in the future we listen to each other much more than these kinds of questions, and it does not take 8 years to adopt a good law, but a few months is enough. Thank you very much. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian applauds.]]
u2019-03-05-150	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2019-03-05-151	Dear House, This proposal is a logical consequence of the law on ecclesiastical law adopted at the end of last year, which basically passes the rules of the decree. At the same time, I have to say what we said in the debate on that bill, that while we appreciate and perceive that in this case the legislator was seeking a fair or fairer and more legal certainty than that contained in the former Church Act, which has been highly criticised on several occasions by many people, and which the European Court of Human Rights, for example, has said in the case of the Gospel Brothers' Union, that it does not comply with the principle of religious freedom, so it is a better regulation than that. I do not question at all the good intentions of my fellow Members or the Government to create a regulation here that makes this situation sound, but unfortunately, the fundamental flaw of the previous regulation remains that it wishes to define in a state word, in a legal word, that there are churches that are equal and that are more equal than they are. He wants to distinguish between a church and a church, a believer and a believer according to which box he considers the church fitable, and we think that this is not right; there is no right distinction between churches, there is no right distinction between believers. Uncle Pista and the church he likes can't be more than Uncle Jozsi and the church he likes because, by the way, you consider the first church to be better, more favorable, more sympathetic than the second church. This approach also goes through this legislation, Mr President mentioned it, and I also mention that, for example, there is still a strange miscellaneous solution to an agreement with churches, where, on the one hand, the agreement is formally entered into before Parliament and is given parliamentary protection, but in fact, Parliament is eating it, not eating it, getting it on a basis other than that, there is no way for Parliament, if any, the minority of Parliament, to have a meaningful influence on these agreements. So what we can say is that this proposal and the whole concept behind it are much better than the previous one, no doubt seeking to find state-of-law solutions, but in our view we still consider it to be something that is not eligible. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-05-152	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. Would anyone like to comment on what has been said? [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Imre Vejkey to comment. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman. [[17 .30]]
u2019-03-05-153	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank Tamás Herczeg, my Fidesz fellow Member and Adam Mirkóczki, who is my better friend, for his supporting speech. I would suggest to my fellow Member, Mr Gergely Arató, that if you take another look at this proposal for a resolution, this should be addressed by the H/4819. This proposal for a resolution, in fact, to narrow it down to an extended sentence, is sharpened to ensure that the church law that will enter into force on 15 April and the house rules currently in force do not conflict with each other and that the house rules are adapted to the church law that will enter into force on 15 April. I therefore believe that the points you have made in this respect are not necessarily, in fact, correct, and that is why I also ask DK to reconsider and to support this proposal for a decision in the vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-05-154	Thank you, Congressman. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agendas. We now have post-scheduled speeches. First of all, after the agenda, Mr Zoltán Demeter asked for a speech: he celebrates his 25-year anniversary with the title of the Ministry of Defence's Camp Service. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-03-05-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The reconstruction of the field ministry 25 years ago and the termination of the military service 15 years ago 3 November 2004 indicate that there has indeed been a radical change and a turnaround in the history of the Hungarian Army. Allow me to begin this quarter-century event, welcoming the camp ministry with personal experience. It is well known that I am a Reformed pastor in my profession, and as a theologian between 1984 and 86, I spent my military service among the branded. We arrived in Marcali, where we were about to be called a "shower," and we, theologians, were placed in a separate line, brought up to one of the districts, and the political officer, a captain, opened by saying that they were the scum of society. They told me they wouldn't demo me because there's nothing under the honvéd. [[Defiance.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I know that the commemoration is not about me and us, but about what happened 25 years ago, but to make my fellow Members feel and understand the significance of where, how deeply the military started when the regime changed, and how important the presence of the field ministry in the ranks of the Hungarian Defence Office is, I have to start with this. And I, who sang the song with my father and grandfather even while drinking wine, in which the chorus there is that the Hargitan is standing, and in whose family and kin a line of soldiers have suffered the first and second world wars, we have at the border that it meant the country, along with its losses and glory. So understand my shock when I had to hear that there was nothing under the honvéd, that's the bottom. I am convinced that the first serious step in restoring the authority and discipline of the Hungarian Defence Forces is to take back the ministry. It was an incredible feeling, a real sign of freedom, when the camp chaplains appeared among the ranks of the soldiers, they were always there, since every serious army knew the soldiers among its ranks today and before. The return of the field ministry to the defense means that the soldier is again a man with authority, dignity and soul, whom he must be valued, because he is worth much more than the weapon, no matter how much he is worth, and the army is a dangerous and stressful environment, the soldier must always assume that he will be deployed anywhere and at any time. The silent, calm presence of clergymen in the army is a good sign, and so it is until the situation becomes sharp. Therefore, it is very fortunate to have the troops in which the clergymen are without work, more precisely in the service of peace, ensuring the life of faith and piety, religious practice, the service of sacraments and spiritual care, providing soldiers with the tools, objects, literature necessary for religious practice, providing the services of the church to soldiers and their families, leading religious soldiers on domestic and international pilgrimages, and redistributing their activities for a long time. In addition, in the last two and a half decades, the camp chaplains have helped the work of Hungarian peacekeeping soldiers in major foreign missions such as Iraq, Kosovo, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Afghanistan. Over the last 25 years, the three service branches of the field ministry, the Catholic camp episcopate, the Protestant camp episcopate, as well as the camp rabbinate, have proved that they need their work in the Hungarian Army, they are there and serve most of the troops. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] God bless your country, your country, your army and your service as camp chaplains. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-03-05-156	Thank you, Congressman. After the second and final agenda, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát applied for a speech... [[István Szilárd Németh raises his hand.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I didn't notice. [[Németh Szilárd István Z. Carpathian to Daniel: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Z. Kárpat to Dániel Németh Szilárd István: Here you go.]] Then I'll give the Secretary of State the floor to answer.
u2019-03-05-157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I would like to thank you for this careful and personal speech, which you shared with us on the occasion of the quarter-century anniversary of the field ministry, and here in Parliament, we have also seen the return of the service of which you have told us about the story of which we listened at the beginning, so sadly and perhaps a little outraged, how the Communists wiped out in Hungary and here in Eastern Europe, in the service of the people's armies under the Warsaw Treaty, the ministry of which we celebrated the quarter-century anniversary last week. Dear fellow Members, There are situations in our lives that have a high level of intimacy, grabbing and overwhelming power. The priests, pastors, and soldiers who experience the weight and value of life every day are the witnesses of such gripping moments, for they are the ones who experience the passing of life near the body. The value of living for Hungary can be found in the military oath, and here is a small portion of the oath text, please listen to it: I will defend Hungary's independence, the rights and freedom of citizens bravely, by following and enforcing the laws, with the power of soldiers and weapons entrusted to me at the cost of my life. As an ancient Hungarian custom, the officers also give the torque to this by drawing the sword, the closing sentence of which, for the sake of the country, to the death! A cry for help. It also shows that the offering of the sacrifice of life to Hungarian soldiers is not unknown. The soldier shows the complete surrender for Hungary, even the resignation of his life in our society. At the same time, they are not alone in this sacrifice, for camp priests, camp ministers, and camp chiefs bring the one God's mercy, its comfort and support to the soldier's life, his family, and his surroundings. [[17.40]] The soldier is not alone in difficult situations in his profession, he receives constant spiritual support, in a sharp position, as the congressman pointed out, it is the camp priest, the pastor, the chief rabbi who provides direct spiritual assistance and gives the soldier who fights for his country. The Hungarian Army is celebrating the 25th anniversary of its revival. On 13 July 1993, the National Assembly dissolved the provision of community religion which prevented it from being reestablished in the spring of the following year, along with the three services of the field ministry: the Catholic camp bishop, the Protestant camp bishop and the camp rabbinate. The Ministry of Defence and the Hungarian Defence are committed to paying particular attention to the personal needs of Hungarian soldiers, including their spiritual support. The conscious representation of God in Hungarian defence is not only a confirmation of those practicing their religion, but also of all soldiers who can claim help, support and spiritual healing in a lively situation through the representatives of the churches. In order for prepared and physically healthy soldiers to be in spirit, special care must also be taken to provide spiritual support for soldiers. The camp priest, the pastor, the rabbi will help you, listen to you, you'll have to work hard to keep the soldier's mental health going. Dear fellow Members, The security of every member of the military families is a treasure, a value that cannot and should not be sacrificed on the altar of any political will. The field ministry carries out priority tasks in major foreign missions, as the Member pointed out. The Hungarian field ministry has not only a past but also a clear, up-to-date vision. It is decided, for example, that as part of the Hausmann plan, the reconstruction and construction of the Church of Mary Magdalene will take place in the Castle. Finally, I would like to thank all those who live in the field ministry for their vocation, camp bishops, chief rabbis, priests and clergymen, and encourage them to continue to share with the Hungarian soldiers in their daily lives. May your devoted work be accompanied by God's blessing. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-05-158	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. And I will now really give the opportunity to speak to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpat:. How long? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-03-05-159	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to express my pleasure along the way that the demographic issue has finally become one of today's frequently discussed topics in addition to a number of other political topics, but, as my friend Ander Balázs used to call it, in the middle of a demographic winter in Atlantis, it does not hurt to clarify how difficult it is for someone who wants to change. The comparison with the millennium revealed amazing sequences of numbers, which is clear from the 2018 edition of the Demographic Portrait. In this sense, there is a clear increase in childlessness: the proportion of those who have first children has fallen from 92% to 84 percent in the turn of the millennium, which means that from 8 percent to 16 percent, the proportion of those without children has doubled. There is also a drop in the number of two children, from 78 percent to 67 percent, but fortunately, the number of people from two children is clearly increasing, and they are the ones who are taking this whole process on their backs from the point of view of population. They are responsible for the decrease, although detectable and rapid, but not more falllike. At the same time, it seems that the proportion of people who stop after a child seems to be increasing, so the number of people who take a child cannot, can't, can't, can't, or are forced to make a decision that discourages them. And the number of large families, as I mentioned, remained relatively stable. At the same time, a two-way process is used as a defense against government issues. In one sense, we often argue about the evolution of the number and proportion of children born outside the territory of Hungary, and we often blame the government on the fact that, due to the amazing acceleration of emigration, according to some calculations, one in six, more cautious estimates, one in every nine-tenth child sees the light of day outside our current borders. Although long debates could be held on this issue, the most sobering figure in itself was that in 2015 in Transylvania there were 9071 Hungarian children. It is not difficult to see that if we have a plan for any Carpathian Basin which aims to create a single economic zone in the Carpathian Basin alongside Hungarian dominance, the hinterland of this is at least damaging at the moment, and it definitely requires intervention with regard to the expansion of family support. At the same time, we see, and this is the way the government defends the fact that Hungarian citizens born in the territory of non-Hungary can subsequently register their children in Hungary. It is worth considering how often this happened between 2010 and 2016 as measured. We can see that even if the children of our brothers born across the border were only 78,000 such cases, they might have been born in Szeklerland. I would also like to say that there are initiatives in Hungary that we have supported, and I myself have supported, family tax relief. It is no coincidence, however, that, after a few years, the government was forced to recognise that the system of family tax incentives can typically act upwards from the upper middle class towards more fortunate social groups. Therefore, recognising this, since 2014, the family contribution allowance has slightly broadened the scope that could be achieved. At the same time, in terms of low incomes, as regards young Hungarians who are emigrated or emigration thinkers, this government has not yet wanted to give positive messages. We should be thinking about three pillars here, shouldn't we? A public-based housing scheme would be needed to resolve housing difficulties. The government is used to citing the CSOK here, as otherwise supported by me, but it has to be seen from the calculations that the total discount weight of CSOK has been taken away by the increase in the property market, the increase in labour costs and the increase in labour shortages. Therefore, the social segment that consists of lower incomes should also be clearly favoured, where appropriate, if you would like to live or start your life on rent, but there has not been any attempt to do so. However, within the VAT system, both basic foods, as we discussed yesterday, and the highest VAT rate in Europe should be reduced and reduced in terms of child-rearing articles, precisely so that the demographic winter will cease, and instead of sinking Atlantis, Hungary will finally become a growing community capable of building itself. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2019-03-05-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its meeting next week at 11 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
