u2019-04-01-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 12th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the leadership of the meeting, notary Lajos Szűcs and Sándor Szabó. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear House, Bertalan Tóth, head of the MSZP faction, applied for a pre-meeting speech on current affairs. Here you go.
u2019-04-01-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I thought it was a joke on 1 April that there would be a parliamentary meeting here today after a quarter of an hour's delay, but Mr President has arrived. In the past few weeks, months would not have followed the events, because it would have been unimaginable and unimaginable, the process that we have seen the Hungarian government face the European values completely openly, the values of Hungarians, the values that 84 percent of Hungarians decided on during the referendum and said yes to the accession of the European Union. It would also be unimaginable for them, it might seem like a April joke, that the Hungarian government will be prosecuted for slamming the rule of law, or that Fidesz' membership in the European People's Party has been suspended, but the way Fidesz communicates it seems to be a huge success story. We know that joke when a little drunk comes to the pub and falls off his bike, everyone laughs at it, and then says that's how I get off my bike. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Szanyi! Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] So that's about what this explanation is worth. But the situation is much more serious, and it is absolutely impossible to laugh at it, and it is not a joke, because Fidesz and the government have lost their ability to assert their interests in the European Union, when the budget for the coming period will be adopted by the European Parliament, when the foundations of a common Europe are being laid right now, when the European Union continues and deepens the process of social Europe. In fact, Fidesz is drifting out of the main line by excluding it from the European People's Party, which would guarantee the well-being, future and safety of Hungarian people, Hungarian families. After all, what will happen if the provision that EU aid is linked to the criteria of the rule of law and the aid for Hungary is suspended? What happens if the government says and the Fidesz majority says that, yeah, then we don't have to belong to this community, why should Hungary remain a member of the European Union? Now, this is the process that you have launched with the system that you have built in Hungary, which has no other purpose but to bring back most of the EU funds, and to build in the background the dictatorship that we are witnessing to suppress the freedom of speech, to crush rights in Hungary. Moreover, you are forging history, trying to restore and praise a system that was openly anti-Semitic and which caused the deaths of hundreds of thousands of Hungarian citizens. This is your policy, this is what we can do to get out of the European Union. For this reason, the Hungarian Socialist Party has a huge responsibility, as it is up to us to represent the interests of Hungarian people and Hungarian families in the European Parliament. This is what the European programme we have formulated is about: "Home." Love. Europe. It is about building a social Europe, not about having as few common rules as possible, which you do not need to comply with, but to have as many rules as possible that guarantee the safety of Hungarian people, Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses. That is why we will fight in the European Parliament to have a minimum wage of EUR 750, a gross minimum wage of HUF 236 thousand in Europe; a minimum pension of EUR 300; a minimum pension of HUF 94 thousand; and a family allowance of EUR 150; a maximum of 20 per cent of the VAT, because the VAT that is favourable to the rich, the incredibly high VAT that hit the poor, must be reduced. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You raised him to 25 percent in 2006.]] ; and we will fight to give Hungarian farmers a minimum of EUR 300 per hectare. This is our European programme, which is why we are struggling to ensure that these are guaranteed by common rules, that you cannot bypass this, that you cannot exploit the Hungarian workers with a slave law, that you cannot continue to build the corruption system, which will result in Lőrinc Mészáros, who is not the Prime Minister's stooge, can be the richest man in the world with our money, with the money of the European people. This money should be there for the Hungarian families. We are fighting to protect the interests of the Hungarian people. We Socialists will represent [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We will fight for the interests of the Hungarians. Thank you very much.
u2019-04-01-2	On behalf of the government, Mr. Csaba Dömötör will answer. There you go. I'll give you the floor.
u2019-04-01-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, His statements about EU membership in April are weak and meaningful. [[An uproar in the ranks of MSZP and DK.]] We see that they have also started collecting signatures in addition to EU membership; this is the right of their hearts, but on this basis they could have started collecting signatures for blue skies, wet water and hot summers. I say this because there has been a referendum on this, with clear results, which obliges all Hungarian public figures, and does not, to my knowledge, call into question EU membership by a serious public figure. [[Gergely Harvesto: Except Orbán!]] However, we have many debates with the Brussels institutions, but that is a different story, because in how to travel within the EU in political terms, how to represent the country, how to stand up for our interests, there is already a world that separates your perspective from our policy. Those who look at your programme and I am very pleased that you brought it up, they also spoke about it yesterday, they also published in writing, who is watching this programme, you can see that a lot of strategic powers would be thrown to the bureaucrats in Brussels with all the consequences. Without the need for completeness: they would give up the right to determine wages; Jobbik tried to do so last year. [[9.50]] They would then hand over the right to determine minimum pensions, part of the tax definition, but they would not stop there: like DK, the definition of family allowances would also be left to Brussels. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Because there would be more! Szabó Timea: How bad it would be to have three times the family allowance!]] It's all in their program, they talked about it yesterday, it's confirmed now. The problem with this, honourable Member, is that despite the transfer of powers to bureaucrats, pensions, wages and family allowances will not be higher, and even if multi-company lobbying is much higher in Brussels, increases will be much less likely. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] like leaving them to the actors in Hungary. Only Hungarian institutions can be expected to view Hungarian interests in the first place, and we cannot expect unelected bureaucrats to do so. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Lőrinc Ripper! As a Hungarian interest!]] That's what your biggest political mistake is. It enhances the image of the same flawed approach in the area of migration, which is the most important for our future. From this point of view, I have also looked at their programme and they support the transformation of border protection rights on the basis of their programme, which is even more frightening by their statement in their programme that they want a European Union where there is no need for fences, so they will continue to attack the border lock. They also say that there is no limit to solidarity. Solidarity in the Brussels flowering language represents the resettlement quota in immigration policy. So you continue to support this, which is not too surprising after you voted for it in November 2017, not only the quota, but also the penalty in case someone does not want to participate. And let us not forget, because this is also included in your programme, that you are proud to support Mr Frans Timmermans, the top candidate on the left, who believes that societies will become diverse everywhere, and that Central European countries will have to get used to it. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] You are proud to support such a political leader's proposal; we, thank you, do not ask for it. On the one hand, it is a good thing that the MSZP has put these things on paper and included them in a programme, that it may be clear to everyone that the left would weaken Hungary in the blink of an eye, on the one hand, by handing over decisive powers voluntarily and singing to Brussels bureaucrats and, on the other hand, by implementing virtually immediately any migration incentive plan to which it has so far [[Zsolt Gréczy: You brought in 86,000 people!]] We've been able to resist. I am sure that this policy will be rejected by the Hungarians in full rows in May. Dear Chief of Staff, It is not the patriotic behaviour of Europe, and it is not the patriotic behaviour of running under the carpet in our external relations. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: If you steal the carpet, it's European!]] and we accept all the issues that are being imposed on us, but that we take on the debates and stand up for the country. Believe me, Your Honour, this is the only thing worth it in the long run. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-4	I am saddened that my fellow opposition Members are so nervous in the morning that they cannot remain silent for ten minutes. [[Interventions from the ranks of MSZP and DK: We are not nervous at all!]] Then, when I give you the floor, if you'll please live with it, especially with regard to the woman in charge of the Dialogue Group, who has applied. Before that, however, Ferenc Gyurcsány, leader of the group, will follow from DK. Here you go. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-5	In view of the fact that the government has been essentially not in contact with its own country and opposition for years, I am not trying to restore this conversation, nor do I wish to speak to you this morning, but to the voters, on the last parliamentary day before the elections to the European Parliament. I would tell the voters not to support the government that, I see, wants to play with history. I must warn them that history is greater than politics. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] There are, and there have been, politicians in recent years who have attempted to do so and have lost them. [[Intervention from the ranks of the governing parties: Ferenc Gyurcsány! Defiance in the same place.]] The Hungarian Prime Minister will join this line now. He tried to play history because of a simple election case, the former British Prime Minister Cameron, and today he has put his country in an unsolvable trap. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: There was a referendum behind it!]] That's what happened. The Turkish President is trying to play with history, whose Turkish Lira's value has dropped to a third of its ten-year anniversary, as if now a thousand forints should be given for a euro. The American President is playing with history when he says America is the first, and since he was in the morning, the U.S. foreign trade deficit has not decreased, but has grown. I do not claim that the Hungarian Prime Minister wants Hungary out of the European Union, but that this game may end regardless of its intention, after Brexit we call it Huxit, I am almost certain, because it has long been out of control of its European policy. The question is not what he wants, but what is the result of his actions, whether it is an unwanted consequence. And I think, watching Hungary's struggle for many centuries [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] The fact that 28 countries are trying to preserve what Europe was and what Europe wants to become in the spirit of peaceful cooperation must be taken care of, and the Hungarian Prime Minister is not taking care of it, but endangering it. I understand many disappointments that they are seeking a new path. It's been a hell of 20 years in the world, that's true. It is true that very few have become rich, and the vast majority are in one place. But what I can tell you is that I can tell all those who, in their disappointment, are seeking a new path, that this is not found in the extremist, radical, anti-ethnic Europe, the anti-Brussels forces, but among the democratic Central Party forces who understand the need to re-establish relations between the influential and vulnerable, the poor and the rich, and one country alone does not know this, but only the great joint alliance of nations. In Hungary, large international companies pay a third of the corporate tax as a small Hungarian medium-sized enterprise. We didn't do this, but you, who are supposedly on the side of Hungarian people. Patriotism, ladies and gentlemen, is not constantly repeated grief because of the past, patriotism is not cowardly, patriotism is not a revival, patriotism is a struggle to make our children, our grandchildren, have a better life, and today in this world we cannot do it any different than we can with other European nations. You're putting this at risk. [[10.00]] When we talk about European united states, we are talking about a national alliance that can compete with the most powerful powers in the world from the United States to China. We do not want to sell Hungarian sovereignty, but we want to practice it together with others, because we see friendship, marriage, anything more powerful than loneliness. You want a lonely Hungary, and we want a nation united with many people in Europe, which can preserve its values, history, language, culture, together with others. You're acting like cowards, and I'm offering the Hungarians courage. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-04-01-6	Mr. Csaba Dömötör has the floor again.
u2019-04-01-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, You spoke about the spring election, you gave your speech this title, but you are not a spring, you are a brutal autumn. I'm telling you this because it also partly classified Hungarian democracy, and we have the feeling that when Ferenc Gyurcsány talks about democracy, it's like a wolf talking about a vegan diet. You didn't happen to be the prime minister who had eyes blown out. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: No!]] And the culprits were even decorated? So much for your attitude towards democracy. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: The Fidesz was behind it.]] Dear Chief of Staff, He told me a lot of things here, suggested weed and water. It was a bit like that when he promised tax cuts in 2006 in a fancy advertising film, and then, as we know, in the months that followed, he put brutal restrictions on the country's neck. So, such sound suggestions, however theatrically they may be, must be taken seriously. As far as Europe is concerned, if anyone wants to know what policy DK would pursue in Brussels, they should not listen to Ferenc Gyurcsány's theatrically spoken words, but look at last week's European Parliament minutes and what Ferenc Gyurcsány's people did. The European Parliament adopted a resolution urging immigrants from Africa to legalise their status. It is said that not only refugees but also all migrants, including economic migrants, need to be allowed the possibility of legal immigration. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Viktor Orbán also signed this!]] Now, the Democratic Coalition has voted for that. [[Noise in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-04-01-8	Back off, fellow Members. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: What happened?]] Keep your heads down! [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I've completely held back!]] The fact that it's April 1st, and it's known as the common folk name, doesn't excuse you from being normal. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Neither do you. Zsolt Gréczy: Will you tell me?!]] Here you go. Yes, I am. [[Constant noise, intervention from the opposition side.]] Me.
u2019-04-01-9	So, this report was voted by representatives of the Democratic Coalition. So this report was voted by representatives of the Democratic Coalition. We have every right to ask what a autumn pace this is. Your wife, who is the top of the list, simply says to the camera that there are no plans to support immigration, and in the meantime, they're gonna vote for anything that would increase immigration. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: No! Landing policy!]] And this isn't the only case they've had in recent years. You voted earlier on the resettlement quota, the migrant visa, and you personally protested against the border lock. [[Gergely Arató: You do not support the border patrol!]] I don't even mention how many dozens of embarrassing letters have been sent to thousands of addresses in Brussels. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: No! Only the Hungarian government!]] How many times have you spoken out against your country? No one in the European Parliament does such discrediting actions outside the Hungarian left. It's a shame! [[Zsolt Gréczy: Orbán initiated the taking of Hungarian money! Shame on you.]] Dear Chief of Staff, The leader of the Democratic Coalition is your wife. Now, I'm not gonna let you play house of card, you know, mix cards inside a family; that's the internal business of the Democratic Coalition. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Rachel Orbán!]] But it is very important that he is the leader of the Democratic Coalition. [[Gergely Harvester: Klára Dobrev, I'll help you, that's what it's called!]] has been campaigning for the European United States over the past few weeks, not by chance for Hungary. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Europe is us too!]] Let us make it clear here that the united European states are, in fact, strengthening bureaucracy at the expense of Hungary. Its realization would mean that we should hand over racially significant powers. We would have a minor say in taxation or even the definition of energy prices, but I could also mention the issue of justice. And you would, astoundingly, even delegate the definition of family allowances to Brussels, and many of them will not be good. [[Gergely Harvestó: Plus family allowance!]] Because if it happened, its primary beneficiaries would be immigrants, and you know it very well. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You're going to Europe!]] Dear Chief of Staff, It is no surprise at all what is in DK's programme, because it follows directly from the fact that your family business, your family business, has received hundreds of millions of orders from Brussels. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] And that's the fundamental difference between us. This is the fundamental difference between us, because you are not wearing a Hungarian jersey, but the field of bureaucracy in Brussels, because you have a financial interest in it. [[Szabó Timea: Elios!]] On the other hand, we would like to send people to the European Parliament who stand up for Hungary even at the cost of hard debates, difficult minutes and unpleasant conflicts. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Like Tamás Deutsch! Hold up a Juncker sign, please.]] The choice in May is truly crucial, because we can choose a future. We are on the side of Hungarians instead of bureaucracy. This is patriotism, Your Honour. And who's playing with history? We believe that it is the person who is playing with history who would sacrifice Hungary's independence and his hard-earned achievements. We're not gonna let that happen. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Hold up a Juncker sign!]] Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-10	Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you consider yourself a democratic opposition. I wouldn't go along with the fact that it's an exclusion, as if it's an opinion on the opposite side of you. But it is a rather specific sense of democracy that they are unable to listen calmly to the opinion of the other side for five minutes. [[Gergely Harvestó: That wasn't an opinion, it was a lie!]] Whatever insulting remarks you make on the other side, whatever nonsense you make, the government side will listen to you. Compared to that, you try to make it impossible for the government side to respond to your abuse by shouting in a continuous choir. If this is democracy, ladies and gentlemen, then it is a pity to fight with such great forces. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Thank you for your valuable comments.]] Szabó Timea is next.
u2019-04-01-11	This is the last parliamentary session and the week before the elections to the European Parliament, so now and again and here we have to say what futures Hungarians should and can choose when they cast their vote on 26 May. Let's take a look at the events of the last few weeks. Orbán constantly lies about the European elections that immigration and support for families will have to be chosen. This is interesting because it was not the opposition parties, but you and Viktor Orbán who recently admitted 300 Venezuelan refugees to Hungary in the biggest secret. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: They are Hungarians!]] The arrivals received a free flight to Budapest, and for at least a year they can live in a free apartment, and most of them do not know a single word in Hungarian, even though it was a requirement to have Hungarian ancestors. The problem is not that they are accepted, but that while Viktor Orbán lies through the media about immigrants, while not helping Hungarian families in need at home. There are plenty of poor families at home who could use some help. For example, the eviction moratorium expired yesterday, and from today hundreds of Hungarian families will be put on the street, elderly people, patients and children. Last year alone, ten thousand families were evicted, including a dying, cancer - nursing mother and disabled elderly couples. On 26 May, we have the choice of voting for the European Parliament: improbable lying in Orbán or the support of all Hungarian families in need. Then let's see what other vision Viktor Orbán has to offer. This week, Mary Schmidt, Director General of the House of Terror, was cheering on Miklós Horthy, saying that she had restored the nation's self-esteem. The government did not protest at all against the insufferable sentence, which is understandable, of course. Even under Horthy, we became a country of three million beggars while the government built castle hostels. You look familiar, don't you? Under Horthy, Hungarian science, culture and business suffered irreplaceable losses. This looks familiar, doesn't it? Horthy distinguished between Hungarian and Hungarian, and contributed to the murder of more than half a million of our Jewish and Roma-born compatriots. And you're cheering this son of a bitch. But on May 26th, we have a choice: Horthy, an orbán policy that consumes our country, or a democratic community that fights for everyone's well-being. And speaking of our fellow Roma citizens: the Fidesz János Pócs who sat there, who locked his employee in a boiler and threw a burning paper at him [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Shame!]] You're still sitting in Parliament because you don't protest, and you tolerate such despicable bastards among yourselves! [[Zsolt Gréczy: Nazism!]] But the Dialogue has already subtitled the video that has been released from this, and we have sent it to all the MEPs. They will be delighted with your Christian values. We have a choice on 26 May: inhuman politicians closing our countrymen in a boiler or communities that respect human dignity. [[10.10]] But it will also be interesting for the EU to think that the mayor of Balatonözfő destroyed the Natura 2000 protected forest in order for his son to build a beach volleyball center. May 20 We can choose: Fidesz, who steals our Lake Balaton from our children, who destroys the last protected tree for money, or the community that protects our environment, who listens to our children's future. In the end, the European election is also about who we want to belong to, Europe or Russia. Orbán has already chosen Putin by building the life-threatening investment in Paks II and calling on Russian spies. It is clear that the International Investment Bank recently called by Viktor Orbán is a Russian spy centre whose KGB agents will walk freely in our country. So you can choose on 26 May: Russia or Europe. We with the politicians of the Dialogue want a humane, democratic and just Hungary and Europe, where we protect our national treasures and do not squander it to Lőrinc Mészáros or sell it to Putin. Jávor Benedek, European representative of the Dialogue, received this year's award for the best representative of the European Parliament, fighting for such a Europe and Hungary. Luckily, he gave you the chills, not for nothing, because it was, among other things, Benedek Jávor, who led the EU Anti-Fraud Office to investigate István Tiborcz's company Elios. Jávor was also the one who, with five years of hard work, defeated the Rosatom and the Hungarian government and sued the secret contracts of the Paks investment. But Jávor Benedek also fought to make the Union a stricter regulation of drinking water than before, so that, unlike you, we can protect our drinking water. We need people like you in the European Parliament, and not people like you who sell your mother for two forints. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And squandered... [[The president's gonna turn off the speaker's mic. István Szilárd Németh: What does this woman think of herself?! A round of applause in the dialogue.]]
u2019-04-01-12	Congresswoman, shame on you. And choose your words. He's in Parliament, not in a pub. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] Next up is Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-04-01-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear House, The opposition parties may be very nervous before the elections to the European Parliament; they may have a reason. This morning, the opposition parties jointly announced a programme of national disbelief. They said that they wanted Hungary to have a future from Ferenc Gyurcsány through the Dialogue to the MSZP, and that Jobbik would be joining this in a new way, they would like a Europe, a Hungary where they decide as little as possible on Hungarian matters in Budapest and more things in Brussels. I do not know why you believe that the interests of Hungarian people can be represented better than Budapest in the capitals of other countries or other empires. Why is it believed that the European Union, which could not overcome the global economic crisis in 2008, could not solve it, but that measures were taken at the nation state level, which ultimately eliminated one of the most prolonged effects of the global economic crisis, because Brussels was unable to provide useful ways, useful means of exiting from the crisis for European states, and will show in the migration crisis that it is able to provide a remedy for this and proposals for this? Neither Brussels was able to lead the European Member States out of the global economic crisis, but all the Member States came out of it after 2008 and the biggest mistake in the issue of migration would be to allow a little, to the least extent, any of our powers from here, Budapest, Hungary, to Brussels, because so far Brussels has not been able to deal with any global or continental crisis. In the cucumber curve, yes, in the bureaucracy, yes, in the follow-up of genderideologies, but not in any sharp, economically or socially significant matter of the continent's future. You, honourable Member, your faction is in a huge debauchery. Coming to a conflict in the European Union is not a shame, but, where appropriate, an obligation when the national interest so requires. And to criticize a government here in Parliament because, for the sake of the nation, either in referendums, in national consultations or in elections, after a clear declaration of will, he is in conflict in Brussels for the sake of the nation, after which he is scolding us, with the slightest indication, you could say, anti-democratic or role-making. For you, it is to find a way to ask for the MSZP list and to have some place, if someone resigns for the benefit of someone, then there should also be a representative of the Dialogue, in an old SZDSZ way, honourable Member, you do not want to go out there to fight for the interests of the Hungarian people, but to fight for the interests of Brussels in Hungary. [[Timea Szabó and Ágnes Kunhalmi constantly intervene.]] They're sitting all the way around, honourable Member, on the horse. And that is what you say about Venezuelan Hungarians. Politicians who roamed Szeklers for 25-30 years, now those who have Hungarian ancestors, Hungarian families and Hungarian identities, Hungary will help them all over the world, in Europe, America, Asia, Africa, anywhere around the world, Hungarians or people with Hungarian ancestors who have Hungarian identities are asking for our country's help. [[Szabó Timea: Why did you hide it?]] And we will not romanticise the Transylvanian Szeklers or emigrate the Venezuelan Hungarians, honourable Member, as you have done. That's a huge difference. We are fighting for the interests of the Hungarian people here and everywhere. [[Gergely Arató: You decide who is Hungarian.]] It will not frighten us if your various ideological associates, such as the Swedish Minister for Social Affairs, then say the same thing as you, honourable Member, that what is here reminds us of the '30s. We help families raise their children in financial security, and those who want to have children can have as many children as possible. If you think it's some kind of "30s" wink, we're rejecting it the most. Which means any kind of Russian affair, you are having a wedding dance with the Jobbik, which sent KGBela to the European Parliament, honourable Member. How can they fall in love with them if you're so against what's happening in Russia? You, honourable Member, opposed the construction of the border lock. You suggested moving migrants into barracks. You said literally that quota is the best solution to the migration crisis. You believe that Christian culture in Europe is not threatened by immigration, and you believe that absenteeism was the best decision people could make in the referendum. You are putting Hungary's future at risk [[The president's ringing the bell.]] You are a party of national disbelief, along with other opposition parties. [[Intercoms from the opposition. Applause in the pro-government benches.]] Thank you very much.
u2019-04-01-14	Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, also came forward before the agenda. Here you go.
u2019-04-01-15	Shall I begin?
u2019-04-01-16	Yeah, yeah. Here you go.
u2019-04-01-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, While President János Áder in New York at the UN General Assembly on Climate Change talks about the world's greatest challenge of climate change, here in Hungary the government is not very concerned about the consequences of climate change in Hungary. It has been said for weeks that there has been a huge drought, and such a water shortage has not been experienced in the past 20 years. The Hungarian Chamber of Agriculture draws attention to the fact that drought can cause Hungarian farmers to lose up to a hundred billion in revenue. Of the arable crops, autumn wheat and rape crops are most at risk. According to the Fruit and Vegetables Product Council, an extraordinary drought in the South Great Plain could make it impossible to sow and hatch thousands of hectares. This concerns the sowing of green peas, poppy seeds, oil radishes, spinach, but also red onions and root vegetables that will soon be for sowing. Ladies and gentlemen, We might think that the government is sensitive to these facts; they make it sensitive to climate change and the effects of climate change. But no, that's not what's happening. At the very least, we'll hear that it needs watering. But we must acknowledge that water is a limited natural treasure. Thus, the drought will be experienced directly by the Hungarian people in a significant rise in prices. At the same time, there is something to be done and what needs to be done. According to the LMP, one of the most important tasks to preserve our crop results is to increase the capacity of agriculture to adapt through the transformation of agricultural subsidies. Agricultural aid should be redirected to promote high environmental quality and high food quality cultivation technologies. [[10.20]] But that's not what happens to grants, it's in the back of Fidesz. Unfortunately, because climate change is the biggest challenge of our time, the government and Viktor Orbán did not have much value. They do not understand that action must be taken at the same time at the UN level, i.e. at global level, at the level of the European Union and at national level in order to combat climate change. If the government understood, they would not prevent or oppose the European Union's strict climate plan. Two weeks ago, the Hungarian government and German representatives joined the Czech Republic and Poland, virtually vetoed the European Union's rigorous climate plan for 2050, which would have been aimed at reducing CO2 emissions to zero by 2050. All this proves that the government doesn't care about the fate of the Earth, doesn't care about global climate change. It is also clear that it refuses to take measures to curb climate change in Hungary and prepare for adaptation tasks. This week, the UN World Meteorological Service issued its 2018 report, highlighting that climate change is accelerating and the consequences are drastic. If greenhouse gas emissions continue over the next period to the same extent as last year, for example, a temperature increase of 3-5 degrees Celsius will occur at global level by the end of the century compared to the period before the industrial revolution. However, this will have disastrous consequences in the Carpathian Basin and in our country. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The two are the same!]] This area is very exposed to climate change. So as long as the government slows down because of the interests of German car manufacturers, it blocks the fight against global warming, the Hungarians who live here will suffer. Therefore, LMP calls on the government not to interfere with the strict climate plan in Brussels. What is very important is that the real stake in the elections to the European Parliament is [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári:]] that in the European Parliament... there should be a European Parliament and a Commission capable of addressing climate change as a priority. Climate change cannot be suspended, it cannot be negotiated, it cannot be negotiated separately, and climate change cannot be stopped at the border. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-04-01-18	On behalf of the Government, the floor is for Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés.
u2019-04-01-19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and This is not the first time we have talked about this in Parliament, and it is probably not the last time. Before giving a meaningful answer, I would like to draw attention to the fact that combating the negative effects of climate change is one of the government's most important tasks. [[Antal Csárdi: Oh!]] Before I go to justify this sentence, I would like to mention the agricultural impact that you have raised as a problem. At the moment, as the government observed, mainly by means of professional signals, it immediately took the necessary action, for example by extending the duration of irrigation and supporting it earlier. Next year, for example, this supported irrigation period will be extended by a period of about one and a half to two months. This means that the irrigation season will run from 1 March to 31 October 2019, in which the farmer will be charged a lower fee. As the sector of the economy saw the need for agriculture to take action by the government, the government, the portfolio, took action at that moment. Of course, to confirm my first sentence, I would like to tell you a little bit more that you and everyone should know that Hungary was among the first countries to ratify the Paris climate agreement, for example. This decision is both the fundamental and the horizon of our emission policy and the Union's entire emission policy. It is therefore very important to say that Hungary was among the first to take action on climate change and on the issues and answers to this. However, we are all aware, and I hope you are aware, that the issue of emissions is not just a country's responsibility and that the answer there is not a country, it is not an area, it is not an economic sector. I would like to make the allegations that you have said that you are not telling the truth, who claims that the government would not support, for example, the EU's emission reduction efforts. Firstly, the proposal in question also supported the Hungarian negotiating position during the EU negotiations, the position to achieve a 15 per cent reduction by 2025. We supported measures to facilitate the spread of hybrid cars with zero emissions and low emissions. We would also have supported reducing emissions from motor vehicles to 30% by 2030, but one change was made in the European Parliament. A higher value has been set, a 37.5 percent reduction has been defined, in which we have our questions, since we do not have a calculation that shows that this can be achieved, so we support the 30 percent reduction. If we consider this reduction to be justified and feasible in the coming period, we will, of course, support this as well. However, according to our current knowledge, these conditions do not exist now. We say that such an objective can be seen as a gamble. I must draw your attention to all opposition representatives who agree with you that if, for example, you launch a unilateral attack on car emissions and do not support the level of reduction that we have adopted, in this case, you do not monitor the effects of other pollution, because not only cars are causing damage to the environment, they have an impact on climate change, but we have to take into account even more serious impacts in a completely different area. It is very, very important to mention that, for example, emissions from motor vehicles are around 15 percent of total emissions. There is a significant increase in emissions of pollutants, for example, from power plants, heat plants, where fossil energy is used to produce energy. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] So I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the government is doing everything it can to meet the deadlines and performances it has undertaken, and will do everything it can to take this into account in the next period. Sorry for the delay, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-04-01-20	Now it's Congressman Brenner Koloman on Jobbik's side. Here you go.
u2019-04-01-21	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Bérunio or Soviet Union? that. s the question on 26 May. After all, we can see that a Russian secret service bank is being outlawed by Fidesz right now, that Comrade Putin is visiting our country with a somewhat unusual frequency in foreign diplomacy. Instead, our biggest problem remains that an average Hungarian worker earns about a quarter of the EU average. More and more of those previously free community services are becoming paid, and the development of wages, whatever the KSH statistics say, has not been followed, as the gross Hungarian average wage above HUF 300 thousand shown by KSH is in reality only a dream for seven out of ten Hungarians, while the price of consumer goods has steadily increased and has largely reached the Western level. In Sopron, people slowly travel to the neighbouring Austria to refuel, 30 years after the change of regime. The net income of Hungarians is as behind the average wages of the Member States of the old 15 of the European Union as it was in 2003, so a year before the accession of Hungary to the European Union. These are the facts, fellow Members. [[10.30]] In addition, 600-700 thousand Hungarians have left the country in the last nine years, as we can see the fall of demographic data, and I do not want to talk about health indicators and the difficult situation of education. This is done by allowing 86 thousand migrants in despite the hundred billion-dollar propaganda of Fidesz, without proper control, so the government has made our country a country of emigrants and immigrants at the same time. Compared to this, Jobbik announced, with its EU Wage Initiative, a complex shift in economic philosophy many years ago. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Giving up sovereignty!]] What they were trying to explain from the beginning is that it is completely unrealistic to get the wages of Western European countries immediately. Of course, this is true, but it doesn't matter what direction we turn the Marshall aid money that the European Union will vote for our country again in the next seven years anyway. Although we have spent most of the last seven-year-old Marshal's aid money on corruption and on the concrete of Lőrinc Mészáros, unfortunately, but the stakes are still high on 26 May, ladies and gentlemen, because once again, a Marshall's aid will come, even if the European Commission wants to give 25 percent less money to our country at present; this is still likely to change positively, as we hope. Instead of a assembly plant, Jobbik wants to reach Hungary, based on modern technology and knowledge. EU funds should be better used to support small and medium-sized enterprises, as this new Marshall aid can only be useful if we move towards a knowledge-based society. This is against Fidesz's anti-knowledge and intellectual policy, the most striking sign of which is the fact that the researchers of the MTA are already going out on the street against your shameful policy. Well, we've come here to see that the young researchers of the MTA and not the old Bolsheviks are sitting in your party because they were on the Chain Bridge protesting your anti-intellectual policy, my fellow Members? Teachers can, of course, be forbidden to strike, everything can be banned, Mr. Speaker, it can be punished, because obviously everything that violates your theft must be stopped immediately. At the same time, the proportion of early school leavers has steadily increased, one or two of ten young Hungarians studying the profession remain in their own profession, with such dropout. So we see that migration can, of course, then be referred to. Let me tell you right here that Jobbik has secured two-thirds to conduct police officers who are missing from Sopron and elsewhere. [[Károly Kontra: It's not true!]] At the same time, 86,000 migrants were admitted. Your self suspension in the European People's Party will lead to Viktor Orbán and Fidesz leading our country out of the EU. Instead of this irresponsible policy, let us choose the responsible conservative force, Jobbik, and let us choose a safe Europe and a free Hungary. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-04-01-22	I give the floor to Secretary Balázs Orbán. Here you go. [[Szilárd István Németh: Do I have to answer that?]]
u2019-04-01-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, If it is really important for you, as the Hungarians' wages have been heard from the speech, then you have nothing to do but to support the Hungarian government's policy. In your speech, you gave me the opportunity to give you the relevant data of the HCSO: In January 2019 the gross earnings in Hungary amounted to HUF 343 500. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Government Statistics!]] net earnings without discounts were HUF 228 400, both increased by 10.6 percent compared to the same period of the previous year, and, as we discussed, the economy grew by 4.9 percent in Hungary. You obviously do not deny that there is a link between economic growth, wages and the number of jobs available, in a way that the better the country performs, the more jobs the Hungarians have at their disposal. Obviously this is why since 2010 800,000 more people have been working [[Zsolt Gréczy: in London!]] and unemployment fell from 12 percent to 3.6 percent. The number of people employed today is 4.5 million, and this is 56 thousand more than a year ago. Gross-net wages have grown steadily not only this year but also in recent years. There's one thing I need to put right in your speech. Last week, Mr Gyöngyösi, Head of the Group, said false data: the figure for 86 thousand people is simply not true, what you said here in your speech. [[György Szilágyi: Your KSH!]] According to the immigration data provided by KSH, the number of foreigners arriving for more than 12 months was 25 thousand in 2015 and 36 thousand in 2017. It's simply not true the data you claim is true. And by the way, you mentioned the matter of the union. Now, in view of what we are hearing from the opposition parties on the left, I cannot interpret it any other way than that it is again about Hungary handing over powers in Brussels, Hungary as a nation state should cease to exist, and we should operate in the European Empire, and we should decide from Brussels what subsidies Hungarians will receive, what kind of family support system Hungarians will receive. This is a problem, honourable Member, and the problem is that if your proposal does not believe the link between immigration and support for families, then pay attention to foreign examples, because a Finnish research institute published an analysis of the integration of a Somali or Iraqi immigrant, i.e. the money that the state spends on these immigrants, is between 200 and 300 million forints. [[Noise.]] This means that about one million euros are spent by a given state, obviously because these people are not able to enter the labour market, but are in the social care system, and this one million euro cannot be spent on supporting Hungarian families and increasing wages, it cannot be spent on what the Hungarian State would like to devote to, it is true that the increase in wages and economic growth [[The president's ringing the bell.]] what has been achieved in Hungary in recent years continues to be achieved. At the moment, there are two Europes. One is a concept based on a Europe of nations, which is precisely the denial of proposals that are the main distinguishing feature of which you have mentioned. We do not want to give new powers to Brussels, we want to keep powers to Hungary. And there is another, a Europe of so-called visionaries and fantasies, which is about abolishing nations, handing over powers and powers, developing a multicultural society, and building on an imperialist imperial logic. This European Union, in our view, should not have been founded in Rome, based on visionaries and fantasies, but in Vienna, on the famous pamlagiarism of Dr Sigmund Freud. We'd appreciate it if the Jobbik faction didn't support that. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-24	It is now up to the leader of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Mr Péter Harrach. Here you go.
u2019-04-01-25	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I have given my speech the title that the family does not have an alternative; I hope that this does not arouse the opposition's ability to yell. [[Gergely Harvestó: Not in itself!]] This is not of great importance, but when it exceeds a certain limit, it must be said. We just said a sentence that we would sell our mother. A public figure can't say that. [[Peter James: He only puts people in boilers!]] We believe that every mother should be respected and that the relationship between mother and child should also be respected. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Today, Parliament is voting on the legislative amendment that will allow the family protection action plan to be implemented. I think it gives us all the pleasure to vote on a legislative amendment that supports the most generous package so far, about a family support system [[Gergely Harvesto: Only rich people get it!]] , which provides differentiated support for families in different living situations. I would also like to add to the title that we are not an ideological, but a natural family policy. [[10.40]] What does that mean? When the family does not have an alternative, however, many people seek it, they do so on an ideological basis; we refer to the law written in human nature, and if we are already Christian Democrats, let me say that, unlike my custom, [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] After all, in a political speech, let me quote the Scriptures. The poetic work that stands at the beginning of the Scriptures and is called the creation story gives us two important messages. One that said that the Creator created man in his own image. What does that mean? This means universal human dignity, from which our rights and responsibilities come, and this is equally present in all people. On the other hand, he created her as a man and a woman, and this, in addition to equal dignity, means different natures. When a man and a woman meet, because of their love and their different nature, a new life is created, who evolves within a woman, but as an individual, it has its own rights and the right to live, this man, when born, is the responsibility of the parents to wake up, care for, raise, and make up the family. So the family is, in this sense, the most natural and smallest community of society, which the state has an obligation to protect. The family as an institution deserves protection, but also the creation of the living conditions of the family, because that is what this package is about, which is to be prepared, which, of course, has not only legal, but also the terms of the government's decree, and that is what is being prepared and done. But this financial support, whether it is home-building or improving living conditions, is also at the same time trying to restore the authority of the family's community and institution. If you will allow me, a few words about this amendment and the elements that you are preparing. There are those that are constantly realized, such as nursery development; it is obviously implemented until 22:00. Some in 2020: this is the freedom of grandparents and women with four children. And there are four that are already in effect in July: baby shower credit, support, extension of the CSOK loan, extension of the reduction in mortgage debt, and car purchase discount for large families. I would ask all Members, regardless of party standing, to vote for this amendment in the interest of families. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-26	Once again, on behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. Here you go.
u2019-04-01-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, It can also be seen from the bill before Parliament today that everyone imagines the future of Europe differently, who responds to the decline in the population of Europe as a whole. While it is proposed to push migration in Brussels, we in Hungary are taking measures not to spend EUR 1 million, as has been said, on one immigrant, but to give families grants, tax incentives or other advantages that can help us to remove financial obstacles from their childbearing. At the same time, we can see that this is almost becoming a question of faith in Europe, and we can see that some people, say, from Sweden as Minister of Social Affairs, cry out fascism, some argue against childbearing because they say that it is too polluting, that child raising has very high CO2 emissions. Here too, in the Hungarian Parliament, there are representatives from the opposition benches who are tearing apart the national consultation sheet on the protection of families here in the middle of Parliament, because they believe that this is not what the country should be dealing with, that would not be the most important issue, and they are not interested in the opinions of the people or the future of families. Even the IKEA spent the weekend kicking one in the World Family Congress and demeaning people for whom the future of Europe, the future of their own country, and the support of families are important. It shows that this is not just a budgetary issue or a legislative issue, but new religions, new inquisitors have appeared in Europe, there are genderists, there are migrants; and we have seen over the past 20-25 years that many Western European companies or global companies have sought to put their hands on the markets of Central European and Eastern European countries, as well as on their resources and companies, to maximize their own profits, but do not serve the welfare of the people here. This was fully served by balliberal politics in Hungary for several cycles. But after this material, economic and financial expansion, we see that they would also like to carry out a similar spiritual destruction, and they would like the peoples of Central Europe and Eastern Europe themselves to ask that they not spend on their own families the tax forints or tax crowns they collect, but instead to spend their own money on immigrants from other countries relocated here under a mechanism in Brussels, brought here from Africa or Asia under an organised mechanism. They expect the Central European countries to ask for it themselves in relation to their own countries, and we regret to see that all the Hungarian opposition parties, from the first to the last, are willing to join this alliance. Not only was it typical of Balliberal politicians that Hungary was not economically protected when much stronger companies and companies appeared at the western or other gates of Hungary, but they would now serve Hungary at any time for this intellectual colonialization, and therefore whether we are talking about genderideology or whether we are talking about migration, they themselves are at the forefront of it, even here in Parliament. Pope Francis himself said of gender theory that the elimination of differences is not the solution, but the problem itself. We can also see that both in relation to gender and in relation to the attack on the natural and human-minded concept of families, and in relation to migration, which aims to weaken a kind of natural reaction of nations, they are trying to fight different fake news companies. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] They deny the reality of certain problems. And we can also see that Brussels bureaucracy is not working to protect, strengthen, provide financial support to families, because it is not the proposals that appear in the headlines of the news week after week, month after month, as Brussels proposals in the European Parliament or elsewhere, which would mean supporting families, but those that are about the smooth organisation of migration. To us, against these new inquisitors, who want to humiliate us in the same way, they want to withdraw the subsidies that are legally due to us, they want to say that we are not civilised politicians when we speak against migration, who want to silence the clear opinion of people around 80 percent in Hungary, and with various false news and other influencing tools and tripled support for Soros organisations that would promote migration in Hungary, we will not give in to the interests of the Hungarian people, we will not give in to the financial type of destruction in Central Europe, nor to the intellectual type of destruction. We will fight for Hungary and the Hungarian nation, even if it involves conflicts. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-28	Last in the line of speeches before the agenda, I give the floor to the leader of the group, Máté Kocsis, on behalf of Fidesz. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-04-01-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Many things have been said today, and I do not want to respond to them. I would like to highlight two things in total. On the one hand, the accusations and suspicions of the Socialist Party's puller Bertalan Tóth and Jobbik's representative about leaving the European Union will be dealt with in accordance with 1 April. It's a joke, and it's the worst kind. At the same time, it may have been overlooked by many, or we quickly missed it, or someone has not yet sat in the room when, yes, Ferenc Gyurcsány's speech was spoken. In the last part, in the last few seconds, a sentence that I literally recorded, I would draw your attention to. [[10.50]] With regard to the united states in Europe, he said: in the new Soviet Union, that Hungarian sovereignty [[Zsolt Gréczy: That's pretty funny from your mouth!]] We want to practice together with others. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] We want to exercise Hungarian sovereignty together with other countries. [[Zsolt Gréczy: This is happening right now! Gergely Harvesto: It's in the Constitution!]] This was said in the Hungarian Parliament that it wants to exercise Hungarian sovereignty together with others. [[Zsolt Gréczy: It is in your Fundamental Law!]] The question is, how would the young people of March feel about this, how would the, 56ths feel about it, but perhaps I could ask what the, 89ths would say. [[Zsolt Gréczy: It was their desire!]] I don't have to go any further than that, maybe I could finish my speech before the agenda... [[Gergely Harvester: He was in the Fidesz program, only then you were in MIÉP!]] Mr. Harvester! Mr. Speaker, I know you don't have animal control skills, but I'm asking you to do something... [[Gergely Arató: Don't judge the president.]]
u2019-04-01-30	Congressman, I understand your uproar. [[Zsolt Gréczy: That's how you talk to the president! Máté Kocsis: It is difficult to speak this way!]] But you also have to choose your words, on the one hand, and on the other, appreciate that I am tired of making arrangements for the speeches before today's agenda.
u2019-04-01-31	Excuse me. Shouting in Mr Harvester is so common that, in time, one learns to handle it. [[Gergely Harvesto: Good!]] Returning to our original topic: we want to practice Hungarian sovereignty together with others says Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Zsolt Gréczy: It is in the Fundamental Law!]] Well, I'll tell you that you insist on a European united states which are European united states or which, in the last two weeks, Brussels bureaucracy has brought to light a case concerning a certain Hasan F. This procedure, of which he is part, is Europe today; it is Europe today, which is why we want a change in Europe. [[Gergely Harvestó: That's why you want to leave Europe!]] What's the story? Mr. Harvester, 20 dead! Twenty dead! Before he raises his voice too much, Hasan F. has 20 lives on his soul. After the 20 dead, after the execution of these 20 people, as a man who did his job well, Hasan F. came to Europe, asked for asylum, then in Ferihegy, by the way, thanks to the Hungarian authorities [[Gergely Harvester: And the Belgians!]] He's been captured by CTU staff. And what did they find on him? What have you found, Mr. Arato? [[Gergely Harvestó: Settlement policy? Intercom from Jobbik's benches: Settle bond!]] What you don't think is true is a migrant card. They found a migrating card, and we're exactly the same with the migrant card as we've had with you in this debate for years. At first, they said that there was no immigration, that Fidesz invented it. Then it turned out there was. They denied the Soros plan, which is what your creator called it. Then they denied that there were quotas. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] Now we can see clearly how they are. Now they deny, not only you, but also the spokesperson of the Brussels Commission, that there are no migrant cards, but you can find them at Liszt Ferenc Airport with a terrorist leader. Don't tell us. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You let him in!]] that it is okay for you to enter Hungary with such migrant cards! Do not tell us that the European Union is doing the right thing then [[Attila Mesterházy intervenes.]] when you give anonymous credit cards to uncontrolled immigrants! [[Attila Mesterházy: That's not true!]] He said he was a spokesperson for the Brussels Commission. [[Szabolcs Szabó:...you poor bastard!]] That they know all the identities. There are two options: either he's not telling the truth, or they knew they were giving a credit card to a terrorist leader. Which will you choose, fellow Members? I would like to draw your attention to the fact that many of my fellow opposition Members have spoken today about the stakes of the elections to the European Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we think that the quota is inappropriate, that the migrant card is inappropriate, that the weekly resolution on the legalisation of immigration by European decision-makers is inappropriate. That is why we want a change, and we also think that our involvement in these matters in the European United States would be reduced, which is why we reject it. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, in relation to the terrorist captured in Hungary, immigration is now proven to be hand in hand with terrorism, and this must end, and that is what European citizens will decide in May. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-04-01-32	Mr. Csaba Dömötör will respond again. There you go. I'll give you the floor.
u2019-04-01-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the absence of a few days, the Fidesz-KDNP won the parliamentary elections a year ago, and the Hungarians then sent a clear message and gave a clear task to the governing parties. They expect the government to protect national culture and strengthen the country's security. Looking back over the last year, we can see that neither the opposition nor the Brussels bureaucrats are particularly interested in the declared will of the Hungarians, because they are on the same platform as ever since 2015. We see that choreography is the same: they deny the fact or significance of the migration crisis, and then they come up on conveyor belts with programmes that would strengthen immigration. The obvious effects of these are either denied to the public or relativized, so that they can slowly vote behind the scenes and start them. The Hungarian opposition parties, the situation, have been assisted to this end, without exception, by vote, declaration, stand, or even by misleading the Hungarians. We believe that the proposals and programmes to strengthen immigration will live and thrive without social support, because the Commissioner for Mandatory Immigration and even the Commissioner for Migration, who is responsible for the area, is also highly lobbying for it, and would also like to introduce the President of the European Parliament, so everyone can look at the declarations. [[Gergely Arató: Both of them are popular!]] Then there is the issue of migrant visas, which the European Parliament voted for, as the allies of the Members sitting here in Brussels and Strasbourg. I would also raise migration expenses in the next seven-year budget, but this does not, by chance, mean border protection, but border management, which is very different. As a general framework for all this, the UN has adopted a migration pact, which basically regards immigration as a fundamental right and puts national borders in parentheses. It is no coincidence that Hungary did not join this. The basis of these proposals and programmes is always the same: they want to legalise immigration rather than stop it; all of this is based on the belief that immigration is economically useful, or at least necessary. They're making this whole thing look like there's no other way. There is, Hungary also shows: protection of borders and strengthened support for families. Dear House, The recent Syrian terrorist and the credit card uploaded to him symbolizes more than anything else what is seriously wrong with Brussels policy. When the government first raised the issue of migrant cards, it was classified as fake news with a noble simplicity, and then reality and facts broke their way, we now know that only 60,000 people in January received such a card without having received the opinion of European citizens anywhere that they wanted to spend their money on it. Dear House, Should we leave without a word that immigrants, including terrorists, receive benefits that a Hungarian citizen cannot even hope for? Is that what we're supposed to let go of? ! We now know that the European Commission does not actually check who receives such a card, even if the money is given to it. He's defending himself by not being the operator. A few days ago, a resolution to this effect was published. So the consequence is that ruthless terrorists also receive such benefits, which really is absurd. This is only aggravated by the fact that the Brussels institutions know very well, because it is also included in a report adopted in the European Parliament that thousands of fighters from the Islamic State could return to Europe. These are not good prospects. Therefore, the Hungarian Government's position is that all programmes that encourage immigration and increase security risks must be terminated without delay. The steering wheel in Brussels must be turned forcefully, because the ship Europe is now moving towards self-destruction, and we do not want to look at it motionless. That is why we believe it is important for as many people as possible to take part in the European elections in May. Hungary and Europe can now choose a future for themselves, and this stake is too high to stay away. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-04-01-34	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Sándor Szabó to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2019-04-01-35	Dear Parliament, Today István Apáti, independent; Ander Balázs, Jobbik, applied for a speech after the agenda. On the day before the agenda tomorrow, the following representatives came forward: Lajos Korózs, MSZP; Zsolt Gréczy, DK; Tamás Mellár, Dialogue; Márta Demeter, LMP; Márton Gyöngyösi, Jobbik; László Szászfalvi, KDNP; Csaba Hende, Fidesz. Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Ander Balázs, Jobbik; Brenner Koloman, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; István Apáti, independent; Dóra Dúró, independent. [[11.00]]
u2019-04-01-36	Dear Parliament, Now it is time for the mandate certificate and its representatives to take an oath. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the National Election Committee has issued a parliamentary mandate to Csaba Gyure on the couple list of Jobbik Hungary due to the resignation of the MEP Loránt Hegedűs. The committee for the examination of mandates met before the meeting and examined the regularity of Mr Csaba Gyüre's credentials on the basis of electoral documents. Dear House, I now give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee on immunity, who will give the result of the examination of the mandate in accordance with the specific rules of the House 9. He shall report to the Parliament in accordance with paragraph 2 of Section 2. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a proposal amending the report on the outcome of the examination of mandates cannot be submitted. The mandate shall be certified by the Parliament without debate. Here you go.
u2019-04-01-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, With the resignation of Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, on the national list of the Jobbik Hungary Movement nominating organisation, a mandate has become vacant, as has been said. This mandate was issued to Dr. Csaba Gyüre by the National Election Committee on 25 March. This Decision shall be final. His credentials were received by the Member on 28 March. At today's meeting, the Audit Committee, with the unanimous decision of its members present, obviously reviewed the documents submitted. He also stated that there was no conflict of interest against Csaba Gyüre, and therefore the Committee on the Exemptions unanimously proposed to the Parliament that Csaba Gyüre's parliamentary representative justify his mandate. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-04-01-38	Thank you. So now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to confirm Csaba Gyüre's mandate. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the mandate of Csaba Gyüre was unanimously confirmed by 160 votes in favour. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] Dear House, Now it is the solemn oath of the elected representative and the signature of the oath papers. I ask Mr Csaba Gyüre to come to the centre of the Chamber and take his oath. I would ask Mr Sándor Szabó to read the text of the oath and this House to listen to it standing up as usual. [[The people in this room stand up. Dr. Csaba Gyüre steps into the middle of the room. Sándor Szabó reads the text of the oath.]]
u2019-04-01-39	I, Dr. Csaba Gyüre, accept that I will be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, keep its legislation and keep it with others; I will exercise my office as a Member of Parliament for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2019-04-01-40	I would ask Mr József Attila Móring to prepare the oath papers for signature, and the elected Congressman Csaba Gyure to sign them. [[It's happening. Attila Móring, who signed the oath document, congratulates Dr. Csaba Gyüre and gives a copy of the signed oath document. Dr. Csaba Gyure Máté Kocsis, Péter Harrach, Timea Szabó, László Lóránt Keresztes, Dr. Bertalan Tóth, Gergely Arató, Imre Ritter and Márton Gyöngyösi congratulated Csaba.]] Allow me to wish Congressman Csaba Gyüre effective work and good luck on behalf of Parliament and myself. Dear Parliament, I declare that the number of Members of Parliament is 199 again. Dear House, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. First, we decide on a proposal of exceptionality. The author initiated an exceptional procedure for the Parliament to discuss the 2011 CXX on the capital market. T/5565. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The Government has initiated the possibility of submitting amendments until the third hour after the decision on the exceptional procedure was taken, the consolidated debate will take place as the first item on tomorrow's sitting, as well as the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote on tomorrow's meeting. Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of more than half of the Members, that is to say, 100 Members. Now it's time for decision-making. I'm asking you if T/5565 is accepted. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the hearing in exceptional proceedings by 122 votes in favour, 41 against and without abstentions. Dear House, The amendment proposals can be submitted in accordance with the adopted decision at 2:6 p.m. today. We are now deciding on the amendments to the agenda. The Fidesz Group proposed that decisions be taken at the earliest 12.30 a.m. on the Tuesday meeting of the Parliament. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I find that the visible majority has accepted the proposal. We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on personal suggestions. S/5572 put forward by the President You can find out more about this on the website. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the content of the personal proposal put forward by the President.
u2019-04-01-41	1. 5/2018 on the establishment of committees, election of officials and members of the Parliament Section 2 of the parliamentary resolution is amended as follows: Parliament elects József Tóbias, MSZP, member of the committee, to replace Mr. Lóránt Hegedűs, independent and previously vacant dr. Csabat Gyüre, Jobbik; dr. Bertalan Tóth, MSZP, to replace József Tóbias, MSZP, in his former vacant place.2. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2019-04-01-42	Dear House, Now it's time for the decision. I'm asking the Parliament to accept S/5572. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the House has unanimously adopted the personal proposal by 162 votes in favour. Dear Parliament, Discussions are now taking place between Commission reports and the draft amendments. The Commission's report on amendments to the legislation necessary for the implementation of the family protection action plan will be discussed. The government referral is T/5132. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I will ask the author if he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2019-04-01-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Let's make the family protection operation a national matter. Europe is slowly committing suicide, because if we give up Christian culture and, at the same time, give up on helping European children to be born and support the founding of European young people, then this is practically the way to self-destruction, suicide. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] In Brussels, opposition parties voted in favour of almost all proposals that would provide common European support not for families but for migration. We Hungarians cannot stand by and watch this. Therefore, since 2010, we have been pursuing a family policy which, partly with legislation, partly with financial incentives, financial support, assistance, services and support for family-friendly thinking, seeks to achieve a demographic turnaround on the one hand and, on the other hand, to provide as much assistance as possible to those who are already raising children. [[11.10]] At the end of last year, the government launched the national consultation on the protection of families, in which we asked the people about what measures they would consider to be the most appropriate measures to support Hungarian families. Questionnaires were sent back by a large number of nearly 1.4 million people, and the proportion of those who agreed on each proposal was well above 90 percent. It can therefore be said that Hungarian people continue to be concerned with issues related to populationisation, family support, and support the government's efforts in this regard. With this substantial support, the Prime Minister held on 10 February 2019 [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] He also announced a seven-point family protection action plan in his evaluation speech. The adoption of the bill on the legislative amendments necessary for the implementation of the family protection action plan includes the two elements of the action plan, the baby shower support and the legal rules necessary for the introduction of the car promotion of large families on 1 July, as this House knows. Thus, the rules of the State guarantee for baby shower support are incorporated into the Family Support Act, as well as the Personal Income Tax Act, in order to avoid any obligation to pay a personal income tax on the use of baby shower support and car shopping aid for large family members. As you know, the detailed rules at the level of the related government decrees and government decisions have already been published in the Hungarian Gazette, which is necessary for the points of action which will enter into force on 1 July. So the launch of the action plan is going well. However, it is also necessary to adopt this bill in order to complete the process. The Hungarian family policy model has been around many parts of the world, although this was not our primary goal, but we have also achieved a leading role in family support at international level. There is a great deal of attention to Hungarian family policy, and we try to bring the good news of Hungary wherever possible. While in 2010 Hungary was the last country to have children, in full fertility rates, in the European Union, in the 28th, there was no country whose indicator would have been worse than its country, in recent years we have improved 12 places through measures, and today children's desire, fertility ratio is higher than in Austria, Slovakia, Finland, Poland, Croatia, Luxembourg, Portugal, Greece, Italy, Cyprus, Spain or Malta. The measures taken in recent years have helped us to have a more encouraging vision than these countries. As a result, in Hungary, children's desire has increased by 20 percent in recent years, rising to an unprecedented level in 20 years, and in all recent years there has been a country with a higher growth rate than in Hungary. On the other hand, in Norway, for example, the fertility rate has fallen to an unprecedented low level, according to the latest data. They are also mentioned in relation to the fact that liberal welfare democracy does not necessarily have to face demographic problems. In addition to them, the situation is similar in all countries with a total fertility rate above 2 recently. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, there is no single European country capable of either self-preservation, where there would be enough children to keep at least as many as there are, not to mention young people. It's important that it's not just the financials that matter. It's important, but just for the money, no one's going to have a child. The Government of Hungary also has a message that we should bravely stand up for family values, not let it discourage us, because it is not against something, but for something. We're not denying anything. We're taking a firm stand for something. This family, family values, family, childbearing is important for Hungarian people. So let this bill and the family plan be a national matter. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-44	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that he has a five-minute time frame for the closing. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Welfare Committee. Interventions by Members now take place within the time frame on which the agenda is to be held. There is no possibility of a two-minute speech during the debate. I ask my fellow Members if they wish to take this opportunity. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi, Fidesz Group.
u2019-04-01-45	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, not only Hungary, but Europe as a whole, is affected by population decline. Brussels and so far the Hungarian opposition replied that immigrants should be introduced. In Fidesz-KDNP, however, we are working to strengthen Hungarian families, help them to get their own home, and strive to give birth to the desired children. We introduced the family home-building discount in July 2015, the rules of which we try to expand and shape so that families with children can use it as many as possible. The published government regulations include four new measures that will enter into force on 1 July. Let's look at what they are: expansion of loans related to family home creation, the CSOK, further reduction of mortgage loans, baby shower support and car shopping support for large family members. From 1 July you can also apply for a loan of interest to be added to the CSOK, which will be HUF 10 million for two children and HUF 15 million for three children. For the purchase of used property, the threshold of HUF 35 million will be abolished. From July, the amount of CSOK for new apartments can be collected even in the case of new real estate based on the foundation of the old house. The CSOK loan can be pre-reimbursable and can also be claimed by single-parent families. As of July, the range of families with children eligible for mortgage credit reduction and the amount of aid will be further extended. As soon as the second child is born, 1 million HUF will be released and 4 million HUF will be released at the birth of the third child. Another important part of the family protection action plan is baby shower support, which can be requested from 1 July until 31 December 2022 in bank branches, up to HUF 10 million. Married couples may be entitled where the wife is between 18 and 40 years of age, and a member of the family has at least three years of insurance or student rights. Couples who claim this after 12 weeks of pregnancy after 1 July do not need to start paying. In this case, repayment will be suspended for three years, and if the second child is born during that period, no repayment will be required for another three years and 30% of the capital debt will be released. If the third child is born, then the entire debt will be released. An important help will be the car shopping program for large families, with which families with three or more children can apply for a HUF 2.5 million allowance from the Hungarian Treasury for the purchase of a new car with at least seven seats. One- and two-parent families may also claim children who are entitled to family allowances, and in the case of a third child, the 12 weeks of pregnancy is considered as entitlement. Ladies and gentlemen, Two weeks ago, Parliament discussed this bill in a general debate lasting more than seven hours. The proposal has also been supported by the Welfare Committee, and we hope that there is a chance that it will be supported here, even before the Parliament's plenum. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal before us is based on a national consultation, with its results in mind, and I therefore call on everyone to support it with their votes. Ladies and gentlemen, It is a long way from tearing up national consultation sheets to supporting the family protection action plan, and I hope that the first step on this path can now be taken by our opposition fellow Members. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[11.20]]
u2019-04-01-46	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group.
u2019-04-01-47	Mr President, Dear House, I am always pleased when we are able to discuss the most important Hungarian draft strategy, our catastrophic demographic situation, in the House, even if we are not too stylish, because the detailed debate is basically about a detailed and professional debate on a well-developed basic proposal, not on a five-page, not on a political one, but on a proposal for an amendment of a professional nature. When you start with the otherwise false information that the Hungarian opposition en bloc responded to your package with the support of immigration, I have to reject your words, because just think of an example taken from life: could you have sent the Hungarian Army alone to the fence, the physical border lock? You wouldn't have known, would you? There weren't two thirds of Fidesz. [[Interruption from the benches of the governing parties.]] With the help of Jobbik's votes, which is evidence, so this is not a favor on our part, but it is perfectly natural that in such a nation strategy situation, even if my fellow Member is pampering into it, please take this topic more seriously, in such a strategically important situation, it is perfectly natural that Jobbik supports this initiative, and the Hungarian Defence Office could go to the fence and serve its unheard of importance because the opposition Jobbik provided its votes for it. Only Fidesz couldn't have done that. So for the sake of historical fidelity, I would like to point out, because, by the way, the subject is different, that the immigration is not supported by Jobbik and is not carried out by Jobbik in Hungary. Neither did Jobbik carry out the residency bond program, but opposed it. The imports of foreign labour, recently imported by Ukraine, Tajikistan and other labour force, are organised by Fidesz with its legislative proposals and Jobbik opposes them. Congresswoman, this is the basic situation. And then we can get to what we're arguing about. I support Fidesz-KDNP's family support package and ideas, but forgive me for the adjective I used: it's a braked foam package. It is braked because it sends a positive message to millions, which I support, but for certain points it only accounts for one or two thousand or a few tens of thousands of users, because it is violently narrowing down the circle that could otherwise be extended. Let's look at this point by point. I think it is an excellent proposal for young married people to have children, especially if it is for home-building purposes. Otherwise, it's good for the fire that the Fidesz started. For example, with the abolition of housing support, the state leg of housing savings, Fidesz created a situation where many young Hungarians couldn't even slowly collect and collect the part they needed for the CSOK. This is the case that now with this free-to-use support, if they can use it if they pass through bank filters, if they appear to be creditworthy, because, let's say, they are not former foreign exchange-loans, who are KHR-listers, they can use this loan to make use of what was previously available with housing savings and state aid, and they should not, and should not, narrow it down to the lady's first marriage. In typical Hungarian situations, there is such a thing as a family getting together in the second marriage, and this must be supported, because unfortunately, in today's world, I wish that was not the typical life situation. I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to how we would not support the extension of the CSOK when we talked about a better proposal that we discussed dozens of times in this House. But again, in contrast to their cosmetic, braked-foam experiment, I will put a full proposal on the table, because CSOK should not only be extended at the level of the preferential loan to the properties used, but also at the level of the aid. Once again, the typical Hungarian life situation is that if there is no house savings, there is no normal savings, then the support should be extended to the property, not only the loan, because we do not want to trap the Hungarian families into a loan trap, but we want to provide them with the support they deserve through social transfers and other ways. But there are two more outrageous points in the CSOK that the Fidesz keeps in place. One of them is clearly that they want to give you CHOK without a limit, like 300 million forks. My proposal is not to have the CSOK's funding range above the value of 100 million real estate, but to get to the people in need, but I am open, Congresswoman, to discuss the ceiling, to see what the limit is with another II. district, mountain, several children, decent Hungarian family is not missing out on the opportunity. So let's look at, say, the capital district with the most expensive real estate prices, and set the upper limit there, but it's certainly not acceptable that many properties are oligarchs, successful businessmen with billions of dollars' worth of cash. In the same way, I would like to draw your attention to a third point: persons with status emigrated on the basis of the current bank announcements may still take up the CSOK. I insist that only Hungarian citizens can use this discount mass. If you have any objections, please stand up for one of you, for example, who has made your statement loudly into my words and explain to me why the family home-building discount is granted to immigrant statuses. On what basis do Hungarian taxpayers give their money to strangers? On what basis are they doing this? Now be brave, now press the button, now stand up, now tell me your position, not when the other one talks. And I also have to tell you that I also consider the reduction in credit debt to be cosmetic, with the sum of HUF 1 million, but I support it. I support it because it serves a good purpose. But we are talking here about families, my fellow Members, which have been looted by the commercial banks concerned by legal means, and they are asking for an unjustified debt. And what did the Government of Hungary do? He did not forint these so-called loans at the rate of the day of admission, but beat the Hungarian families at the market rate, thus crediting the amounts unduly taken with the banks. This is an amazing economic betrayal, and, if you look at it, my fellow Members, that over the last few more than three years there have been ten thousand evictions in Hungary, perhaps you will see that these families also have housing goals, children's goals. And if, in terms of hundreds of thousands of foreign exchange-crediters, they come to the conclusion that, let's say, there were only 10,000 children who wanted to come into the world and divide it into the years of their own government, it would come out that there would be a measurable increase in population indicators, fertility rates, the number of live births, everything else if these families had been given their life opportunities back. Compared to this, they received a market forintification, executive abuse, and now that the eviction moratorium has expired, and thousands more could be on the street. If you have genuine population goals, you need to catch them here, in the case of the most difficult social groups, to feel that there is a social safety net. It's a matter of personal income tax exemption. In the case of ladies, mothers and women with four children, I support it, but this was not the original proposal of Fidesz, and it was not about that. It was about looking back from mothers with three children, dear fellow Members, I am quoting their own statements, not my ideas, and, in the case of mothers with three children, a much wider social circle would be affected. If we look at the statistical data of how many mothers with four children appear in KSH's, say, 2016 already closed data, we find a figure that is close to 50 thousand below, and a small fraction of them is reported to be employed at all; even fewer people earn measurable amounts that would benefit from this tax exemption. On the other hand, if we look at the social group of three children, we will find a much more extensive group, and it could provide substantial, even impacting on the population processes, if the original pro-government proposal were to be brought in here, but somewhere in hand and hand, this proposal has become diluted, vanished, and, inexplicably, a narrow version of it has come before the House. Big family car shopping. A very important goal, I would add, is equally important for people with health problems, even for those who have any problems. But why is this aid only paid for the purchase of a new car? Why are they not satisfied with being available to a used car with adequate technical parameters? This is the typical Hungarian life situation. Hungarian families living in a normal situation are very rarely able to buy large, brand-new family cars worth more than 8 million. So again, they're narrowing down the range of users in a completely unjustified way. With regard to grandparents' children, also in a narrow circle, we can say that their proposal is not realistic, since in the case of a person facing a pension, the last years of work are the most important in terms of the calculation of pensions. Here the philanthropic solution would be for both parents to stay at work, and for the grandparents who are willing to take part in the care of the child to receive the theoretical lawn that one parent would have hired and to receive a pension. [[11.30]] In this way, they could give an extra to Hungarian families, which would be measurable in demographic processes. But these discounts are not extended to all Hungarian children. These discounts typically apply to Hungarian children born after 1 July, but to me, all Hungarian children's lives are equivalent. So my demand is to extend this package to everyone. On the other hand, it lacks legs such as a public-based rental scheme, such as the settlement of the situation of foreign exchange credit victims, which Jobbik presents to the House in separate proposals and has already submitted. We also expect a fair professional discussion of these. However, I would like to warn you that while there is still 27 percent VAT on basic foods in Hungary, despite a reduction or two, and while you have the highest tax rate on child rearing products in all Europe, it is very difficult for you to talk about the intention of a genuine demographic change. I do not dispute their intentions, but my request, or even my demand, in the name of the Hungarian future, is to support all of this with actions, without which there will be only words crying out in the wilderness. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-04-01-48	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2019-04-01-49	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Mr President, It was stated in the introduction that the general debate took place for nearly seven hours, and obviously the LMP also presented its position in detail. Therefore, I did not wish to comment at this stage of the debate, but I must respond to the speech by Mr Rétvári and Mrs Rétvári. When Mrs Secretary of State started presenting the proposal two weeks ago, she herself began speaking about a national issue and asked the opposition representatives to deal with this issue in this way and to put the political affiliation aside. I believe that, over the last few weeks, opposition representatives have proved that this is really how we have taken this issue. At the same time, the members of the government and the members of the government also used this proposal to make some kind of political, party-political gain out of it. In his speech, Mr Secretary of State spoke immediately about immigration, he accused the opposition of false accusations, and she also began with party political puffs. Where we have made it clear that we really consider the demographic situation that has emerged as a national tragedy, and we regard it as a national matter, so that we can take meaningful action. Accordingly, we have made it clear that LMP will support these proposals. At the same time, we have also said that we consider these proposals to be very limited, so we are making our own proposals. We will present a proposal for a decision in order to have a real impact on these measures. But I repeat, with our vote, we will support this proposal. My fellow Member, Mr Secretary of State, spoke about immigration. We regard this as a hypocrite in many ways, because it is clear to everyone that you have installed tens of thousands of immigrants in Hungary. On the other hand, I also had a personal dispute with Mr. Secretary of State. A few years ago, in 2015, the Hungarian government decided to set up a temporary reception centre next to Pécs in my settlement and did not build this camp to protest the people living there or the opposition. I add, Mr Secretary of State, that the certain government decree concerning the construction of the reception camp in Martonfa is still in force today. This is an interesting question, I asked Mr Pintér, Minister of the Interior, why this regulation is still in force. That is not what I really want to talk about, but the fact that you are not listening to the most important national tragedy on this issue, which is indeed determining this matter. You do not openly say that the emigration alone that has been observed, through which hundreds of thousands of people, nearly 600,000 have been forced to leave the country, has caused a national tragedy. Secretary of State, now, according to statistics, one in six Hungarian children in motherland are born abroad. This also underlines that if we are to achieve meaningful results in terms of demographic and demographic processes, we need comprehensive measures, measures the first step of which is a fundamental economic policy change, which stops that destructive economic policy or an alternative to the one that forced 600 thousand people to leave this country, Mr Secretary of State, out of necessity. And in agreement with my fellow Member who spoke before me, I would ask you to examine the proposals put forward by the opposition so far. Your proposals must be supported, taken in the right direction, but not taken. Our goal must not be less than that of family policy supporting all families, and we must be able to get to the point of having all the Hungarian children we want. Accordingly, a far broader, comprehensive proposal must be submitted compared to what you have submitted. That is why I ask you that, if the opposition has been able to deal with this as a truly national issue, it has been able to participate constructively in the debate and it can support your proposals, because this is in the interests of all of us, indeed a national matter, we ask you to examine in this way, constructively, the proposals of the opposition, including the LMP, and to support it with your vote. Thank you very much.
u2019-04-01-50	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, Democratic Coalition. Here you go.
u2019-04-01-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In view of the fact that, even in this extremely important and sublime case, what will happen to the future of Hungarian families, we managed to involve migrants, let me quote Viktor Orbán from 2001, let this be the motto of my speech today. Viktor Orbán: Hungary has to accept millions of immigrants in order to maintain Hungarian GDP. Viktor Orbán, 2001. [[Németh Szilárd István: That's not what he said!]] I think this is an effective and clear answer to who and when they wanted to bring millions of immigrants into Hungary. [[Németh Szilárd István: That's not what he said! You're lying, as usual.]] If you really meant family policy in Hungary, I would like to say that you have had nine years to do so. The child who was born when you came to power is now in the third grade of elementary school. For the time being, Hungarian families have found that the infant emergency department of the Honvéd Hospital is closing. [[Németh Szilárd István: It does not close!]] The Hungarian voters and all those who want a family see that you have built a stadium instead of a nursery and kindergarten. A thousand cradle places have been created in Hungary in the last nine years, and if I add the new stadium from the stadium, about 200,000. Compared to this, we are in Hungary today that what you offer to Hungarian families is largely a loan. Credit in a country where much of the Hungarian families are already in debt. What you're offering is a substitute for failing your own family policy. The Orbán government has failed with family policy. The shameful situation has emerged in Hungary today, that in the last hundred years, since Hungary's statistically calculated number of children born in Hungary, the three worst figures of the last hundred years have been produced by you in the last eight years. Congratulations on that. This is your family policy, which you obviously consider to be fundamentally successful. The credit they offer does not help the ordinary Hungarians and does not help the poorer. This is another loan for the wealthy, another credit facility for the wealthy. And you will also fall into the sin of distinguishing between a Hungarian child and a Hungarian child. This is obviously also not acceptable. We are also concerned that half of the young people surveyed in Hungary, who are about to graduate, say that they want to leave this country. This is also the result of your governance. Let us imagine the family policy where, let us say, the vast majority of young Hungarians or even tens of thousands will leave this country. These young people will be found abroad by love, by the founding of a family, by their wives or husbands, and their children may not even learn Hungarian anymore. This has also been the result of your family policy. You have had the opportunity to improve this situation in the last nine years, but you have not been able to do so. That is why the Democratic Coalition has decided to present an independent seven-point family protection programme to the Parliament, but of course, you have not even given us the opportunity to debate it here as a bill. If you were serious about family politics, for example, you would now abolish the slave law, the slave law that drives tens of thousands of Hungarian families into work on a weekdays, whether on a ten-hour or on a Saturday. But you said no to that. They should have eliminated the condition of evicting Hungarian families from their homes with young children. How should Hungarian families take on children if you are protecting banks instead of protecting Hungarian families and Hungarian children? You are also contributing to this, and it is also a shame, a disgrace, that these miserable families will be deprived of their children, separated from their children. If you were serious about family support, home care would be recognised as an employment relationship, but you are unable to do so. [[11.40]] In addition, how can a person take on more children if he lives in a country where there are no adequate health care where there are no more pediatricians? Aren't there enough doctors? Well, how can you have a baby? Do you think you're going to have a baby to see if there's one more seat in the car? Why don't you take a family to say that there will be a doctor who will give the child the vaccine? You're on the other side of the horse. You believe that having children is a matter of money. It's not a matter of money, it's an emotional issue, it's a matter of security. You have created a war country in the last nine years, from which people are fleeing, and in this war Hungarian children will not be born, and this is your sin and responsibility. You should have spent more money on education, health and family policy, but you didn't. They didn't do it the way they should. For you, building a stadium was more important than building a nursery and building a kindergarten. You have been burned by the failure of your own family policy, and there will never be an answer to that: what election results have been achieved by cheating. This does not mean that Hungarian children are born. All statistics show that at your time the population in Hungary is running out, more people are dying and fewer people are born. It's a crime of the Orbán government. DK will not vote in favour of this bill. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: You don't believe what you're lying about.]]
u2019-04-01-52	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman István Happy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-04-01-53	Dear House, We were all sent here to make decisions to ensure that the Hungarian nation would still be here in the Carpathian Basin a thousand years from now. In fact, not only to be here, but also to make the Carpathian Basin loud with Hungarian words, and the Hungarian nation should be the largest nation in the Carpathian Basin. Unfortunately, not all of my fellow Members feel that way. I am thinking of Mr Zsolt Gréczy, who, I see, would continue the policy of the Gyurcsány government, which was loud with austerity. Mr Gréczy, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you were the ones who abolished the Homemaking Act in 2002 after the elections. You were the ones who took away the three-year lawn; you were the ones who closed up kindergartens, nursery schools and schools. Never forget my first comment in this House when I said it, and I hold it to this day, it is possible to look back, that this is the case - the biggest school closing in Hungarian history was István Hiller, Minister of Education. This was under your government. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: These are facts.]] I think it's our duty for all of us to have all the laws about it. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Where is the Hungarian child?]] In order to ensure the Hungarian future, we must support it. Of course, the government parties have a greater responsibility in this regard, because the government is responsible for the budget, and the opposition is able to submit all kinds of fine legislative proposals when it is not covered. Only the government and the ruling parties can ensure that the funds are secured. It is no coincidence that we have asked for your support for these proposals. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát I am very sorry that he went out, as I am sorry that the MSZP and the Dialogue are not interested in this debate, because they are not here. So that's their attitude towards the Hungarian future, the Hungarian families, that they didn't even come to the debate. However, I would like to draw the attention of Mr Z. Kárpa and the Jobbikók to the fact that he has told us here how much they supported the Hungarian border lock, but the fact is that the amendment to the basic law, which was one of the most important ones, has not been voted by chance, has not been supported by chance. There was no one representative who wanted to stop the compulsory introduction of illegal immigrants into Hungary by amending the basic law. This is your historic crime. Another question is that the Jobbik who was sitting there is no longer sitting here, now even more liberal. And I would also like to draw the attention of the betterman and the LMP to the fact that your current ally, Zsolt Gréczy and DK, say something quite different from you. And if you're allies, it's weird that you support something and they don't support it. Then how are they allies? The thing is, you have now seen the opportunity to get a little closer to the electorate as the elections approach, so you are now in favour of a popular law. That's very good, and I support that. But I would like to say to you that the Hungarian families must also be supported by you when it comes to combating illegal immigration. Because illegal immigration is bad for Hungarian families, and it could have been done in addition to Hungarian families. I would ask my fellow Members that all groups, including Zsolt Gréczy, should support this law. Because the fact is that without their support, we will achieve that law, and without your support, we will achieve that there will be no united states in Europe, because the Hungarian people do not want united states in Europe, although that is what you want, and with the support of the Hungarian people we will achieve that many Hungarian children will be born. There is a high demand for this law in the countryside. Many people in my district are looking forward to taking these measures, such as the village CSOK, which allows them to buy apartments. The further expansion of the family support system is important for the countryside, and with the help of the countryside Hungary will develop again, more Hungarian children will be born in Hungary, and in a thousand years the Hungarian nation will still be the largest nation in the Carpathian Basin, even if you do not want it, and in a thousand years the Carpathian Basin will be loud with Hungarian words. That is why I ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-04-01-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Miklós Soltész, representative of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-04-01-55	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It is really touching when people on the left usually talk about family, especially when they are concerned about families and attacking the measures that have been going on for eight years, they want to question them and they can't really accept the introduction of new ones. All this is done by those whose family policy was, if I may say so, limited to one thing: to ensure the everyday well-being of Mrs Gyurcsány and Mrs Gyurcsány. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Much more children were born.]] Congressman! I would like to read the sins of DK's representative Zsolt Gréczy and, of course, of the whole left, to tell you what you have done during your administration, how you have ruined the family policy that has finally started up until 2002 and certainly provided families with a predictable future. You did the following between 2002 and 2010. Can I have your attention, please, because amnesia is a terrible thing, but it's nice to recall a little bit what happened during your administration. You're the ones who broke up the home support. I note that in parentheses, before it was completely abolished, the left-wing socialist and SZDSZ representatives sat here, who quickly took on the last opportunity, and then drove the Hungarian people into the foreign exchange credit scheme, which resulted in the difficulties, misery and destruction of hundreds of thousands of people. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You introduced him. Dr. János Fónagy: There is a different possibility and a different strain.]] It was you who almost completely abolished the family tax reduction. By the way, the people you're talking about have been taken away completely from the one and two children, and the same thing you're talking about has been taken away from the poorest families. We're the ones who brought back the family tax relief, which, by the way, we give the poorest people...
u2019-04-01-56	Gréczy... Excuse me, Mr. Secretary. Excuse me, I don't want to interrupt. Congressman Gréczy! I don't remember Mr. Secretary, when you spoke, you would have said a sentence. Please, please, just keep this to yourself. Thank you. Be nice.
u2019-04-01-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It was you who introduced a complete or partial reduction of the kid and the child, which had a very serious consequence. It was you who closed the schools in the small settlements. This is a message to the poorest and most difficult families that there is no point in having children because you will not have a school. On the other hand, honourable Member, if you had paid a little attention to this bill for the last 8 years, you would have seen that we have restored and even extended the family tax relief compared to the previous one. Cradle, kindergartens, schools were renovated and rebuilt. You may not be disturbed by the numbers: the number of marriages has increased by 50 percent. You may not mind, but divorces have decreased by more than 20 percent. You may not mind that the childbearing rate has risen from 1,25 to 1.5. [[11.50]] I know you don't care that the number of abortions has decreased by 25 percent, because the left doesn't understand that. I disagree: that you want to cooperate with this company, Jobbik paraleel, with this company, who do and do things against families in the past, and that is what they are saying now, the Jobbik arm is doing its policy in arm. I can only conclude that your current family policy is nothing more than a pro-Migratory family policy to bring as many foreign populations into Hungary as possible. [[Zsolt Gréczy: said Viktor Orbán in 2001!]] and thereby watering down the current situation in Hungary today. This is your common left and right-wing family policy. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, I'd like you to look into the facts, please. Please take a look at the fact that international organisations, even those on the left, sometimes admit that Hungary's family policy is outstanding, not only in the region, but throughout Europe. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Where is the Hungarian child? Why isn't a Hungarian child born?]] If they could ever understand these things, if they could just admit it, they wouldn't just be in the polls, they would be in reality where they are now. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zsolt Gréczy: Where is the Hungarian child, Mr Soltész? Why isn't a Hungarian child born? They failed!]]
u2019-04-01-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman, I do not want to argue with you, there are some who would like to speak. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2019-04-01-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I am very pleased that we have two minutes left, and I regret that I do not have to say anything on the subject, but that I would like to respond to Mr István Happy. I do not want to respond to what you have said about various opposition parties, I think it is pathetic, so the fact that you are dealing with opposition parties on a subject like this shows a lot of things about your true national commitment. Congressman, you said that they were fighting for the Carpathian Basin to be loud in a thousand years' time. I completely agree with that, it's a matter of fate, that's what we're all working for. Congressman, since 2010, nearly 600,000 people have been forced to leave this country. Thousands of families were torn apart. And the fact that these people didn't go to work and then come home confirms that one in six Hungarian children from motherland are born abroad, so there are already many children abroad. I would like to ask my fellow Member: who can say that this is a national tragedy? Or do you agree with your pro-government fellow Members who say that there is nothing wrong with that, but that the common labour market is working? Or are you satisfied with the fact that there are countries from which more have migrated? I would like to ask you to tell all Hungarian people. I am Pécs, 13 thousand people left Pécs in ten years, and I would add that they did not go to study languages; they left because they did not get a job because of a fundamentally flawed economic policy. This is what I would like to ask of you, my fellow Member, you have plenty of time: who can say that it is a national tragedy that this government has caused you to drive away 600 thousand people from this country with your economic policy? Thank you.
u2019-04-01-60	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Márius Révész of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-04-01-61	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to suggest to my fellow Member, Mr Gréczy, that we should speak with a little more modesty after their governance. The fact is that it is worth examining the data: in 2010 we reached our demographic low, according to fertility, because the fertility rate in Hungary decreased to 1.29, which was never as low as it was then. I have to say that, until about the 2000s, the fertility rate was similar to that of the neighbouring countries, but at that time the Gyurcsány government came and started a very serious amok run, and this decline kept showing up year after year. Of course, it is possible to compare, as Congressman Gréczy does, the birth number at that time with the birth numbers of today, but a small fact avoids the attention of Mr Gréczy and my opposition colleagues: today, unfortunately, there are hundreds of thousands less mothers than there are at the time of their government. Year after year, the number of mothers of childbearing age is reduced by 30-40-50 thousand, and the fact is that... [[Zsolt Gréczy: And they are going abroad!]] [[Zsolt Gréczy: And they are going abroad!]] Excuse me? (Zsolt Gréczy: And they are going abroad!) Every year, the age is reduced by this, and the Member knows that, so the result is, of course, that we can keep the birth rate that was the year before, if the number of children per parent or per mother increases. Unfortunately, this increase is certainly not enough, it could be larger, but the fact that it has increased above 1.5 and now it has decreased somewhat in the last period shows that we have started in a positive direction, but it is clear that this is not enough, and we would like to go on this path now. Congressman Gréczy also shouted here that we had made the foreign currency loan possible. The congressman was right about that. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Finally!]] But when we were in the government, people didn't take on a large share of foreign currency loans. And you know why? [[Zsolt Gréczy: Because you just failed a year later!]] Because there was a preferential loan on the market for families with children, and instead of a foreign exchange loan, people took on the preferential loan [[Zsolt Gréczy: You failed a year later, that's why you weren't hired!]] that our government provided, but when you came to the government, you did that magic trick that the preferential loan facility was abolished. [[Peter Cseresnyés: That's right!]] because the economy was virtually fragmented, so the central bank's core interest rate was raised to the sky, and everyone who wanted to get a place to live got one chance, and they took on the foreign currency loan that you've driven the people into. [[A statement from the ruling parties: That's right! Zsolt Gréczy: What you did!]] What you encouraged him to do. And here's the thing. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] "You can swing, but what I've just said is factually true. The central bank's core interest rate was raised above 10 per cent, the preferential lending option was abolished; the families had only one option to obtain housing, and this was the only way they had to take on the foreign exchange loan (Zsolt Gréczy intervened). And in practice, when the 2008 crisis hit, a lot of families couldn't take on later children because they basically found themselves trapped in a debt trap they couldn't break out of. This is the situation in which we took over governance in 2010, and the first period, the first two or three years, took us to try to correct this amok run and try to correct the situation of foreign exchange lenders. We did it the way we did it. This has cost both the budget and the Hungarian banks an enormous amount of money, and let us be honest that this is the result of your irresponsible economic policy. I would even like to respond to the Member of the LMP, Mr President. In some ways, it is undisputed that so many people are leaving Hungary to work, but it must also be added, Mr President, that this is the result of the open labour market. It is worth looking at the various statistics, however, that this is the result of the Hungarian government or the very significant wage differences, and indeed, if we look at the statistics from Poland to Serbia, from Romania to the Baltic countries, we should say that Hungary is still quite good compared to these countries. But the truth is that we hope, and our economic policy and family policy are all about the fact that a significant part of these people, these children, young people and families will come back to Hungary, and they will come back because the situation of the Hungarian economy is slowly becoming more and more perspective, and the standard of living will increase. If we really achieve the government's goal of making Hungary one of the best countries in Europe by the 2030s, we can offer people the highest standard of living, then, I think, this return flow will accelerate and more and more people will come back every year. And in order to achieve this, I think that the family policy package that we have just presented to Parliament is a very important and decisive step. I also have acquaintances who have asked me when this package will be accepted, they are living abroad at the moment, but they will also consider this package to return to Hungary, because they feel that those who are having children in Hungary are behind them at the full breast width of the government. So I ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[12.00]]
u2019-04-01-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group.
u2019-04-01-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Congressman Gréczy, the Parliamentary Protocol can bear many things, but this is not the People's Freedom, so that you can lie whatever you want here in the ears of the Hungarian electorate. [[Zsolt Gréczy: No, the Hungarian Times!]] The thing is, Congressman, I understand that you are in a tight spot because you work for a family business where Ferenc Gyurcsány and Ferenc Gyurcsány run this family business. [[Zsolt Gréczy: No Anikó Lévai, Ráhel Orbán, István Tiborcz.]] And you're forced to accept this arrangement. I regret that you did not become the leader of the European Parliament's list, for example, but you have been pushed down your throat to support the wife of Ferenc Gyurcsány. You gave the party orders to include Ferenc Gyurcsány's wife on the Facebook page of all their politicians, and published that all their politicians talk about her. Obviously, this is an unpleasant situation for you, your frustration here in Parliament, your lies, your misrepresentation of the government's family policy. Let us look at the state of the economy that, today, has gathered itself before 2010, allows us to introduce such measures. Let's look at the unemployment rate in your time. You've made a million people unemployed. [[Zsolt Gréczy: After that, 600,000 people left!]] You've taken a month's wages from people, you've stopped the home creation programs, you've abolished the family tax system, and you've started with the one-and two-year-olds. [[Zsolt Gréczy: House Savings!]] You've always squeezed me, and your austerity targets have always been families with children. Ferenc Gyurcsány and Ferenc Gyurcsány jointly want to implement the European united states. How good do you think this will be for Hungarian families? When Hungary spends the most on family support in the European Union in proportion to GDP, we would be expected to reduce these family support in a European United States, to eliminate family support and not to be top riders in the European Union, but to fit into the average and accept immigrants, and rather to spend these funds on them. That's your plan. Obviously, we saw what they were doing before 2010 and where this result led. I would just like to say to the representatives of the LMP that you campaigned to abolish the family home-building discount and that your election programme included a 24 percent personal income tax rate. Obviously, this also points in the direction that if we let the right to tax determination out of our hands and it was a central tax determination in Brussels, Hungarian families should also expect such higher tax rates. [[Zsolt Gréczy: If it weren't for 27 percent VAT!]] I am glad that this package is now being supported by the LMP; the elections are obviously coming, and they do not want to miss out on the success of the family protection action plan. This is to be appreciated, it is right to vote in favour of this, but let us look at what they have campaigned about before, whether with the abolition of the CSOK or with higher tax rates. I think it is important that the Members vote in favour of Hungarian families today. Today you can decide whether you want to vote in favour of Hungarian families or against Hungarian families; I think this will be revealed this afternoon. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman Loran the Crusade has 30 seconds. Here you go.
u2019-04-01-65	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm trying to fit in. I would like to appreciate the speech by Mr Révész Máriusz: a pro-government Member who acknowledged that the low wages forced 600,000 people to leave the country. This honesty must be borne in mind, and I do not believe that there has been an example of this in the House of Parliament. I would also like to respond to Congressman Nacsa's campaign. Hungarian government members campaigned when they encouraged investment that Hungarian labour force is very cheap and the potential for protection of employees' interests is extremely low. They were trying to encourage investment, so they were working for vulnerable, cheap wages. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Not with the well-trained Hungarian workforce, and this is proof that the slave law was recently voted in favour, fellow Members.
u2019-04-01-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi, Fidesz Group.
u2019-04-01-67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to the comments of our fellow opposition Members. First of all, my colleague Zsolt Gréczy, I think you have confused your economic policy with Fidesz's economic policy, with Fidesz-KDNP's economic policy. From the outset, we say that instead of immigration, migration, illegal immigration, we should focus on the Hungarian economy [[Zsolt Gréczy: This is what Viktor Orbán said, not me.]] and with the support of Hungarian families. Viktor Orbán formed a government for the second time in 2012, and since 2012... [[Intercoms: 2010.]] From 2010 onwards, it continuously strengthens the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian families. I remember that after 2010, when the situation was very tough, because we were a peasant chase from having a budgetary disaster, for example, there were laws here before Parliament that taxed banks, taxed the multinationals, and you did not vote for it at the time, even though what a good effect it had, and then, I remember, several countries in Europe took over these laws. Then came the bill that introduced the family tax relief. For example, families who were not fully able to benefit from tax relief, apply tax incentives for children to benefit from taxes, and then introduced them to be credited with contributions. I recall that you did not support this, you did not vote in favour of these proposals. Then I could continue with the CSOK, continue with the budgets that made it possible for different wage increases, which you did not support. In short, there we are now, last year there was a 4.9 percent increase in GDP in Hungary, and this year is also expected to increase by 4 percent. In fact, on the basis of the Minister of Economy's announcement, we now know that this year it will be a double-digit increase, a wage increase. These all prove that the Government of Viktor Orbán and its governments are pursuing an economic policy and a family protection policy that you do not support, which is thinking about making it a good place to live, be able to thrive here, make sense to have children. Allow me, because there has been a debate here about how many people leave Hungary, not arguing that we still have a lot of work to do in the area of Hungarians trying to get along at home, of course, I didn't include going after graduation, for example, to gain foreign experience by young workers, so, in return, there is much more to do to keep the Hungarians here and not try to get along abroad. Moreover, this is also supported by the increase in wages, the fact that Hungarian families are returning from Western Europe more and more often, because they believe that there is a way to manage it at home, and they are home, their parents live here, friends are here, and return home. So, according to a survey by the United Nations, this is a UN survey, so if we look at the size of the population that was born in a given country but currently lives abroad, we can get a good picture of the emigration situation. According to the UN, Hungary has the lowest share of people living abroad in Central Europe, says the UN. The proportion of people living abroad in neighbouring Romania is three times higher than in Hungary. In Lithuania, too, there is a fairly high emigration rate, as nearly five people born in the country are abroad and the UN survey could be analysed for a long time. [[Zsolt Gréczy constantly intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear fellow Members of the Opponents, Dear Zsolt Gréczy By the way, we weren't Fidesz or KDNP, who said we could go abroad. Ferenc Gyurcsány... My dear fellow Member Zsolt Gréczy, your leader, Ferenc Gyurcsány, who writes the sheet music to you, said that. Believe me, it didn't have a good effect on the people of Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Zsolt Gréczy: 600 thousand Hungarians have been gone for the last eight years, you did this! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-68	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Gréczy, you have no opportunity to have a separate debate. You can do this elsewhere, in the Chamber your time frame has expired. I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group.
u2019-04-01-69	Thank you very much. Mr President, I did not originally plan to comment, but listening to most of the debate here, there may be an opportunity to get some answers from the Fidesz MEPs, the members of the government. I am one of the Members who think it is right for the government to address demographic issues. This issue has been a problem in Hungary since 1980, and I think it is a good direction if a government, a parliament, starts to deal with these serious issues. [[12.10]] I think that my fellow Member Gréczy is right, a lot of people have left the country, and let us now put aside for a moment the reason why these people did so. I think there are many reasons for that, I am sure, and I think that there is serious truth in this; but this situation also makes the situation of families in Hungary difficult, making it difficult for the economy, society and many others in Hungary. So the debate on demographic issues in this House is, I think, a good debate, a sensible, useful debate, that is my first statement. The second is that if this question is so important to you: it is so important to us, too, but with you, I see that it is a permanent indicator, it can only be important to you, then let me ask you, if this is such a national issue, which we all share in this Chamber, that this is a national issue, then why cannot we seek a national consensus on this issue. Why can't a majority once in Parliament say on a subject that we should listen to opposition proposals, start by saying that the opposition Member wants to do good for his own people, wants to improve this demographic situation, and therefore tries to add something to your proposal. I was listening to it, or at least in the newspaper I read that in a debate, Secretary of State Novák said that, of course, you can vote for ours, but we do not care what suggestions you have, and we will push this question through without it. And understand that when sentences are spoken out of the mouth of an important secretary of state, the Vice President of Fidesz, then of course the opposition is also thinking about what purpose this proposal really serves; whether the genuine concern you are talking about is really true, that you are only interested in families. Or there may be party political campaign interests behind what you have been talking about here, in this debate. Slowly the debate loses its true content and professional character, rather it slips into such a party political debate, where the different tribes occupy a position, and then no one from that trenches wants to look out for it, because in any case, it is doing something that it has never done before. I think that question is exactly where party political battles should be put aside. I've listened to Jobbik here, I've listened to LMP, DK, everyone has, and we have proposals that I think could make this idea more effective, better, what you have here. I personally thought of three things in the debate that were probably proposed by several people. There are many families in Hungary, for example, who do not have a marriage certificate, because for some reason they did not think it was important that they now connect their lives in such a legal way, but live in a partnership. I may not have an exact number, forgive me, I'm not an expert on this statistics, but they say 40-42 percent that there are about that many families living in a partnership today, not in a marriage relationship. I think they should be covered by a lot of proposals. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Objection!]] I understand, I would just like to say that today the family in Hungary means not only being married, but also living in a partnership. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The Fundamental Law is the same.]] Two: There are children of their own educators [[Interventions from the ranks of the governing parties]] I get it, but that includes this family model. Or even orphaned children, who are also in a situation of their own. If it is difficult to start, it must be difficult for an orphan child to start out in his life, and other proposals that I think make it better, make these proposals more useful and more effective. Therefore, I really wanted to contribute to the part of the debate that, if this is the issue of national fate so important, why cannot the Fidesz majority cross this tribal line. Why can't you say that you are symbolically accepting proposals other than the opposition? Or present this proposal together, if possible, because I also think that we would like to say that we really need to plan ahead here not for 4 years, not for 8 but for 10-20, because according to the demographers, the solution to this problem can only be envisaged in the very long term. The various statistics also show that Hungary has a very long way to go in this, so that it can manage these issues relating to the birth of children successfully. Not to mention, at the other end of this demographic issue, how many people die in Hungary, because the health system should also be dealt with. After all, whether the Hungarian population is losing weight or not depends on the children born, and it also depends on the length of life when, after what lifetime, who dies, not to mention the quality of life. So probably, if we were to talk about a complex program, we would certainly also have to deal with how, how, and how long you can live your life. So I would just like to know if you could give me advice or answer on why you can't handle this issue a little more generously, and I may have made proposals that are already included in this proposal, then I apologize, but in such a way that I think it is important that the opposition wants nothing to do with it. They are guided by the same good intentions as you, if any. But since they do not accept anything, it is true that I believe that opposition criticism is also justified that you have a different purpose and that this package of proposals serves more campaign purposes than the sincere suggestion that you have been trying to discuss here in the past. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-04-01-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Miklós Soltész, representative of KDNP. Here you go.
u2019-04-01-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank God, I see Zsolt Gréczy calmed down and left the room. I would like to point out to Mr Attila Mesterházy that, on the one hand, what you have said, the desire for consensus and all the like, these are very nice words and good things, we need this, and to see the consensus within us, to a large extent, what you have asked for and suggested, we have already put it in the law in advance. It's just worth reading before you speak, what it's all about. So most of it's in there. However, let me add to you that this law was preceded by a consultation that you here in Parliament may not be your fellow faction, but it may even be your fellow faction here, torn to pieces, ripped to pieces, thrown in; now I remember that the woman who beat herself up in the television booth might have done all this. [[Defiance from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And he said it didn't make sense. Compared to this, nearly a million and a half people have sent the consultation back, and the proposals that we have now adopted by consensus, if we are allowed to use his word, so you have read all of this, and we will vote within a few hours. But it is very difficult to reach a consensus in the past, because there was a good family policy that everyone supported and accepted, and then you started by saying that, first, the family tax relief was almost completely abolished, and that was a message to society, especially the poorer ones, to settle for aid, because that is a much better solution. How much crime have you committed? Now about the huge unemployment that was under your government, not to mention that. They've eliminated the support for home creation, and we've indicated that it's going to be a big problem. What's going on? They drove people into foreign currency loans, ruined hundreds of thousands of people's lives. It is therefore very difficult to reach consensus when we speak. We say that family policy should be predictable for families for the long term, 10-15-20 years, because that is when they dare to take on and raise children. You guys yanked the kid, pulled the kid, pulled it all the way down. What was the message for the families? They can't count on the government, the left-wing government, to raise children. So, honourable Member, everything you have said is fine, it is all good and good, but this is a pink balloon on the left, when it is said to be a consensus, but from the other side: (1) you do not know what is in the bill; (2) when you are on the government, you do a completely different thing; (3) when you are in opposition, you follow a completely different policy, and that is to fill this country with migration instead of family policy. Thank you very much, we do not ask for this consensus. We can vote for this law ourselves, and the people, the electorate, will decide that this is the right solution, or what is, by the way, dictated to you by Brussels rather than Moscow. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-04-01-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Sigismund, Fidesz Group. [[12.20]]
u2019-04-01-73	Thank you very much, Mr President, very briefly; after the seven and a half hours of general debate, a new element has not come up very much in this debate either. Mr Mesterházy is now pretending to seek consensus, but indeed, his fellow Member has ripped apart the national consultation spectacularly here. It was the forum where the government asked for the citizens' opinion, but it could also have made meaningful contributions to the Government's proposal in the seven-and-a-half-hour debate. You don't wonder about DK's attitude anymore. They've come up with a 7+1-point wrench, but this isn't a real program, because it's about something else. In line with the traditions, DK once again confronted Hungarians, not looking for a solution, but wanting to highlight a detail, exaggerating it, embarrassing it, and trying to make it ridiculous in the eyes of society, but we are used to this from DK not being able to come forward with a substantive proposal for the benefit of Hungarian families. As far as emigration is concerned, Mr Crusade, it is spectacularly about 600,000 people, or I don't know what crowd it is about. If we look at it in comparison, the least people left Hungary to work, as my fellow Member has also brought statistics. It can therefore be concluded that many more people from the surrounding countries have gone to work in Western Europe. In recent years, average pay has risen spectacularly, and more people can work than they did ten years ago. This is definitely an important circumstance. If you look at the family support system, it can also provide added value. If we add up the rent, add up the education, the meal, the elements of the family support system, then for a family life can provide much better conditions at home. Today, you can find work, and the family support system allows young families with children to start their lives here, in Hungary, on equal terms, as in Western Europe, where the prices of services are expensive, housing is very expensive, health care is payable, education is payable. If we put this together, the package also has a very significant impact on the fact that it allows young families to return. The most important thing in the whole debate is not financial support, because it is possible to measure who gives how much, the Orbán government, if we look at the fourth government in its process, has always given more, and now the family support is enriched with a new, spectacular element. But most importantly, we talk about family, family comes back into fashion, having children comes into fashion, and it's finally good to be a family, it's good to be a big family. Thank you very much. I ask for your support for the legislation. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-04-01-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2019-04-01-75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At least I was able to generate some kind of argument in this. Look, the national consultation is a manipulation, so I think it was right of my fellow Member to rip it apart, because they are actually throwing away taxpayers' forints for this. The other thing is that, yes, there is indeed a difference between our approach, our family policy approach, our left-wing approach and yours, namely: we want to help all Hungarian families, and you often have many suggestions only for the privileged few, or even for your own family, which is certainly understandable for you. The third issue is migration. This is what we now hear many times in this Parliament, that this is the magic word in the campaign, and I understand that the opposition is a migrant party. We always refuse, no one wants any illegal migration. No one would be pleased if we solved demographic problems through migration. It would be best, of course, if Hungarian families could solve this. I don't think there's any debate in this at all. I ask that this lie, although I know it has been called into the wilderness, be taken off the agenda, because in this sense the opposition is accused of not having any truth in it. It is also a strange thing that the 2008-10 period is always compared to the current period, since it was then a global economic crisis and now there is a economic activity. In this sense, it is difficult to compare the situation at that time, whether in terms of job creation or others, but if you know that they agree so much that it was bad then, and now you understand everything, why, for example, evictions in families with small children are not suspended immediately, since foreign currency lending has already been mentioned. Then why don't you do that if you have children, you can't evict them in Hungary? Then this would be a very clear signal, I think, for everyone, if any; and it would also be to cancel the agreements and the government agreement with the EBRD, which guarantees the banks a profit. This means, however, that instead of Hungarian families, you have sided with the banks on this issue. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you for your attention, Mr. President.
u2019-04-01-76	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Márius Révész, Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2019-04-01-77	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I certainly agree with Attila Mesterházy on one thing: family policy in a country is good, if it is predictable in the long term, thus providing sufficient security for families. Unfortunately, this has not been maintained in recent decades. The truth is that Attila Mesterházy says that the opposition does not want to harm families, and we should believe that, it is only the case, Congressman, that we have experience. His sentence was also very important, that since 1980 there have been population problems in Hungary, and we have to look at what happened during this period when they were on the government. It began with the Horn government introducing very serious restrictions, one of the biggest losers of which was families. The fertility rate was first crooked during the Horn government, then it went significantly, say, under Czech, Polish and other data. Then, when we lost the election in 2002, and you came back to government, you didn't learn from it, you took back family subsidies in the first place; while you said that there had been population problems since 1980, your government ignored this. You said that it was an economic crisis: I'm just saying that in 2006, two years before the economic crisis, a 9.3 percent budget deficit was created, 9.3. This was done by virtually nothing for families, taking everything away from families, while there was such a huge budget deficit. Once again, we were two years before the election. Indeed, Congressman, there is a very significant difference in our family policy. We have said that we want to primarily support families who want to raise their children from work. For a very long time, it has been said that some of the families are excluded from the subsidies, but if you look at the statistics now, practically everyone can work in Hungary today, and everyone who works, even if they are public workers, has, by the way, increased their family support many times over the period before 2010. If you look at the statistics, there are different statistics on poverty indicators. For example, the serious financial depriviation rate is 56 percent lower than in 2010, much fewer people live in poverty, and poverty has fallen to the greatest extent for families with multiple children, Member. So I think that the statement that you are constantly chanting here is that our family policy is good for the minority of society, and that is simply not true according to Eurostat data. The family support system that we operate is good for the overwhelming majority of families, including the poorest families, as there has been a very large reduction in the poverty rate for families with multiple children. I think, Mr Congressman, if we go on this path, this law will be passed by Parliament, then this situation will improve even further. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-04-01-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Miklós Soltész, Secretary of State, on behalf of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman, Secretary of State.
u2019-04-01-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Thank you very much to the authors, and also to those who have been involved in this huge work that has allowed us to present this bill, and in a few weeks, within months, families can now see its results. There were many family organizations, there were a lot of demographers, there were a lot of civil society organisations that really work for the country, they really want to do for the country, not serve foreign and mainly Brussels interests. Therefore, this decision, which the government has just brought to Parliament, will, of course, be supported by Fidesz and KDNP. On the other hand, it is decided who, on the part of the opposition, feel the situation of Hungarian families, who consider it necessary and important to support this bill, or who pursue the same left-wing policy that the socialists, the LMP and the others do during their governance. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-04-01-80	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members if they still wish to speak on the remaining time frame. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State. [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State indicates that he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. I would like to remind the Secretary of State that he has a five-minute timeframe. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[12.30]]
u2019-04-01-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I think it is worth pointing out here in the closing words that the Dialogue, the party of Gergely Christmas in the entire debate, has been talking about zero minutes zero seconds in the previous debates and here in Parliament. The family protection action plan, perhaps one of the most important parliamentary legislative tasks of this year, has not reached the threshold for dialogue, it will certainly coordinate with the MSZP on the lists of EPs, and this will keep all their energy busy. It was not important for Gergely Christmas and his party to take part in this debate for a second, and they were completely absent from it all along. Many opposition representatives have raised the desire to improve the proposal before Parliament with such proposals. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, This proposal is a text in line with the directions set out in the national consultation, 1.4 million people have defined the direction of this current bill, and you are at the last minute, ignoring the decision of the people, making various proposals. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps the national consultation sheets should not have been torn apart, but should have been dealt with in substance on this issue, and not only when it turned out that there was a high level of support for this. I think that the most important thing for all democratically-thinking Members is to observe and implement what people give us even in a consultation, not to rewrite and modify. I think that many have smiled at the opposition's suggestion that it would be a reversal of economic trends that would encourage families to increase their wages by more than 10 per cent on average over a year; when the rate of GDP rises is somewhere between 4 and 5 per cent, which is much higher than the EU average, or much higher than a few tenth percent German growth. I think no one wants this to turn around, and the Hungarian people, the Hungarian families, are starting to become poor. It was also strange when they said that there should be a national case, and then they started playing stadiums on this issue. You say it's good for the wealthy, that's what they say a lot about Fidesz-KDNP's family policy. Most of these benefits can be used if one parent has an employment relationship. Do you think it's well-off if one of the parents has a working relationship? Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, we are striving not only to encourage childbearing but also to raise the child and to support raising the child. That's why it's important, and that's what people said, over 90 percent, to raise the part of family support that's tied to employment. Anyone who has tabled a counter-proposal, and there is such an opposition proposal, is facing the will of more than 90 percent of the people. Would it only be a suggestion for you to help the wealthy if a mother of four did not pay personal income tax for the rest of her life? Do you think that the laws adopted so far, which have already been adopted, only benefit the wealthy, that say, 130 thousand families pay neither taxes nor contributions, because they can benefit from the tax and social benefits of children on their average income? Do you think it is only good for the wealthy to be able to write a million forints off their mortgage when the second child is born, and the third child will be paid four million forints instead by the state? Do you think it only favors the wealthy? I would also like to say, ladies and gentlemen of the House, that there has already been a rebuttal here that there is a high or no high level of foreign employment in Hungary, but according to a recent French survey, more than 70 percent of young French people would go abroad to work if they had a better payment offer or had a better climate in the country. Compared to this, I think we can still be very proud of the young Hungarians. The opposition representatives said that more should have been spent on education, health care and family support in the past. We spend 606 billion forints more on education than you have done, we spend 647 billion forints more on health than you have done, and we spend more than 1000 billion forints on families than you have spent. There is not much of another country in Europe that spends such a high proportion, more than 4.5 percent of its total national product on supporting families and supporting Hungarian families. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, There is no country in Europe, as I said in my introduction, where more people would be born than people would die. Other countries of Europe, west of the Lajta, think only of migration as a remedy and cure. We in Hungary want to prove the opposite, as we have done in many other questions in the last eight or nine years. We support families so that we can reverse this negative trend in Europe while preserving our national self-determination and our Christian culture. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-82	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken on this day. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to the Alien Police Service and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The government referral is T/3622. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ovadi, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-04-01-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 28 March 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed T/3622 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the foreign police body. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 24 votes in favour, 5 against and 3 abstentions. Allow me to briefly explain the most important points of the bill before us. Since the 2015 migration wave, there has been a significant increase in public security and public policy risks for persons subject to asylum and immigration procedures throughout the European Union. In order to stop illegal migration, Hungary has already taken a number of measures: it has created triple protection, or it has also adopted legislation that makes the organisation of illegal migration punishable. The reorganisation of the Immigration and Asylum Office also responds to these new challenges. The Immigration and Asylum Office also carries out administrative and police tasks, but today asylum and foreign police are already beyond the general administrative powers. As a result of this transformation, the Office will be able to take, in its own right, measures which have so far been carried out only by specific police intervention. As a police body, the Office will also be entitled to apply measures that allow for more effective action in its control activities. The purpose of the bill is to ensure that the risks to public security that arise can be identified and screened more effectively in the performance of asylum and foreign police tasks. In order to achieve this goal, as of 1 July 2019 the Immigration and Asylum Office would continue to act as a police body. As a result of the change, some of the employees' government service relationships are transformed into professional service rights. A number of legal and grammatical clarifications can be found in the summary amendment proposal. In addition to these clarifications, it is appropriate to supplement, in view of the legal institution of the administrative service of the law introduced from 1 February 2019, the legislation to be incorporated into the law on public service officials, which is the employer of HSzt. lays down the rule of a change of legal relationship in the event of its entry into force. So far, it has only been a question of professional employment law, but it is also necessary to include law enforcement administrative staff. The amendment also provides for the possibility of placing government officials engaged in professional service but who do not comply with health, psychological or physical requirements in respect of professional positions. They will thus be able to continue to be employed in the administrative service of law enforcement, instead of being exempt. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has been said above, we can conclude that we can talk about a series of legislative proposals involving a number of positive changes. Therefore, I would like your support for the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State, if he wishes to address the item as rapporteur at this stage of the debate. [[Contra on Charles' signal:]] Yeah. [[12.40]] I would like to inform the Secretary of State that a total period of 10 minutes is available to say the speech and the possible closing word. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-04-01-85	I would like to thank Mr President very much for the information and announce that I will make my contribution after the debate. Thank you very much.
u2019-04-01-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Defence and Police Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute speech during the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to Congressman Miklós Simon, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-04-01-87	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, T/3622 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the foreign police body. The legislative proposal aims to transform the Immigration and Asylum Office into a law enforcement body. Currently, the Immigration and Asylum Office also carries out administrative and police tasks. In the past, the performance of administrative tasks was dominant, but today the tasks of asylum and foreign police go beyond the general administrative tasks. The bill turns the office into a law enforcement body. It thus becomes entitled to police action, which aims at the effectiveness of handling matters. The Commission's amendment required that the amendments in question were made in accordance with Article T/3622 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Compatible with the current proposal No.18. CHAPTER XII CXV., 2015 on the service relationship of the professional staff of law enforcement bodies, entered into force on 20th. and by law amending other related laws, which, inter alia, introduced the service of law enforcement. The amendment was unanimously supported by the Defence Committee on 28 February 2019. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary Károly Kontra. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-04-01-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The adoption of the amendments tabled to this bill is necessary due to a change of legislation that entered into force after the submission of the bill in November 2018, and I thank you also for the support of the committees and the support of my fellow Members who spoke in the debate on the adoption of the bill. In view of the legal institution of the administrative service of the law introduced from 1 February 2019, the composition of the staff of the foreign police body will also be changed, as has been the case with other law enforcement bodies. In addition to professional staff, the staff of the Alien Police Service will be staffed by law enforcement administrative staff and staff. Dear Parliament, It is important to point out that the transformation is not automatic; in each case, the employee may consider whether to undertake the establishment of a law enforcement administrative service, the need for a contribution is laid down in the amending proposal as a guarantee rule. The amendment makes it possible for employees who do not fulfil the eligibility requirement without their own fault to continue their employment, with their consent, in the administrative capacity of a law enforcement officer. The proposal to redeem any remaining leave of existing staff in 2018 has also been submitted as a further amendment. Further amendments to the bill lead to minor language-location and legal-technical clarifications that have become necessary in the text. The adoption of the bill would ensure that asylum and foreign police tasks are performed more effectively in the future in Hungary, so the adoption of the proposal will ensure the safety of both Hungary and the Hungarian people as a whole. In view of all of this, I would like to ask the honourable Parliament, the bill and the summarised amendment tabled to it to support it. Thank you for your support and your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-90	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken on this day. Dear Parliament, Following up on certain questions concerning the organisation of the markets in agricultural products, the 2015 XCVII on producer and interbranch organisations. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and on certain legislative amendments to the establishment of the National Land Centre and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. The government referral is T/5238. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Fazekas, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-04-01-91	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 28 March 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed certain aspects of the organisation of the agricultural product markets, the 2015 XLVII on producer organisations and interbranch organisations. Law 97. T/5238 on the amendment of §8 of the Act and on certain amendments to the legislation relating to the establishment of the National Land Centre. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. 28 votes in favour, 2 against and 3 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal before us contains two amendments. It provides for certain organisational changes to be carried out in order to carry out land management tasks more effectively. One important element of these is the establishment of a national land centre. The National Land Fund Management Organization, the National Cadastral Program Nonprofit Kft. and by merging specific units of the Budapest Government Office, the new organisation, which will also be responsible for the elimination of undivided joint ownership and the management of property. Another amendment to the bill provides a solution to a problem that has been emerging for many years. With the adoption of the proposal, cherry and apple growers would no longer be able to find themselves in an unworthy situation at the time of the sale. The situation of fruit growers becomes more predictable by introducing the contract specifications, by requiring processing plants to offer their producer partners a pre-emptive purchase offer. In addition, in view of the small quantities of fruit processing organisations, a quantitative limit is set below which such organisations would be exempted from the application of pre-contractual contracts. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has just been said, I would like your support for the adoption of the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Sándor Farkas, Deputy Minister, if he wishes to respond at this stage of the debate or later. [[For signal:]] You want to react later, Mr. Secretary of State. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Agriculture Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-04-01-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. There are a lot of positive elements in this draft legislation, which we have already said in committee and during Parliament's debate, but let's face it that it is unlikely that it will achieve the objective that has been set here in the explanatory statement and which is intended to refer to real problems. [[12.50]] I am thinking that, since our amendments were not accepted, this amendment will be virtually free of any concrete amendment in many respects, so it is easy to see the situation that we have already experienced in the case of grapes last year. There has already been an amendment that forces the parties to enter into a contractual relationship, which may be right for the first time, but the end result is that the farmers have been worse off than they were in the previous years without this contractual relationship, and it is now a record state that it is even worse to walk. So it would have been good to have more concrete legislation, and then we would dared to say more bravely that, in the case of apples and sour cherries, they really solved the problems of farmers returning year after year with this amendment. I am pleased that the amendment of the Committee on Agriculture is now addressing the request of the farmers, and in this way the legislation is already adopted without making the operation of the local distilleries impossible. We are in favour of this subsequent amendment, and that is why our previous amendment on this subject has finally lost its meaning. If they didn't accept it, we're used to it from you, at least they were able to bring this amendment in with their own logo. What is sad is that not only does the creation of the National Earth Management Centre start with the fact that perhaps they will finally put an end to the problem of undivided common property and start their national liquidation, but also has a message that the National Land Fund Manager has practically no meaning left, as they have privatized most of the state land. This is a very long and constantly recurring problem for us, because we did not expect this from you, who in the 2010 election campaign, and even in the two years that followed, have constantly said that the Hungarian state needs a more serious agricultural policy in the countryside, a more serious presence, and that is an essential tool for this. We fully agreed with this, with their opinion at the time. On the other hand, the sad reality has become that practically the entire Hungarian national wealth of land has been privatized. I'm sorry that we've come this far, and it's a part of the establishment of the National Earth Control Center, because from now on, the NFA has virtually lost its meaning. But if the elimination of undivided common property and the dissolution of it by legislation beneficial to all, we look forward to it and support it, because this, too, I can now say, is almost a decade's promise by your government. All in all, I can therefore say that unfortunately, our amendment which called for more concrete, tangible facts and benchmarks to be given to stakeholders in the sector has not been adopted in the legislation. In this way, we do not believe that he will achieve the goal that he rightly stated in his reasoning. We will therefore be able to support the amendments, but I will propose to the Jobbik fraction that we abstain from the legislation. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-04-01-94	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas to answer questions raised in the debate.
u2019-04-01-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, I was a little shocked to hear your speech, because in recent times, when the law was being debated, they were practically clearly in favour of the law and gave their support to this law. Now, however, there is a setback. But I would like to reassure the honourable Member that the activity of the National Centre for Earth Affairs is clearly a new opportunity that will serve a unified approach, a unified settlement and a faster administration of changes in ownership and future changes. Not least, of course, this organisation will prepare it, and this organisation will be more appropriate to put it this way, which will play a major role in the settlement of undivided common land. With this, I think we're sorry for the expression we've embedded in the law to have an organization that can operate and supervise it. On the other two issues, the changes in the pálinka case and in the fruit sector, I think are lifelike. This lifelikeness of farmers and farmers seems to have found a positive hearing, which is why we are asking the pro-government and opposition representatives to support this law. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-04-01-96	Thank you very much for the Deputy Minister's answers. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our sitting today. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the settlement of the property management of certain state-owned properties affected by the activities of the International Children's Rescue Service Hungarian Association and the discussion of the summary amendment will follow. Péter Harrach and Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP, representatives submitted T/5166. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ovadi, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-04-01-97	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at the meeting of the Legislative Committee held on 28 March 2019, T/5166 discussed the settlement of the property management of certain state-owned properties involved in the activities of the International Children's Rescue Service Hungarian Association. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution No 46. By 24 votes in favour, 2 against and 7 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The International Children's Rescue Service Hungarian Association ("the Association') was established to support children who are physically, mentally injured, orphans and socially disadvantaged children, improve their living conditions and help children's institutions. He does all this, for example, with the help of horse therapy. However, long-term settlement of the legal relationships of state-owned property included in this bill is essential in order to ensure that this activity can be carried out under stable conditions that can be planned in advance. In this context, ensuring the trusting right of state-owned property in the proposal to the association is the solution that best supports the activities of children for healthy development. Dear fellow Members, The aim of the bill is of particular importance and ensures that the association can continue its meaningful work at an appropriate level. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-04-01-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, whether he wishes to speak at this stage or at a later stage of the debate. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Later.]] The Member points out that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. In total, you will have a time frame of almost ten minutes. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone on the government's side wants to speak. [[Dr. János Fónagy: Yes, thank you.]] Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-04-01-99	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill submitted as an independent motion by the representatives of the KDNP faction aims to help the work of the International Children's Rescue Service Hungarian Association in the early 2000s, Foton, with the long-term provision of the state property it has used for nearly three decades now. The government supports the objectives set out in the bill. The proposed amendment, which is now under discussion, aims to ensure a satisfactory settlement of the situation of tenants currently using a small part of the property and living on the edge of the property, compared to the original proposal. According to this, on the date of entry into force of the Act, contracts on immovable property for an indefinite period or which expire after 1 September 2020 will be maintained in their scope by the International Children's Rescue Service Hungarian Association as the successor to the registered trustee of the contract. [[13.00]] In addition to the above, certain provisions of the amending proposal clarify, in the light of the practical experience of public asset management, the provisions authorising the scrapping of the investment carried out by the trustee and the material resulting from the demolition. In addition to the substantive amendments, the amendment also contains a number of codification and language-placed clarifications to establish linguistic and legal coherence. Dear House, I thank the committees for their supporting professional work, with which, in addition to comments at expert level, they themselves contributed to the clarification of the text of the bill and to the addition of codification from a professional point of view. In order to achieve the noble goals set by the Association, the provisions of the bill and the summary amendment clearly contribute, so I ask the Honourable Parliament that T/5166. Please support the legislative proposal No 1 and the proposal for a summary amendment submitted. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-100	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute speech during the debate. I will ask my fellow Members if they wish to take this opportunity. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa to respond to what has been said on behalf of the authors. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-04-01-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Really very briefly, thanking the government for its support, thanking the committees for their work, the contributions of the factions, their comments and my fellow Member Imre Vejkey's proposed amendment, which, if you can say so, contributed much to the fact that this law would indeed be a whole. I would like to ask everyone, if possible, to support this proposal in the final vote, so that in a stable, secure situation, the start of the blessed work of child rescue workers for disabled or disadvantaged children can continue. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken on this day. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on further guarantees to ensure the independence of administrative courts and the discussion of the draft amending proposal follow up. T/5241 submitted by MEPs Csaba Hende, Pál Völner, Gergely Gulyás and Zsolt Nyitrai. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-04-01-103	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 28 March 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/5241 on additional guarantees for the independence of administrative courts. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 24 votes in favour, 9 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary's historical tradition and favourable international examples, especially in the European Union, also highlight the need for Hungary to settle our nearly thirty-year debt and to establish a judicial forum to deal effectively with matters between the state and citizens in the balance of public interest and individual interests, with the assistance of expert judges, in a separate form. Recently, the Hungarian Parliament passed the law on administrative courts, which was created based on international examples, taking into account Hungarian traditions. Following the adoption of the bill, the Venice Commission, at the request of the Government of Hungary, examined the provisions of the relevant legislation and put a fully agreed report on the table, in which it acknowledged, among other things, the validity of the ministerial administration. The proposal before us has incorporated all the comments and, if adopted, a system of administrative courts that is fully compliant with European values will be in place in the near future. Ladies and gentlemen, The legislation on administrative courts has passed through the strictest of the rules and fully complies with the European standards and Hungarian traditions. In view of this, I ask you to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Vice-President Csaba Hende, our fellow Member, as rapporteur, indicated that he wished to speak at a later stage in the debate. At a later stage of the debate, you will have a total timeframe of ten minutes. I will ask if Mr Pál Völner, on behalf of the Government, wishes to speak now. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Not now.]] Mr Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to speak. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. There is no possibility of a two-minute speech during the debate. In writing, you indicated your intention to speak in advance, Congresswoman Anett Bősz, an independent Member. I give you the floor, please.
u2019-04-01-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As I have already indicated in the detailed debate, despite the fact that we have a proposal for an amendment, despite the fact that the Government seems to have been open to follow certain amendments made by the Venice Commission and to amend them accordingly, well, unfortunately, the institution of the administrative courts does not comply with the requirements of a European rule of law. We have talked about this a lot, I and my fellow Members have talked about it. It's all about you breaking up the unity of the three branches of power. They're breaking up a unity that's a centuries-old tradition in a normal democracy, and they're not paying attention to a slice of one of the three powers being transferred to the government. That is what we need to talk about, and unfortunately, this amending proposal is not acceptable. Thank you for listening.
u2019-04-01-106	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[Csaba Hende reporting.]] As a national or a participant in the debate? [[Csaba Hende: As rapporteur.]] [[Csaba Hende reporting.]] As a national or a participant in the debate? (Csaba Hende: As rapporteur.) As an author. Then you'd like to take the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the debate will be held by... (Csaba Hende. ) Yeah, now. Sorry, my interpretation was wrong, Mr. Vice President. Of course, Mr Vice-President, as rapporteur, wishes to take part in the debate. You have the floor.
u2019-04-01-107	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to reply very, very briefly to our fellow Member Anett Bősz. There were two parts to his speech. None of his claims stand up. One of his claims was that the pro-government representatives, who presented the proposal before us, accepted part of the comments made by the Venice Commission and accepted part of it. Well, I would like to inform you, just as I did in my expo, and also in the general debate, that all of the comments made on the last two pages of the Venice Commission's consensus report, i.e. all five of them, have been accepted and the amendment responds appropriately to these objections. [[13.10]] There was no discussion between the European Parliament, the Venice Commission, acting as the legal advisory body of the European Union and the Hungarian Parliament. This is a very important question. And to the question of principle: that this bill, as you said, Congresswoman, would disrupt the centuries-old practice of separation of powers, was a conflicting and incorrect sentence on your part. The reality is that we are now returning to the administrative tribunal that was lifted in 1949, with the arrival of the Communist dictatorship. So, actually, we're restoring the historical tradition. The unity of justice will, of course, continue to be fully preserved and ensured through uniform judicial status and undamaged judicial independence. I would like to refer to the fact that administrative judicial action, which is organised in a separate way from the ordinary judicial system, is still a living practice in 16 Member States of the European Union. Just as it was a living practice in Hungary, the year of the so-called revolution came before the communist dictatorship. What is the point of this bill? I would like to remind you and all those who believe in the rule of law, the liberal concept, that the decisions taken by the public administration are currently being brought to justice within the public administration system. This means that, let's just say, the decision of civil servants dependent on local or central authority can be appealed to civil servants with such status as employees of the government office. That's all, but it's not really a reassuring and rule of law. Compared to this, the future procedure followed, which will be possible after the current establishment of administrative courts, will be that some people, citizens, civil society organisations or other legal entities, who are inevitably in a weaker position and in some sense vulnerable to such power bodies, will, in future, not in this system of public bodies, not within the public administration, but directly to the independent court. This is a radical change, the most favourable thing for the protection of human and civil rights. That is why I am surprised that the representative of the Liberal Party objects to the solution that, as I said, the vast majority of the European Union is followed by the Member States, and which, in principle and fundamentally, the Venice Commission did not object for a moment. The five points in which our bill makes amendments are, in fact, a matter of detail compared to the whole. So the fact that the establishment of administrative courts neither weakens the separation of powers nor legal certainty nor the protection of civil rights, but actually strengthens all of this, well, there was no dispute from the outset on the part of the high-ranking constitutional judges of the Venice Commission. I would like to reassure the Member and everyone who watches Parliament's mediation that the progress made through the rule of law is the establishment of administrative courts, with which we join the most fortunate European countries, where there was no communist dictatorship, which would have abolished this system of institutions for the guarantee of human and civil rights. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-04-01-108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the KDNP Group, and also the Chair of the Justice Committee.
u2019-04-01-109	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, have been inspired by our fellow Member Anett; that is because we are used to the fact that what we are saying does not please the Member's voice. We're used to the fact that our bill doesn't usually support us, usually with negative judgment, but sometimes it's a matter of mischief. But the novum for us is that the resolution of the Venice Commission itself is not accepted by the congresswoman. The Congresswoman does not accept it because it is the T/5241 in front of us. In fact, the Commission's technical comment in the amendment proposal is the only one that has been applied to the amendment. I believe that the Venice Commission, which operates alongside the Council of Europe, is indeed a very excellent lawyer, and the Minister of Justice has expressed his willingness to consider the professional comments of the Venice Commission regarding the amendment of the laws adopted. And that's what happened. That's why we have this bill. So we are in constitutional dialogue, and this constitutional dialogue is in a situation where we have this bill before us. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, I must stress, that the division of power in Montesquieu, the legislator, the executive and the judicial authorities will not be violated or even strengthened by this bill. Please support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-04-01-110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Anett Bősz, to the extent possible. Here you go.
u2019-04-01-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to thank my fellow Members for having explained their views in such detail on this amendment. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, at the moment, we are seeing a damaged state of law in many respects in our country. In view of this, to introduce a model that gives the executive power the opportunity to influence any branch of judicial power, I think it is a very dangerous decision. This is why I argue liberally that the institution of administrative courts cannot at the moment be interpreted differently within the Hungarian framework than as a deterioration of the independence of the judiciary, and that is why we have fought for the last moment, together with opposition colleagues, so that this institution is not adopted in this form. Now, I think my time is up. Thank you.
u2019-04-01-112	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Vice-President if, as rapporteur, he wishes to reply to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give you the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2019-04-01-113	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Just very, very briefly. I have just explained why the fears expressed here by Mrs Anett Bősz are unfounded. I suggest you realize that this balloon has burst; don't blow it, because the air escapes from it. Don't look for problems where they're not. Do not make a constitutional objection where the most delicate Venice Commission can no longer find fault. After all, they have already stated that, if the bill, which is registered with my fellow Members, among other things, Pál Völner and Gergely Gulyás, is adopted, their objections will, in effect, be remedied in their entirety. Don't think of us, honourable Member, as a result of intentions that call into question our standing 30 years ago as a personal risk to our entire career, the communist dictatorship, because this is personally offensive! [[13.20]] Do not presume, for the third time, by a two-thirds majority, that the majority that governs the nation's trust is not an unconditional and committed advocate of the rule of law, of civil and human rights, because that is what we have been fighting for since we were young. Do not assume false and evil intentions about us, for there is no basis for this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-04-01-114	Thank you for the Member's reply. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken on this day. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CCVI on the right of freedom of conscience and freedom of religion and the status of churches, religions and religious communities follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Hende Csaba, Attila Barcza, Zoltán Demeter, István Bajkai, Pál Völner, Tamás Herczeg, Fidesz; Gábor Bányai, Richárd Hörcsik, Miklós Simon, Zoltán Fenyvesi, Károly Panczél, Péter Ovádi, Zoltán Bóna and Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz; and Imre Vejkey and Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP; representatives submitted T/5244. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-04-01-115	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 28 March 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the right of freedom of conscience and religion and the CCVI 2011 on the status of churches, religious groups and religious communities. T/5244 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the amendment of law. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 28 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 1 abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, The church law has recently been amended in view of the observations made by the Constitutional Court and certain international organisations. The amendments made by the law also necessarily bring with them the amendment of the related sectoral legislation, in order to establish a coherent regulation at the time of the entry into force of the law. The proposal before us fulfils this requirement by amending the relevant provisions of 27 laws. In addition to the terminology transfers resulting from the amendment of the church law, the proposal also makes some substantive changes; for example, the bill establishes detailed rules for the registration of religious communities with legal personality outside of established churches. The draft provides a wide range of freedom of religion for prisoners and the associated powers of religious communities with legal personality. I would also like to point out that, at the expense of the funeral contribution in the event of the death of the orphans who have received an allowance, the costs of a religious ceremony will also be eligible as funeral costs, as requested by the deceased or his family. Ladies and gentlemen, As has been said, the bill before us contains the necessary terminology transfers and has several substantive amendments, which are mutually beneficial to citizens, the religious community and the state. In view of the mutual benefits and the necessary terminology, the Fidesz-KDNP Group supports the bill. Please do the same. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-04-01-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask who, on behalf of the rapporteur, would like to speak. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, chairman of the Justice Committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-04-01-117	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, CCVI of 2011 on the right of freedom of conscience and religion and on the status of churches, religions and religious communities. T/5244 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the amendment of law. The aim of the Hungarian legal system as a whole is to ensure consistency between the legal standards of the CXXXII of 2018 which will become effective from 15 April 2019. Act No 1 of 12 December 2018 on the basis of its amendment provisions. On this basis, as my fellow Member has just said, 27 related laws need to be amended. These amendments are included in the bill and the necessary formal and technical amendments were made before the TAB. Please support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-04-01-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr. Miklós Soltész if he wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-04-01-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The government will continue to support this proposal, and thank you all for your work. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-04-01-120	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. I give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, the rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, who will present the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue and then translate it into Hungarian. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2019-04-01-121	Thank you. Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Im Namen des Parlamentarischen Ausschusses für Nationalitäten in Ungarn möchte ich Sie als Ausschuss-Vorsitzender und Repräsentant des Ausschusses herzlich begrüßen. Über den unter der Kennzahl T/5244. eingerechten Gesetzesänderungsvorschlag hat unser Ausschuss verhandelt und einen einstimmigen Standpunkt eingenommen. Mr President, Dear House, On behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, as Chairman of the Committee and rapporteur for the Commission's opinion, I welcome you with respect. T/5244. CCVI of 2011 on the right of freedom of conscience and religion and on the status of churches, religions and religious communities. Our committee, as a related committee, has established a unified position on the bill amending certain laws relating to the amendment of the law. At its meeting on 26 March 2019 our Commission held a detailed debate on the motion and concluded that the bill was in line with the House Rule 44. Paragraph 1 of this Article. The bill only names the national governments in two places, yet we considered it important that our committee, in the course of this amendment of the law, should also be able to formulate a common, unified opinion on the Churches, on the life of faith, on the Hungarian ethnicities. In the survival of nationalities native to Hungary, in the survival of smaller or greater historical storms, in the survival of ordeals, in the existence, care of ethnic cultural and educational autonomy, and in the passing on of our traditions, churches, religious denominations and faith have always played a significant role. The ethnicity and belief of indigenous ethnicities in Hungary were inseparable, and this is still the case today. For us, the relationship with churches, ecclesiastical NGOs, active participation in church singing, orchestras, youth groups, the care of our ethnic traditions almost matched with liturgical events, the daily experience of our ethnic beliefs, besides education and education, is one of the most important guarantees of our ethnic future. This is also indicated by the current CCVI. Several of the churches listed in the Annex to the Law on the right of freedom of conscience and freedom of religion and the status of churches, religious groups and religious communities, for example, the Serbian Orthodox Diocese of Buda, the Bulgarian Orthodox Church of Hungary, the Romanian Orthodox Diocese of Hungary, are clearly and decisively linked to a indigenous nationality in Hungary. [[13.30]] But, of course, it can be said that there are many believers among both the Catholic, the Reformed and the Evangelical Church who consider themselves to belong to one of the indigenous nationalities in Hungary. The figures generated by the 2011 census show that only 8350 of our 644 623, nationalities, and less than 1.3 percent of those surveyed, claimed to be atheists. In recognition of this, we can also consider that 52th will be held in Budapest from 13 to 20 September 2020. At the request of Cardinal Péter Erdő, personally in preparation for the event of the international Eucharistic Congress, the preparatory committee of the Congress first visited the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary and the indigenous ethnicities in Hungary will play a distinct role in the event of the Eucharistic Congress. The ethnic ecclesiastical choir meetings, orchestral meetings, youth events, national minority masses and other ethnic liturgical cultural events held in various ethnic languages can not only provide a memorable, decisive experience for members of indigenous ethnicities living in Hungary, but also for all foreign believers from all over the world who come to Hungary, belonging to the language area of a Hungarian ethnicity. All these liturgical events in ethnic languages can also improve Hungary's favourable international judgment, as the positive nationalism policy of Hungarian politics can be read not only in words, but also through their personal programs. In view of all of this, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary is set out in Annex T/5244. CCVI of 2011 on the right of freedom of conscience and religion and on the status of churches, religions and religious communities. It supports, agrees with, and proposes the adoption of a bill amending certain laws relating to the amendment of the Act. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by Members within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute speech during the debate. I ask my fellow Members if they wish to take this opportunity. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I will ask Mr President if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[On Dr. Imre Vejkey's signal:]] You have the floor, President Imre Vejkey, Chairman of the Justice Committee. Here you go.
u2019-04-01-123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Imre Ritter, a German national representative, for his speech, as well as for the support of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, as a related committee, by T/5244. Bill No. 1. Thank you for your speech, because it is important. It is important that, as Members and advocates in this Parliament, what your opinion is and I think it is extremely forward-looking. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] That is why I ask my fellow opposition Members to take an example of ethnic advocates, to take an example of the national representative and to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-124	Thank you very much, Commission President Vejkey. Dear Parliament, I salute my fellow Members. Decisions will be taken on this day. Next up is the LXVI of 2011 on the State Audit Office, adopted by the Parliament on 12 December 2018, sent back for consideration by the President of the Republic. Act 1 and Act CXCIX of 2011 on Public Service Officers. the legislative committee report submitted to the law amending law and the debate on the amendment proposal. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/3633/8. Letter from the President of the Republic to T/3633/9. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee T/3633/11. and T/3633/12. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. They have a total of 15 minutes. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Ovádi, rapporteur of the committee.
u2019-04-01-125	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee held on 28 March 2019, the LXVI of 2011 on the State Audit Office, adopted by the Parliament on 12 December 2018, was discussed by the President of the Republic. Act 1 and Act CXCIX of 2011 on Public Service Officers. T/3633/9. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution 46. By 24 votes in favour, 6 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, On the basis of this amendment, with regard to guarantees for unilateral amendment of the appointment of auditors, the draft bill is supplemented by the conditions which are included in the Act on Government Administration containing similar regulations. Among the different conditions are those that can be interpreted in the context of an audit relationship. Thus, within four working days of the date of notification of the amendment to his appointment, the auditor may make a written request for his dismissal if the amount of his salary is less than 80% of his previous salary after the change of appointment. The amendment separates the rules on the subsequent conflicts of interest of the auditors from the institution of severance payments, thus the rule of severance after the discharge, which stated that in the event of a monthly severance payment, no legal relationship can be established by the auditor, this amendment leaves. Dear fellow Members, The adoption of the bill will help the State Audit Office to continue to function effectively, and I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-126	Thank you very much, Congressman Ovadi. The minority opinion will now be presented within a 7-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2019-04-01-127	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Jobbik Movement for Hungary at the meeting of the Legislative Committee made a forward-looking amendment, which, unfortunately, was voted off by the Fidesz MEPs, although I believe that this would be a very important change to the law. [[13.40]] Certified information to the public is, in my opinion, a very important question, even though we have become accustomed to this in the past period, because the Fidesz media, including the public media, does not give credible information to the population of the country, the voters, and I believe that it could play a role of a substitute for the deficit, so that Parliament and Parliament can try to turn to the public in a credible manner and inform the public. What everyone knows is that when we talk about the State Audit Office, László Domokos serves Fidesz as a party soldier and looks at all the wishes of the bright-eyed leader, whether it is working to make the strongest opposition party impossible or anything else. And since we also know that Fidesz intends to rebuild a one-party system in this country, on the road to this one-party system, the State Audit Office of Hungary is helping the party in principle, because with its actions, we can safely say that it is trying to interfere with the elections as well, because the amount of money that one opposition party can campaign with is still small compared to Fidesz, even when the State Audit Office punishes Jobbik, for example, for a billion forints and takes away 1 billion forints of money from which Jobbik might be able to provide some information to the public. So we believe that the State Audit Office has certainly earned the change that Jobbik, as I said, proposed in a amending proposal at the TAB meeting, namely that with this change the public would understand more clearly the SAO's work over the past period, and that there would perhaps be no doubt in public opinion or in voters as to what work the SAO is doing. So our amendment was to change the name of the State Audit Office to the party state Court of Auditors, which would express the proper work done by the SAO in recent years. Unfortunately, the Fidesz MEPs voted against this, so it seems to them that it is not important for the public to know exactly what work László Domokos and the SAO have done in recent years. But even though you voted against this amendment at the TAB meeting, and the SAO would deserve the title "Party State Audit Office," sooner or later everyone will realize and understand that both you and the State Audit Office, so Fidesz and the State Audit Office are working with party-state methods, using party-state methods, and their goal is to bring back the one-party system in this country, 30 years after the so-called regime change, only you to be in power, only you to tell us who is the good person, who is the right person, who is the right person, who is the one who can advance in this country. You must be the masters of life and death in this country and act as small kings and do your work as some people did in the so-called curse. They want to build a separate caste in this country, and they have only one password:.. Only the Fidesz! That was one of their slogans, and you are absolutely loyal to this one slogan. So we are very sorry that you did not support this amendment, so, of course, we will not be able to support and support your bill. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-04-01-128	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak now. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, Interventions by the Members shall take place within the time limits on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I would first give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing, but no one has applied in writing. So I'll ask if anyone wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. Therefore, the debate was not a big debate. I would like to ask the rapporteur once again, Mr Miklós Soltész, State Secretary, whether he wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[On the mark of Miklós Soltesz:]] You have a ten-minute window, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-04-01-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The law before us was adopted by the Parliament on the day of the ominous sitting on 12 December 2018, along with many other laws. What the opposition has not been paying attention to, we have made sure that what the President of the Republic has sent back will be amended, taking into account the requests and proposals, and that is what we are now presenting to the Parliament. All this has been done, and I commend this bill to the Parliament. I would just like to say to Congressman György Szilágyi that the SAO is not making Jobbik impossible, but that Jobbik is making himself impossible by its own politicalization and its own mismanagement. [[Bana Tibor's intervention.]] I'd like to take a look at the polls, see why there are so many Members who will leave you. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches: Don't look at the ground! We're here!]] Why is it that basic organisations quit or cease to exist? [[Interviews from Jobbik's benches: Look! Don't look at the ground. Dr. László György Lukács: Into my eyes! You can look at us, Congressman.]] Why is it that a new party has been formed from your party? Would you look around, not accuse yourself of anything that is absolutely a lie? So I must say to you and to you, honourable right-wing Members, that on one side, if you change your politics, you will be in a better position, and if you want to push it only on the State Audit Office, which has happened as a result of your bad management, and I think it is a very stupid thing, because it shows that not only can you lead, direct, not even a small village, not even a small city, but you could be entrusted with the governance of a country, because you cannot manage it. That message was clear. And I would like the bill to be supported by my fellow Members. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-04-01-130	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Now, Honourable Parliament, I'm ordering a recess. At 16 o'clock, we will continue our work with decisions. Until then, there's a break, so it's 16:00. (Sunning: 13.47 16.07) President: István Jakab Note: Attila Móring József and Dr. László György Lukács)
u2019-04-01-131	Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. My fellow Members have taken their seats. Please make sure that your card is placed in the voting machine. If you have done so and everyone is operational, and your card is operational, then we will begin our work. LXVI of 2011 on the State Audit Office, adopted by the Parliament on 12 December 2018, sent back for consideration by the President of the Republic. Act 1 and Act CXCIX of 2011 on Public Service Officers. Decision on the proposal for a legislative amendment to the Act amending Law and the final vote. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/3633/8. Letter from the President of the Republic, p. T/3633/9. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. T/3633/11. and T/3633/12. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the provisions of the House Rules, there is no possibility to maintain a proposal amending the decision and to request a separate vote. We are now deciding on an amendment to the Legislative Committee. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 1, 2, 3, 4, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the parts requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/3633/11. Points 1, 2, 3 and 4 requiring a majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the points requesting a qualified majority of the amendment proposal by 133 votes in favour, 52 against and 6 abstentions. We are now deciding on a simple majority of the legislative committee's proposal to amend point 5 further. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/3633/11. A further point 5 of the amendment, which requires a simple majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the additional point of the amendment, which required a simple majority, by 134 votes in favour, 52 against and 6 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the 2011 LXVI on the State Audit Office. Act 1 and Act CXCIX of 2011 on Public Service Officers. The provisions of the Act, which is not published, require a qualified majority with the amendments which have just been adopted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The provisions of the Act requiring a qualified majority were adopted by 134 votes in favour, 58 against and without abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the 2011 LXVI on the State Audit Office. Act 1 and Act CXCIX of 2011 on Public Service Officers. The provisions of the law which has not been declared amending the Act require a simple majority with the amendments which have just been adopted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The provisions of the Act, which require a simple majority, were adopted by 134 votes in favour, 58 against and without abstentions. Next up is the T/5132 on the amendments to the law necessary for the implementation of the Family Protection Action Plan. Final vote of bill No 1. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 2, 3 and 4. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 132 against and 4 abstentions. [[16.10]] Amendment 3 is proposed by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 54 votes to 134, with four abstentions. Amendment 4 is proposed by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 54 votes to 134, with four abstentions. As the Parliament did not maintain a proposal for an amendment and the amendment summarised for the proposal was not tabled, we will decide on the text of the bill submitted in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5132. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 176 votes in favour, 10 against and 6 abstentions. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] There is a series of provisions on certain house rules 10/2014. CCVI of 2011 on the right of freedom of conscience and religion and the status of churches, religions and religious communities. CXXXII of 2018 amending Act No. H/4819. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of the proposal for a resolution requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present under Article 5 (7) of the Fundamental Law. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/4819. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 160 votes to 26, with six abstentions. A series of amendments to the law required to implement the European Union's data protection reform will be followed by T/4479. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/4479/5. and the summary report by T/4479/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rule is 48. Under paragraph 2 of Section T/4479/5, the referring party shall be T/4479/5. Amendment No 34 and related amendments No 22, 24, 25, 26 He initiated a separate vote on points 35 and 36. First, we decide on the part of the summary amendment that requires a qualified majority, then on the points requested for the various votes, and then we decide on the further points of the summarised amendment proposal. We are now deciding on point 38 of the summarised amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of this will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4479/5. Point 38 of the consolidated amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the points of the summary amendment requiring a qualified majority by 165 votes in favour, with no votes against, with 27 abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 34, which requires a simple majority, which is requested for a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4479/5. Point 34 of the proposed amendment, which requires a simple majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the amendment by 160 votes in favour, no votes against, with 32 abstentions. We now decide on the adoption of points 22, 24, 25, 26, 35 and 36 of the draft amendment, which require a simple majority in substance, to be put to a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4479/5. Point 22, 24, 25, 26, 35 and 36 of the consolidated amendment proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament did not accept the proposed amendments by 26 votes in favour, 134 against and 32 abstentions. [[16.20]] We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4479/5. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted further points requiring a simple majority, with 157 votes in favour, 7 against and 28 abstentions. In view of the fact that the Parliament has not just adopted all the points of the summarised amendment proposal, in the final vote we will decide on the text of the bill which has been amended with the agreed points of the summarised amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/4479 accepts it. The provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority by 156 votes in favour, 9 against and 27 abstentions. We now decide on the parts of the amended bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/4479 accepts it. The provisions of the amended bill, which require a simple majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a simple majority by 156 votes in favour, 8 against and 28 abstentions. Next up is the Maecenas Universitatis Corvini Foundation, the Maecenas Universitatis Corvini Foundation and the T/4514. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/4514/5. T/4514/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of point 3, point 4 of the bill, point 4. Section 7 of the bill, which amends paragraph 2 of Section 6 of the Act. Section 2 amends paragraph 2 and a qualified majority is required for the adoption of point 10; the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the parts requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4514/5. A qualified majority of the amendment proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the parts of the summary amendment requiring a qualified majority by 135 votes in favour, 53 against and 4 abstentions. We are now deciding on other parts of the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4514/5. The other parts of the summary amendment proposal require a simple majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the remaining parts of the summary amendment which required a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 54 against and 4 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4514/7. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 133 votes to 54, with four abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4514/7. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 52 against and 4 abstentions. The 2012 CIII on the Erzsébet programme follows in line. T/4820. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/4820/5. and the summary report by T/4820/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of this will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4820/5. A summary amendment was proposed. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 160 votes to 26, with six abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4820/7. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 160 votes in favour, 25 against and 7 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4820/7. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 160 votes in favour, 26 against and 6 abstentions. Next up is T/3622 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the alien police. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/3622/5. T/3622/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rule is 48. Under paragraph 2 of Section T/3622/5, the author is entitled "T/3622/5." A separate vote was initiated on point 18 of the summary amendment proposal. First, we decide on the parts of the summary amendment that require a qualified majority and then on the point that was asked for a separate vote. We will then decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. [[16.30]] We are now deciding on points 2 and 4 to 8 of the summarised amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that two thirds of the Members of Parliament present are required for their adoption. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/3622/5. Point 2 and points 4 to 8 of the consolidated amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 138 votes in favour, 32 against and 22 abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 18 of the summary amendment, which requires a simple majority, to be put to a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/3622/5. Point 18 of the consolidated amendment proposal, which requires a simple majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the amendment point by 137 votes to 31, with 22 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/3622/5. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted further points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 31 against and 26 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/3622/7. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 138 votes in favour, 32 against and 22 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/3622/7. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 138 votes in favour, 30 against and 22 abstentions. Following up on certain questions concerning the organisation of the markets in agricultural products, the 2015 XCVII on producer organisations and interbranch organisations. T/5238 on the amendment of Act T/5238 on certain amendments to the Act relating to the establishment of the National Centre for Earth Affairs. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/5238/8. T/5238/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2, 3 and 4. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Zoltán Magyar and Ádám Steinmetz. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 131 against and without abstention. Amendment 3 is proposed by Zoltán Magyar and Ádám Steinmetz. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 55 votes in favour, 134 votes against and no abstentions. Amendment No 4 is proposed by MEP Zoltán Magyar. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 134 votes against and no abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5238/8. A summary amendment was proposed. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 162 votes to 25, with 5 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5238/10. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 139 votes in favour, 26 against and 27 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5238/10. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 139 votes in favour, 26 against and 27 abstentions. T/5166 on the settlement of the management of certain state-owned property in connection with the activities of the International Children's Rescue Service Hungarian Association. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/5166/7. T/5166/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 2, 3, 4, 7, 8 and 10 of this Regulation, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the parts requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5166/7. Point 2, 3, 4, 7, 8 and 10 of the consolidated amendment proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 138 votes to 15, with 38 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5166/7. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment, which required a simple majority, by 137 votes in favour, 14 against and 40 abstentions. [[16.40]] It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5166/9. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 138 votes in favour, 20 against and 34 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5166/9. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 138 votes in favour, 20 against and 34 abstentions. T/5241 on additional guarantees for the independence of administrative courts follows. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/5241/16. T/5241/17. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 3, 10 and 11. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Lóránt Keresztes and Erzsébet Schmuck. A qualified majority is required for maintenance. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 62 votes in favour, 129 against and without abstention. Amendment No 10 was proposed by Lóránt Keresztes and Erzsébet Schmuck. A qualified majority is required for maintenance. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 133 against and without abstentions. Amendment 11 is proposed by Lóránt Keresztes and Erzsébet Schmuck. A qualified majority is required for maintenance. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 134 votes against and no abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 2, 3 and 6, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the parts requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5241/16. Point 2, 3 and 6 of the consolidated amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 133 votes in favour, 39 against and 19 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5241/16. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment, which required a simple majority, by 134 votes in favour, 40 against and 18 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5241/19. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 133 votes in favour, 45 against and 13 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5241/19. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 45 against and 13 abstentions. The 2011 CCVI on the right of freedom of conscience and freedom of religion and the status of churches, religions and religious communities follows. T/5244 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the amendment of law. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/5244/7. and the summary report by T/5244/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rule is 48. Under paragraph 2 of Section T/524/7, the author is entitled "T/524/7." A separate vote was initiated on point 21 of the summary amendment proposal. First, we decide on the part of the summary amendment that requires a qualified majority, then on the points requested for a separate vote, then we decide on the further points of the summarised amendment proposal. We are now deciding on point 13 of the summarised amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of this will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/524/7. Point 13 of the consolidated amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 133 votes to 27, with 32 abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 21 of the summary amendment, which requires a simple majority, to be put to a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/524/7. Point 21 of the consolidated amendment proposal, which requires a simple majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not accept the amendment point without a vote, 159 votes against and 39 abstentions. [[Defiance from the pro-government ranks.]] We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/524/7. The points that require a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted further points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 133 votes to 27, with 32 abstentions. [[16.50]] In view of the fact that the Parliament has not just adopted all the points of the summarised amendment proposal, in the final vote we will decide on the text of the bill which has been amended with the agreed points of the summarised amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5244. The provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority by 132 votes in favour, 32 against and 26 abstentions. We now decide on the provisions of the amended bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5244. The provisions of the amended bill, which require a simple majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 32 against and 26 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of your decisions, thank you for your cooperation. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. We continue our work with interpellations, so please stay in the room. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats, and we will continue our work. After my fellow Members have taken their seats, we will continue our work with the interpellations. Dear Parliament, Tibor Bana, a representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:, How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: Very! A lot.]] In reply to the interpellation, Prime Minister László Trócsányi, Minister of Justice, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. At the request of Minister Pál Völner, State Secretary, he responds to the interpellation. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2019-04-01-132	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, On the Fidesz side and on the KDNP side, it was heard that the government's policy was very credible, but on the other hand, it can be seen that Viktor Orbán was still here during the vote on the family protection action plan, and Jobbik supported this proposal, but then the mob boss stormed off. [[An uproar in the pro-government ranks. You mean Dr. Bence Rétvári: Márton Gyöngyösi? Martin Gyöngyösi?]] "Unfortunately, you can't answer the question that concerns him personally...
u2019-04-01-133	Congressman, please.
u2019-04-01-134	...which concerns government theft. I see they're very loud on the Fidesz and KDNP side. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] The truth hurts you.
u2019-04-01-135	Congressman! I'm gonna count the time frame. Be nice. He's in Parliament...
u2019-04-01-136	That's right.
u2019-04-01-137	...and please choose your words accordingly.
u2019-04-01-138	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, I am in Parliament, and it is sad that many discredited and dishonest politicians are sitting here in Parliament. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Around you! Look around.]] A month ago, I told you about my interpellation on corruption, I talked about Hungary's accession to the European Public Prosecutor's Office, and I explained why it would be important to support the European Citizens' Initiative aimed at reducing the fraud of EU funds. At the same time, Mr.Pál Völner and I had a chat with State Secretary, who said that Hungary and the government are doing everything they can to fight corruption, working together in international organisations. Unfortunately, we can see, on the contrary, that whatever the signals OLAF is making, the Hungarian prosecution is covering for the government, covering for the thefts that appear at government level in our country, and in many cases it is more typical that the Hungarian taxpayers pay these penalties on the money of our fair countrymen. It's a disgrace! At the same time, it is important to add that the Hungarian government's relations with OLAF are not the only thing that is so wrong. In short, the Group of States Against Corruption: GRECO is starting to fill the gap, as the Hungarian government has been refusing to take meaningful steps to implement their anti-corruption recommendations for several years, and since 2015 we have been on a two-person list with White Hungary, since these two countries refuse to publish the corruption report of the organization to the public; all of this as a member of an organization in which Hungary was introduced in 1999 by Viktor Orbán. It is therefore important that our country joins the European Public Prosecutor's Office, and it is important that the European Citizens' Initiative, which aims to reduce the fraud of EU funds, is supported by as many people as possible; our experience in the European Parliament's election campaign events is positive. Our fellow countrymen would like to see corruption reduced, sinners held accountable, and it would not be typical that the government is completely shutting down and putting their own friends in a position, unlike giving money to health care, education and other important developments in our cities and villages. Dear Secretary of State, Why are they shutting down substantial international cooperation in the fight against corruption? [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Why do you not support the European Citizens' Initiative to reduce the theft of EU funds? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-04-01-139	State Secretary Pál Völner responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-04-01-140	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that your party president was a skinhead, and he was convicted in a criminal trial, so I don't understand these suggestions that he's trying to cover up on a subject that wasn't actually included in the interpellation. Hungary, we have repeatedly stated that it will not join the European Public Prosecutor's Office. There was also a vote on this, it was a voluntary issue of accession, and Hungary does not wish to restrict its sovereignty in this form. [[17.00]] It is very surprising to me that it is precisely the Jobbik representatives who would like to see more Brussels in this country, and that bureaucrats should take over here, so that they can intervene in our internal political relations, whether politically motivated or in some procedures. Obviously, you have been promised something that you will be properly positioned in such a case. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] The setting up of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, we have repeatedly said that it is not necessary, because we still have the framework, whether in Eurojust or in OLAF, where we can cooperate. The other issue that I have mentioned here several times in the speeches is that you are confusing criminal matters with accounting matters, which concern EU accounting rules. So, if some costs cannot be accounted for in the context of EU accounts, it alone does not mean a crime in Brussels or in our country, it is only political overtones that rule these matters. At the same time, in cases where it has turned into criminal proceedings, such as the metro scandal involving socialists, where they will still have to pay back tens of billions of forints to the Hungarian taxpayers, they do not reach your threshold and do not appreciate the results that we can bring in these cooperations. The second question is that those who are members of this European cooperation are members of this European Public Prosecutor's Office. You know very well that, for example, Denmark, Ireland, Sweden have rejected this type of EU prosecutorship. Interestingly, in their parliaments, these speeches do not speak, and there they know that sovereignty is also valuable, which must be protected, and there are no parties who worship Brussels, and they want to use all initiatives against the government without further adoration. If you look at the results of the fight against corruption, the current majority of governments have included in the basic law the responsible management of state assets [[Gergely Harvester: That's more like it!]] which resulted in a HUF 7000 billion increase in state assets between 2010 and 2017. I ask you, if your accusations were true, would these numbers be in the same form and not negative or much less so than before. [[György Szilágyi: And if they were not true, would Lőrinc Mészáros be just as rich?]] As regards the National Defence Service, which was set up in 2010, which, as an independent police body, effectively investigates corruption-related crimes, you can see this in the press several times, and is practically also involved in coordinating these tasks. Moreover, the Council's counter-terrorism coordinator said that in his view all Member States agree on the fight against cross-border terrorism, and it is therefore unclear to him why a structure should be chosen that does not involve all Member States. Therefore, this formation cannot be used in the fight against terrorism. On 19 September 2018, the European Citizens' Initiative "Customs of fraud, misuse of EU funds, implementation of decisions and better control of sanctions" was registered. Since September 2018, only 2,400 signatures have been collected against the required one million. These suggestions that you are making do not move the broad public in Europe. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-141	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman Tibor Bana if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-04-01-142	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, You are therefore afraid to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We are not afraid!]] Because if Hungary were part of this organization, many of you would be accounted for, and the same would be the case with an independent prosecutor's office. [[Bence Rétvári: Whose money were you campaigning with?]] The number of signatures, the number of signatures, the number of signatures, the number of signatures, the number of signatures on the booths. Otherwise, the government should take substantial steps to reduce corruption in our country. Why isn't this happening? That's because you want to serve the mafia network. All pro-government representatives will vote on whether they continue to support corruption, whether they continue to support the provision of Lőrinc Mészáros and other mobsters, and to make money for similar investments in the small railway on Felcsút, and if they vote in favour, they will say no to hospitals, schools, kindergartens, road development in Hungary. [[György Balla: That's a lie!]] , make money for villages, cities and Hungarian families. That's how they press the buttons. I don't accept that shameful answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-04-01-143	Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 116 votes in favour, 36 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Mr. Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: When and how does the government compensate those disabled pensioners whose care has been unduly reduced? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Korózs has the floor.
u2019-04-01-144	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, At midnight yesterday, the deadline set by the Constitutional Court for the government to settle the case of the disabled has expired. It is well-known to my fellow Members that there have been revolutionary changes in the matter of disability after 2012, since before that, citizens who have received disability pensions also received a kind of constitutional protection, and then two types of care, rehabilitation and disability care. However, these two forms of care did not have any constitutional guarantee. As a result, there were a large number of clients who turned partly to the Strasbourg court and partly to the Hungarian courts, and the Constitutional Court, by its decision of 6 November last year, found that there was a need for new legislation, since people who had received disability pensions prior to the change and who had not improved their condition, and many of them had even deteriorated, but were still receiving lower benefits for a certain percentage of the restructuring, or there were very many who had been deprived of their care. As a result, the Constitutional Court has taken the view that these provisions must be made and that they must be complied with, and I also believe that the Constitutional Court's question or decision should be taken on such matters. It is because the income of these people has fallen significantly, and many have lost it, as I said, their care and living conditions have deteriorated. From then on, as I mentioned, the two forms of care that could be given after 1 January 2012 are rehabilitation care or invalid care... in fact, they are a kind of victims, because they are also guilty of the measures taken by the government. In November last year, we submitted a proposal for a parliamentary decision, which, unfortunately, was rejected by the Fidesz majority in the Committee on Welfare, which would have authorised the government to take measures. The measures should have included the form of compensation for which we proposed, and as far as I know, civil society organisations have also represented it, so that clients who have suffered some form of disadvantage in the context of the restructuring will receive retroactively the amount that was taken from them in connection with the government's measure, together with its interest. Apologize to the people who have been hurt. In addition, allow the heirs to receive this compensation where the person died. I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-04-01-145	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-04-01-146	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Allow me to quote you from someone. He doesn't usually like it, but I do now, let me quote to Congressman Lajos Korózs from Secretary of State Lajos Korózs. I don't think I have to say it in front of the House, but I still do make it extremely high inactivity in Hungary. The employment rate is among the worst in the Member States of the European Union in Hungary, with an employment rate of about 57,6 percent at present. There's two very thoughtful data. You told me a few years ago. Imagine the fact that there are no 4 million employees in this country, and there are 806 thousand disabled people. Of course, someone can be disabled by not being an old man, and someone who can be disabled by not having reached retirement age, or someone who has reached retirement age, but who has been disabled a long time ago. But, my dear friends, I think it's also thoughtful that there are 806 thousand disabled people, and of which 460,000 are disabled under the retirement age. That's an awfully high number. You said it yourself. I would like to continue with the quote:. Of course, I know that in the years after the change of regime, a lot of people have fled into invalid retirement, but in the long run, there can be no perspective for a society that if there are fluctuations in the labour market, or because someone's knowledge cannot be converted, or because their health is somewhat reduced, the only escape route is that we are going to an invalid pension. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[17.10]] Not only did you say that, there were not only words like that from you, but from your current boss, Minister Erika Szűcs. What is the real expectation of society in the case of more than 400 000 disabled people? He told me. This expectation is clear: let those who are able to work and work, let there be more taxpayers, so that fewer taxes can provide a decent living for our fellow countrymen who are no longer helped by rehabilitation. It's our social agenda, not saving money. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Honourable Congressman, You have therefore set out the objectives for which you have now attacked legislation in the previous minutes. The Constitutional Court has two decisions. One examined the 2012 disability pension restructuring in relation to the constitutional property requirements. This is where the Constitutional Court stated in 2017 that it does not infringe the right to property guaranteed by the Fundamental Law, that an established benefit will be reviewed later, and that, if the situation of the person concerned has changed, they will change. This is the decision of the Constitutional Court of 3252/2017. There is another decision that measured the relevant Hungarian legislation in an international treaty. He said that the Parliament should carry out a legislative task arising from an international treaty. That's what he set the deadline for what you indicated. However, the content of this was not established by the Constitutional Court, and it did not indicate to the legislator exactly which direction, which rules, what regulatory content it should establish this legislation. So what you have said about any compensation or interest payment, of course, is not clear from the decision of the Constitutional Court, which you have not proposed, this is misleading on your part, and it is misleading precisely the parties involved. Honourable Congressman, You know that our goal is for as many people as possible to work. Fortunately, there are jobs in Hungary now, and we also contribute to this with unprecedented support for the disabled. This year we spend 42 billion forints on working for people with disabilities. While there were only 3,200 such employers in 2012, there are now 9100 such employers, so their number has increased nearly three times. While 5574 persons with disabilities were employed only in this way before the introduction of the rehabilitation card, after the changes in 2012, compared to 5574, 37 762 persons had a job. I believe that employment increased to 40 percent is an important success, and that we will continue to consult experts on the legislative amendment. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-04-01-147	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-04-01-148	Thank you. Dear House, I'll start over by not accepting your answer. Mr Secretary of State, the speech quoted by Mr Korózs 10-12 years ago can be taken up in every word. I'll take every word you say. This does not give you the right to deliver rapid solutions such as those introduced on 1 January 2012. This did not justify, nor did any of his sentences, taking care of people and reducing their care in such a way that drastic changes were made in their daily lives. In particular, conditions have not been created where such evidence could be clarified, even at a legislative level, when a person with a changed working ability could be considered rehabilitated. As long as these are not clarified, this answer simply cannot be accepted. Thank you very much.
u2019-04-01-149	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 115 votes in favour, 38 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Mr László Varju, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. How does the Government intend to meet the deadline set by the Constitutional Court to settle the situation of disabled pensioners? It's an address. Mr László Varju has the floor.
u2019-04-01-150	Thank you very much. Let's continue with what just started, because the Secretary of State didn't answer the very simple question as to why, after the Constitutional Court's decision, you would not do anything for the disabled pensioners.In 2015, you transformed the disability pension system by re-rating thousands of people who were healthy or less disabled on the basis of an arbitraryly invented criteria. They're victims of Fidesz austerity. Although your dictionary allegedly lacks that word, it is indisputably a reduction in the allowance of people with disabilities. You have, of course, justified all this by the necessary reduction of costs. In fact, this time they took money from defenseless and vulnerable people, so they could steal more. Many have lost tens of thousands of disabled pensions, but it was not uncommon to lose less than half. Do you know how many people in their despair committed suicide in this situation? Those who are still alive have lost their 12 free annual travel opportunities at MÁV, the lease payment, which has since been charged 6,000 HUF more per month for their lease. But in the same way, they lost their public health care support and the 6,000 forints drug subsidy. In addition, if they took up a job announced, they would lose their benefits in the same way. This could have caused millions of HUF damage to a disabled pensioner. With this measure being shameful, it is unnecessary to confront you, since you have long forgotten the meaning of the word shame. However, in the case of a disabled pensioner, as we have heard, the Constitutional Court stated that the amendments to the law of the majority of governments in 2011 that allowed it to do so did not meet the constitutional requirements. Minister of State, the current Hungarian government is responsible for all citizens, and it is not illegal to take away invalid pensions. You can't make people who are disabled by a law amendment, an arbitraryly fictional system of considerations, healthy. Therefore, the Government was obliged by the Parliament to settle this law-breaking situation by 31 March. The deadline expired yesterday, but we have not even seen any attempt on your part to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. I ask you, therefore, if you are willing to initiate the annulment of the constitutional breach of the disability system in 2011, to compensate those involved retroactively, and when the Government intends to implement the decision of the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much. I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2019-04-01-151	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-04-01-152	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think it is important to say once again that when the Constitutional Court looked at this law's alignment with the Fundamental Law, it found nothing wrong with it. In connection with an international treaty, he concluded that the government has an additional legislative obligation in Hungary because of the implementation of that international treaty. When I look at the style, honourable Member, how people with disabilities who had previously received disability benefits are in a position to give them employment opportunities. How did your prime minister, the president of your party, the husband of your EP leader, talk about them? He said if there's a scandal, it's [[Zsolt Gréczy: Anikó Lévai's husband just told me!]] that every third pensioner today has a disability pension, and every second of them are still active, whether working or working, could give meaning to his life. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: It would be better if the son of Győző Orbán answered that question!]] We have told these people that we are reviewing their state through declaration and other procedures, and we are helping those who may have a job opportunity. We're not telling him to take up a job, we're giving him a supported employment job, where employers get a significant tax and contribution allowance if they help these people get more income and work. We didn't say that what they were doing was a scandal. We didn't come to them with that style. As you approach us now, Ferenc Gyurcsány, your former prime minister, in the same style, has attacked the disabled, as if counting them. So, I think, honourable Member, it is not good to follow the example of Ferenc Gyurcsány in style. In 2012, we introduced a complex amendment that served a very wide range of tools to enable those who can work to have a job; we developed a complex rating with uniform medical, employment and social aspects, of course in order to create an insurance system. [[17.20]] This was the system that was lucky enough to raise employment levels along with the rehabilitation card from the previous low level of by far below 20 percent to 41.6 percent today. You put the Constitutional Court's decision on a very small part on a package of legislative amendments which, overall, has been able to increase the level of employment of these people more than double. If we abolished what you and Congressman Lajos Korózs demanded, these people would fall back into the world of aid again and live again on a very low amount of state aid instead of working now, rather than having a job that is not the last in terms of human dignity, and in terms of income, it is far above the former. Your proposal would move these people to passivity and return to aid. In the review, we sought to look at people with better health, so-called third group disability benefits or regular social benefits, who would have retired in more than five years' time, and we offered them more opportunities, with supported employment and occupational rehabilitation. 189 thousand have made a statement that they have asked for their complex qualifications and that the amount of their invalidity benefit compared to the amount of 31 December 2011 can only be less if the situation improves, honourable Member. And I would repeat to you that there is a very complicated task for the legislator here, and we have to do a task that I do not think anyone can easily say is that the degree of physical state change must be determined retroactively. So someone's health status has to be determined 2-3-4-5 years ago. It's not something you can work out overnight. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We are therefore working to keep these people in employment as high as possible, to have higher incomes, and here we are working on a serious but feasible proposal for a solution. [[The president's ringing again.]] The expert work is ongoing. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-153	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. I give the floor to the congressman for a rejoinder. Here you go.
u2019-04-01-154	Thank you very much. As long as the country is a member of the Union, the Hungarian Government is obliged to treat people as European citizens. We are European Hungarians and I speak for many of my fellow miners [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] If they need disability benefits, the Orbán system can't ignore this. They're not interested in your percentages, they're interested in being treated fairly. The fact is that the Orbán system has wiped out its own citizens; they should be ashamed of themselves who do this, and you who support it. Me and us as patriots worry about all Hungarians [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The ones you're stealing from, the ones you're taking away the opportunity from. This would not happen in the European United States (Moraj in the ranks of the governing parties). There, people are treated like humans. The fact that this is so true also shows that the Constitutional Court of your own party soldiers...
u2019-04-01-155	I'm waiting for an answer, Congressman.
u2019-04-01-156	...he didn't take it either. Secretary of State, your answer is unacceptable. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Your time has passed along with the Constitutional Court's decision. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-04-01-157	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Member did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 117 votes in favour, 35 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology: It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2019-04-01-158	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, It seems to be everyday news that the MÁV announced that trains run on the Debrecen-Füzesabony railway from 1 April to mid-December, and replacement buses transport passengers between Balmazújváros and the county seat. You might think they're upgrading the track, setting up more modern fittings, better and faster, making the service safer, but as it turns out, that's a naive assumption. There are different interests and drivers in the background, and there is no need to favour people travelling by rail to work, school, doctor or other purposes, even at the cost of temporary inconvenience. The real reason is that this is necessary because of the gravel and stone transports associated with the development of the northwest economic zone in Debrecen, where the BMW car factory in Debrecen is built. In 2018, Péter Szijjártó announced that the BMW factory was being built in Debrecen. The government declared this to be a priority investment from an economic point of view and decided on the purchase of 300 plot numbers for the investment. The lands here are worth 40 golden crowns; they are the best in Hungary. Owners with 280 hectares of land in the future factory indicated that they would continue farming, but this did not interest the government. Our best production areas are built into power. But the investor gets even more. For their sake, a new node is being built on M35, a section of road 33 is being expanded twice into two lanes, a single lane around the industrial site is being built twice, and the public logistics and container terminal in Debrecen is being built. To do this, they electrify the railway to the main line of Zahon. The economic zone will be fully supplied with electricity, gas, water and sewerage, telecommunications and the airport will be developed within two to three years. Mr. Secretary. When have they done so much in any region for the sake of the Hungarian people? What scale can you draw: how much costs, environmental waste, how many families will this announced thousand new jobs cost? How can people living in neighboring residential areas feel if they have an industrial area next door instead of a natural environment? Where can you find the analysis of the total cost of the national economy and the expected benefits? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2019-04-01-159	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-04-01-160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You question the positive effects of an important investment, for which many Central European countries have sought to obtain it, and you are against a development that is not only a city and the answer to its question, they are the Hungarian people and the Hungarian people as a whole, but they are also contributing to and contributing significantly to the economic recovery of an entire country. It must be said, of course, that such a scale of development, the construction of a plant, is no secret that it can be accompanied by a very significant increase in traffic and environmental burden. Therefore, in order to minimise this load to the minimum possible in the residential areas, the best solution for the inhabitants of the area should be as far as the investment is concerned, as is currently the case, so that up to 22,000 heavy goods vehicles can be exempted from the continuous transport of the area. Train replacement buses with almost unchanged driving time and comfort for passenger traffic will be available until the railway transport on the line in question is restored. Let us not forget that as part of the development, the electrification of railway line 108 has also taken place, so passengers will be able to use a much more modern railway service between Debrecen and Balmazújváros. At the same time, I would also like to say and thank you for bringing the subject of BMW investment into Parliament, so that we can talk about how development can contribute to the development of the national economy. The investment, as you said, will create directly a thousand jobs, which are expected to multiply, because in addition to BMW, suppliers will appear in the region, which will make additional investments and create additional jobs. This will also result in significant growth in the service sector, and the competition for labour will raise wages, as we have seen in Hungary in recent years. It can therefore be said that the investment will dynamic the economy throughout the whole city, in a broader sense as regards the catchment area as a whole. It is important to clarify that the areas needed for development have been designated beyond the motorway of the city in such a way as to change the natural landscape as little as possible and to add that the government has offered replacements and replacements to farmers wishing to continue farming in order to enable them to continue their activities. [[17 .30]] I must also reject your suggestion that the government would benefit the multinationals at the expense of anyone. Unlike you, we know that the backbone of the Hungarian economy is small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. The BMW investment decision is largely due to the fact that the Hungarian economy has a strong SME sector that provides an adequate background in terms of capacity and quality for a factory that is also remarkable at European level. The Hungarian government also contributed to this by creating a business-friendly regulatory environment, tax reductions, support programmes and facilitating lending. The aim is to further improve competitiveness and strengthen our businesses in the next period. To this end, the Government will develop a strategy setting out the objectives and activities of enterprise policy by 2030, including the SME strategy of the ITM. Government measures at the same time help create an internationally successful, dynamic entrepreneurial circle and many people [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] strengthening a wide range of SMEs and small businesses to ensure their livelihoods. Thank you very much for your attention. Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-04-01-161	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2019-04-01-162	The answer is simply unacceptable. Secretary of State, it has to be said that the SDS was as multi-friendly as you are. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches, among them: That's right!]] This dependence, which you have built with the automotive industry and the automotive industry, will be very costly. You are already talking about the prospect of a global economic crisis in the fall. What won't they buy from other countries? Car! So what are you gonna tell people? The other is, they're getting more and more into the hands of the multinationals. They are going to Brussels and lobbying for the interests of the German automotive industry despite the health of Hungarian people. Climate change is here, and we see the effects in Hungary. It's just unacceptable!
u2019-04-01-163	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 117 votes in favour, 29 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Sándor Burány, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:. What does the government do with the rising inflation? It's an address. Mr Sándor Burány has the floor.
u2019-04-01-164	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, In six years, seasonal and one-off inflation has not been this high. In particular, the increase in food prices has started in an amazing way, so slowly rewriting everything we have ever thought about the world. For example, in the last year, the price of potatoes increased by 76 percent according to the statistics of the KSH. What do you eat like that? What to eat if flour has increased by more than 10 percent, and bread has increased by almost 7 percent? ! Moreover, the price of bottled gas increased by more than 12 percent and the price of firewood increased by more than 8 percent. How much is this year's pension increase compared to this? Less than last year: only 2.7 percent. What's the family allowance this year? Zero percent. How much did they raise the kid this year? Zero percent. How much did they raise public workers' wages? Zero percent. How much has the minimum amount of the old-age pension been increased? Zero percent. How much has the minimum amount of orphanage been increased? Zero percent. Let us take a look at the public sector, ladies and gentlemen, where workers have rightly protested the government's policy with a strike. How much has the basic salary been raised in the public sector? Exactly zero percent. On the other hand, there is a minister whose salary has increased five times, and now it is more than HUF 5 million. State Secretary's wages increased by 30 percent last year, to nearly 1.3 million forints. They have little problem with the runaway inflation. Maybe you can afford potatoes. So what do we see? Increasing inflation, whose losers have not yet been compensated by the government. So I ask: what measures does the government intend to make up for high inflation for pensioners, public sector workers and all those who are increasingly struggling with high food prices? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2019-04-01-165	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary András Tállai, Deputy Minister, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor.
u2019-04-01-166	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It is quite difficult to take as credible and serious the words of an ex-Secretary of State who was a member of the MSZP government, the MSZP government, whose governance failed to preserve the real value of pensions. [[Peter Cseresnyés: That's right! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: You read the wrong paper! Péter Cseresnyés: Reads very good paper!]] It seems to me to be uncredited because, in addition to the fact that you could not keep the real value of pensions, even the 13th month pension was taken from pensioners, and you voted for it as the then pro-government representative. [[Moraj in the benches of opposition parties.]] It is very interesting to take account of the public sector's income situation in this government, as it was you who took away the 13th month's salary from the public sector. And it is difficult to take this seriously in a situation like when we look at economic data, then we can see that the Fidesz government has nothing to be ashamed of in this area. It has nothing to be ashamed of, since between 2010 and 18 the rate of the pension increase was 30 per cent, whereas inflation was 18 per cent, plus additional pension increases and compensation for pensioners. I think that it is uncredited to ask the government to account for you when the rate of inflation in 2018 was 2.8 per cent, while the average salary was 11,3 per cent, so it is clear that the population's income has increased significantly over the past few years, which we have no better than the increase in retail consumption, which was 6.6 per cent in the last year, and 5.6 per cent in the previous year, and this figure has always increased for five years. It is very interesting to observe the activities of you and your party in Parliament, because at a time when you could have helped the Hungarian people, for example, by reducing personal income tax, you have not voted once. At a time when the family tax reduction had to be increased here in Parliament, the tax relief for families with two and three children to get more into the register, you did not vote for it once. It is also very interesting that when, for example, a reduction in pig VAT had to be voted in favour, you also did not support the government proposal. Honourable Congressman, I do not think that your speech is correct in any other way. I'll give you an example: you've quoted the salaries of the secretary of state and the ministers, that the secretary of state has increased by 30 percent. I'm sorry, Congressman, but your salary has also increased as a representative, and has increased to a higher degree than that of the State Secretarys, because your income has increased by more than 30 percent. I accept that you want to be credible in the eyes of the little people, but you can't be credible either, because you forgot to add that my salary has also increased, and I can buy the potatoes. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: The potatoes are still very expensive. Eggs are even more expensive.]] Honourable Congressman, Looking back over recent years, I can say that pensions and family incomes, as well as the wages of public sector and competition workers, have also increased and exceeded prices, so the government has nothing to be ashamed of, and the government will continue to pursue this policy in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]]
u2019-04-01-167	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor. [[17.40]]
u2019-04-01-168	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. To be honest, if the Secretary of State had tried to give me a concrete answer to any of my questions, perhaps we could talk about this now. But he didn't answer any of my specific questions. You are talking about credibility issues, but it is difficult for you, Mr Secretary, to interpret very clear and simple questions that you should have answered here in front of Parliament, a few minutes after you personally voted off the opposition's amendment to increase the family allowance. Don't talk to me about credibility. I was the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance that introduced the 13th month pension. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: He took it!]] Because of the crisis, it had to be stopped. But have you ever introduced it? They always refer to it, but now, when you think the economy is soaring, they simply forget about it, even though they promised a 14th month pension increase at the time. Secretary of State, try to pull yourself together and answer specific questions at least once. Your answer is unacceptable. Thank you very much.
u2019-04-01-169	Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament if it will be accepted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 114 votes in favour, 30 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Gyula Budai, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice in what way... [[Noise in DK's ranks.]] Congresswoman, if I don't disturb you... [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I don't care!]] Thank you for your understanding. You're very kind. So, what is the state's way of dealing with another corruption case involving Balliberals? It's an address. Congressman Gyula Budai has the floor.
u2019-04-01-170	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In recent years, serious abuses during Balliberal governance have been constantly exposed. Let us recall some of these. Here's the metro 4 case, which is the biggest corruption scandal of all time. Then there is the case concerning the EMIR IT system, where the Hungarian state is under a debt of HUF 18 billion, and the family company of the Gyurcsány family is also involved in this matter. But in this context, we can also mention the case of the Sukoro site exchange, and let us not forget the financial fraud of Csaba Czeglédy, the lawyer of MSZP and DK, where students and elderly people were harmed in addition to the state. There's no part of the country where Balliberal crime didn't come up. Szeged is no exception. The deputy mayor and chief of staff of Mayor László Botka has been convicted by the court of abuse of VIP parking spaces. And here is the new case in Szeged, the Szeviép case, where the leaders of László Botka's court supplier treated the company as a private bank and borrowed funds for which they did not actually have enough collateral. So the company went bankrupt, over 400 families were destroyed, and the damage caused was approximately HUF 11 billion. In this case, the court sentenced the three leaders of Seviép to prison in the first instance, including István Ujhelyi's current Socialist MEP, László Pistrui, and Sándor Baranyi, Head of Szevíp for six years. Baranyi said that, before 2010, under the Balliberal governments, the main contractor for large investments could only be the one who had political connections and who was dragging money back there. He also said that István Ujhelyi's house was renovated for nearly HUF 30-40 million, and in return István Ujhelyi's socialist politician promised to give the company significant economic orders. And let us not forget that István Ujhelyi takes the second place in the European Parliament list of MSZP-Palogue. As we can see, Mr Secretary of State, corruption scandals affecting Balliberians are pouring through public life. Secretary of State, I'm asking you how the state can deal with another corruption case involving Balliberal circles. Thank you for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Agnes Vadai: Bravo!]]
u2019-04-01-171	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Pál Völner responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-04-01-172	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to say that the Hungarian legal system provides the right means to deal with abuses. Nevertheless, it is a shame that the socialists have not been able to lie to themselves in several decades, proving with new and more embarrassing cases that they have only worked and worked to harm the country. Their scandal around Seviép has once again demonstrated that they are even unworthy of the confidence of the voters in Szeged. The story of the renovation of the house of István Ujhelyi, which will only add to the lies we hear about them, is another development of their embarrassing cause. Unfortunately, socialist scandals are not surprising from time to time. Without completeness, I would mention only as an example Csaba Czeglédy, the related Klára Dobrev Altus contribution, the dispersal of metro money, Miklós Hagyó, Ferenc Gyurcsány, who is guilty of the crimes of misappropriation and misappropriation, to say a few words about DK, as well as the Sukoro case, where the perpetrators have already served the final punishments. They also prove that the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office is doing its job well and that it allows such abuse to come to light. The leaders of Szeviép, István Ujhelyi and László Botka, were sentenced to 5 years and 2 months in prison due to a qualified bankruptcy in Szeged. According to the information from the construction company, the socialists simply stole the money, and according to the press, this totaled 443 families, with a total of HUF 10 billion. Without a realistic chance of repayment, loans were granted to companies with liquidity problems, including István Ujhelyi's former driver in the meantime, who had been taken care of, of course, since he manages the airport at the Transport Company in Szeged, i.e. the local government led by Botka. According to press information, the leader of the Seviép Construction Company also declared that this HUF 30-40 million was actually spent on Ujhelyi's house, in exchange for the socialist politician's promise of busy orders. These were not detailed, but a certain amount of half a billion was also mentioned, which was merely a withholding complaint in the order series. It's very unfortunate that this happened, but obviously whoever did this knows what he's talking about, because he was a close witness and a perpetrator of these cases. It is also possible, of course, that this renovation was not carried out directly by Seviép, but by another company, but I think these are specific issues regarding the crime. Unfortunately, there is no accounting for Ujhelyi in the same way as for Zuschlag or Gábor Simon. Since then, you still owe me bills, you owe me the story of how the building complex on your property was built and reported by the press. The Szegedians were so comfortable that they had already given out, for example, parking spaces in Szeged, which also resulted in criminal proceedings and final judgments, and the local government's leading circles were included in this crime. I'm sure they're used to dealing with matters like this during their administration, because at the time, these arrests weren't regular. Maybe it's just the Zuschlag case as a white raven. But not only the politicians, but the Balliberal press also ignores the laws, since last time another press item was attacked because they had a witness on the case. They protect the guilty, along with the socialists. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-173	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask Congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2019-04-01-174	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Looks like the guy on the other side is yelling at the guy whose house is on fire. Look at the EU list of DK and the MSZP. DK is led by the Dobrev Klára, whose case the investigating authority investigates in Altus' loan transactions. On the party list of the MSZP, the person in Ujhely, who turned out to have handed over 30-40 million HUF in the Sevíép case, is listed in the second place. The left is woven into corruption cases. In relation to left-wing scandals, neither DK nor the MSZP provided any specific answers. [[Noise in DK's ranks.]] Thank you very much, Mr Secretary, I accept your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-175	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, János Stummer, a representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance with the title "Hungarian quota for Hungary." Mr János Stummer has the floor. [[17.50]]
u2019-04-01-176	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, The city is full of Ukrainian migrant workers in Vácon, Mr. Secretary of State of Rétvár's constituency. They live not only in the workers' hostels, but also in mass apartments, often even the most basic and basic rules of community co-existence are not respected. As a result, Vácon continued to complain to the public. They now carry the Serbs from across the border with buses to the deep-kút wing factory, rather than paying the Hungarians fairly. Mr Bányai, Member of Parliament of the region, has also heard of this story. In Sárvár, Ukrainian migrant workers appearing in the city for thousands cause public order issues. They're drunk harassing young girls, even stealing fish from the boating pond. But I'm sure our fellow Member Péter Agh could tell us more about this if he wanted to. In my Komárno, the locals are talking about an invasion, on the street, on the bus, in front of shopping malls and tobacco shops it is almost impossible to hear a Hungarian word. Foreign migrant workers also bring home more money for the same work as Hungarians. All in front of Congresswoman Judit Czunyiné Bertalan. But as I'm sure you have information about the elemental outrage of Tokodaltáron building a worker's hostel in the neighborhood of the school, as well as the fact that Szarvason's recently closed iron building is about to do something similar. And these are just a few examples, but these stories could be mentioned for a long time, how your established economic immigrants forced Hungarian family fathers and family mothers out of their workplaces. Because even though they deny or claim otherwise, your guest workers do work in the place of Hungarian refugees abroad. I am asking you now to protect Hungarian workers and Hungarian families. I ask you to push companies operating in Hungary to solve the problems caused by labour shortages, not with cheap labour imported from the East, but also with decent wages paid to Hungarians by European standards. Vote tomorrow that at least 9 of the 10 Hungarian citizens will be Hungarian citizens in every 10 employees' jobs in Hungary in the future, while these companies will teach their foreign employees at least the basic language exam level in Hungarian. Don't deny the truth. Stand by our cause so that those economic immigrants who come to Hungary cannot take away the work of Hungarians. Do you support the Hungarian quota, Mr State Secretary? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-04-01-177	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Sándor Bodó responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-04-01-178	Thank you very much. Mr President, Fellow Members! Dear House, Well, I would like to expand the knowledge of the Member with some specific data and process. In Hungary, the term migrant worker is usually understood as a third-country foreign worker who can stay in the country for up to two years with a residence permit and a work permit. In addition, as a result of our EU membership, we have the right of free movement and residence for EU citizens, which means they can live and work here among us. Based on data from the Immigration and Asylum Office, in 2018, employers reported more than 30,000 foreigners to the employment agencies of government agencies, and administrative authorities issued 11 thousand work permits. If we look at the counties or settlements you mentioned in detail, we can see that you have used significantly excessive numbers. With the exception of the county of Pest, the total number of licences issued and the number of notifications does not exceed 1500 in any county, but in Békés county, for example, it was less than a thousand. The Hungarian labour market is also protected by a quota signed by the Minister, which is far from being exploited by domestic businesses. On this basis, I would like to inform you that in 2018 the highest number of third-country nationals who could be employed at the same time in Hungary was maximized in 55,000 people, and, as I mentioned, the number of permits issued was 11 thousand. Third-country nationals, and this is a very important rule, because they can only be employed in Hungary if the National Employment Service is not able to transfer Hungarian or EU citizens to the given position. I therefore stress that the employment of foreigners in Hungary is not unlimited, either in time or in terms of job or other conditions. The aim of the employment of foreign nationals is to alleviate potential labour shortages, not to keep wages low. The latest employment data published by the Hungarian Central Statistical Office does not indicate that foreign workers would push out Hungarian citizens. The average number of employees was 4 million and 497,000, which was 56,000 more than a year ago. The employment rate of 15-64-year-olds increased to nearly 70 percent, while the unemployment rate was 3.6 percent. Your proposal for the introduction of the so-called Hungarian quota is not only unconstitutional, but also goes against all EU legislation ensuring the right of free movement and residence. The Fundamental Law states that Hungary's economy is based on value-generating work and the freedom of business. The employer may decide, on the basis of the principle of freedom of the undertaking, which national worker he will have to carry out his activity. Under the amendment of the law, the employer's freedom of business laid down in the Fundamental Law would be restricted by this proposal if it required the nationality of the worker to be employed. In addition, as a member of the European Union, Hungary is also obliged to comply with the labour and migration directives in force in the EU. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-04-01-179	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'm asking Congressman if he'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-04-01-180	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, Secretary of State, it seems that this discussion will be about expanding each other's knowledge. I have such knowledge of the country that, in the immediate vicinity of multinational companies, the working hostels are full of Ukrainians and who knows what other national foreign migrant workers are. I have the knowledge to renovate barracks and other unused buildings, build container cities for them, so that they can put them somewhere. And for those who do not have enough space in the working hostels, nor in the barracks, in the container cities, they move in with eights and tens into the family houses that were previously built by Hungarian families and then left to themselves out of necessity. Mr. Secretary. I'm asking you to refresh the knowledge you've given me to answer this question. I don't accept your answer. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-04-01-181	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 113 votes in favour, 30 against, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, Attila Móring József, representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. How can EU agricultural subsidies linked to production be protected? It's an address. Mr Attila Móring József, notary of the Parliament, is the subject of the vote.
u2019-04-01-182	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, At the last meeting of the Agriculture and Fisheries Council in Brussels, Hungary requested in a declaration that production-related agricultural subsidies should remain at least at the current level in the period after 2020 or, if possible, increase. On the other hand, the Commission proposes to reduce the current direct support framework for Hungary from 13+2 per cent to 10+2 per cent. The production-related aid scheme typically provides additional support for some difficult sector, so it is an important question of what will be the size of the aid in the future and to which sectors it will be granted. This direct form of payment is used by Member States when it is important to preserve the competitiveness or viability of the sector. It is in Hungary's interest to broaden the scope of the aid, since there may be situations which may justify the inclusion of new sectors. [[18.00]] In addition, Hungary is interested in adopting a new common agricultural policy through which Hungarian farmers can apply and receive the subsidies they deserve as easily as possible. Dear Minister, The Christian Democratic People's Party supports the government's efforts to ensure that Hungarian farmers do not receive less support during the next budgetary period of the Union. This should not happen either for agricultural policy reasons, nor because, for example, the transfer of funds would support migration in Brussels. It is in our common interest to support the Hungarian agricultural economy, to protect the livelihood of its workers and the Hungarian agricultural land, thereby preventing an unjustified increase in food prices. However, this could be the result of the EU's plans. In addition, at a time when the agricultural economy contributed EUR 2.9 billion to last year's foreign trade surplus of EUR 5.6 billion. Investments in agriculture were able to continue to grow again in 2018, with a share of 4.1 percent of national investment. The stable financial background, the increasing profitability of production, has helped and constantly helped to increase investments in agriculture so important to the national economy. On this basis, I ask Mr Minister, how and by what means EU funds for Hungarian farmers can be protected. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-04-01-183	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Minister István Nagy responds to the interpellation. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. [[It's constant noise.]]
u2019-04-01-184	Mr President, Dear House, My dear fellow Member, As you know, at the meeting of the Agriculture and Fisheries Council on 18 March in Brussels, Hungary requested, in a joint declaration with Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Latvia, Slovakia and Slovenia, to maintain or even increase production-related subsidies at least at the current level. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] the period after 2020. Joint action by the seven countries was necessary because the Commission's proposal to reform the common agricultural policy represents a step backwards compared to the current level of support for production-related items. Currently, a total of 15% of the total direct payments can be paid to domestic farmers in connection with the production and keeping of certain crops. On the basis of the Commission's proposal, however, the amount of coupled subsidies would be reduced to 10+2% of the direct support for Hungary. I would like to stress that the system of coupled subsidies is a key instrument for Hungary. The item has already been effective in helping producers in the sectors concerned and has been able to substantially alleviate their burden. Maintaining this kind of title is essential for the proper financing and competitiveness of labour-intensive sectors such as livestock or gardening. These sectors have been given priority not only now but also earlier. This is why, for example, the special milk premium, depending on the actual production results, was introduced prior to the current scheme, but I could also mention the fruit and vegetable or ruminant structure conversion programme. As the aid items which assess real results, depending on the level of actual production, are of crucial importance for domestic producers, the preservation of these items and at least the maintenance of the current level of aid is a priority for agriculture. That is why we have been able to fully support the initiative and the increase in the share of the budget for associated aid. However, it is also important to see that, since the production-related aid scheme provides for additional support for a sector with significant difficulties, there is also the need to expand the sectors concerned. In this respect, Hungary is seeking to broaden the range of sectors involved in coupled support, which would help to improve the situation of the non-subsidised sectors. We therefore continue to consider it very important that, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, more flexibility is given to Member States in defining the sectors involved in coupled support and that the sectors concerned can be expanded in relation to the Commission's initial proposal. In view of this, it is also necessary to stress that Hungary is interested in adopting a common, new agricultural policy that enables domestic producers to apply and receive the aid they deserve as easily as possible. At the same time, it must continue to be ensured that all sectors in difficulty receive substantial support. However, in order to achieve these, the Commission's proposal needs to be substantially amended, which we will also represent at a further stage in the CAP negotiations. That is why we need the economic society to join forces and that the petition that we launched together with the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy is signed by as many people as possible. I would like to point out to this House that 146.5 thousand people have signed this petition this morning, as is the case this morning. This indicates the interest of farmers, the strength behind this support. It also indicates the interest and the intention to protect and protect this support, it cannot be allowed that the euro cents of the common agricultural policy serve a different purpose than agricultural policy. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It cannot be used for migration purposes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-04-01-185	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman if he'll take the minister's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-04-01-186	Thank you very much for your answer, Minister, and I trust that in the budget cycle 2021-2027 we will succeed in ensuring that agricultural subsidies are not reduced, especially because in the proposal for future rules on the common agricultural policy, the European Commission has set higher requirements for farmers than ever before, which, in our view, cannot be accepted together with the proposed reduction in resources, is not feasible. I respectfully accept your reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-04-01-187	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, It's 6:06 p.m., and we've reached the end of the interpellation trial. Now we're going to talk about immediate questions. [[Several Members leave the room. Noise.]] I would like to ask my fellow Members, who are leaving this room because of an urgent engagement, to do so quietly. [[A moment's pause.]] Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How long can the legalized loan shark work in Hungary? It's an address. Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Prime Minister for his answer personally. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: I accept, thank you.]] Congressman, you have the floor. [[Noise.]]
u2019-04-01-188	Mr President, Dear House, Although the title of my question turned out to be a question of foreign exchange credit damage, I still see that [[The president's ringing the bell.]] My fellow government representatives prefer to pick up and talk instead of having a sensible, intelligent debate about it. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Where is the leader of the faction?]] How, though, they thought to set fair family policy goals in a social cataclysm, in a social disaster where over a period of more than three years, members of some 10,000 families were forced to leave their homes and homes, largely on the basis of debts that came together without their own fault. And I'd like to tell you that when we're right behind us, our friend, our friend, our friend, is sitting. [[András Tállai: One piece? Dr. Bence Rétvári: Is that Varga-Damm?]] [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Where is the leader of the faction?]] How, though, they thought to set fair family policy goals in a social cataclysm, in a social disaster where over a period of more than three years, members of some 10,000 families were forced to leave their homes and homes, largely on the basis of debts that came together without their own fault. And I would like to tell you that when we have our friend, who is a foreign exchange loan victim behind us, our friends are sitting (András Tállai: A piece? Dr. Bence Rétvári: Is it Varga-Damm?) And we get confirmation of the fight we're conducting for them, then you'd have a dog duty too (Dr. Bence Rétvári: Where's the leader of the faction?) not only to pay attention to all of this, but also to provide meaningful answers. And I'm sure you shouldn't laugh, Mr. Secretary, because there's a lot of shame in your head for the way you're acting. [[Intruder from Jobbik's benches: That's right!]] And I have to tell you, with regard to executives, we are experiencing systemic excesses... I would recommend to the Secretary of State that we are able to bring concrete case studies with a mass of people, where they are already seeking to recover reimbursable claims, two enforcement teams are trying to impose the same debt on those affected, that, in fact, it is due to the strong standing of civilians that some illegal evictions have been prevented. That is why I say to Mr Secretary of State that if they think that they are setting fair demographic, fair family policy goals, this social cataclysm situation cannot remain so. In terms of hundreds of thousands of foreign exchange loan victims, if only ten thousand of their desired children could not have been born in the last decade, it also has an amazing negative impact on the people's souls and on the Hungarian society as a whole. Therefore, I demand that we maintain the eviction moratorium until then. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] until this problem is solved. I look forward to your substantive response on how open you are to this point. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. Interjection from the same place: That's right!]]
u2019-04-01-189	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2019-04-01-190	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Of course, your question has not yet completely lost its topicality, but it is late enough that if we had heard this question eight years ago, we could all have said that one of the biggest social problems in Hungary, or perhaps the biggest social problem, is the quite amazing number and extent of foreign exchange credit contracts. [[18.10]] We know that in 2010, when the civilian government took office, there were over one million loans in foreign currency. It is also well known by the National Assembly, because in the last eight years we have adopted countless laws to resolve this issue and to alleviate problems, that both the final repayment, the incorporation of both the asset manager and the mansion decision and the conversion of loans into forints, and the enforcement of the related damages to banks have contributed to the fact that today, as you have mentioned, the issue of foreign exchange credit contracts above million has spread to a few ten thousand people. Of course, all reasonable points must be considered, but I would like to make it clear that we were not the ones who allowed Hungarian voters to be owed not only in a foreign currency, but in a foreign currency that we never wanted to introduce, because, in order to avoid any confusion, 90 percent of foreign currency credit contracts were not even in euro, but in Swiss francs. The fact is that those who have allowed this to happen, and have made it possible in bulk, are preparing for a political alliance with them; above all, it should be accounted for. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-191	Thank you very much, Minister. In return, I'll give the floor to the congressman in a minute.
u2019-04-01-192	Mr President, Dear House, Shame on you, Minister. [[Uproar, interrogation from the pro-government benches.]] Shame on you that you're working together while we're the ones fighting executives, trying to prevent eviction. You're the ones who made a deal with the EBRD, made a deal with the Banking League. Are you the ones who allow these amazing executors to overdo us and lecture us? Minister, put your hands on your heart: do you think more than 10,000 evictions are compatible with family policy goals? Honestly. The address of the next such event will be sent to you at your parliamentary e-mail address, please come with me. Absolutely undisturbed. I will not be political with you, because there is no right- or left-wing injured Hungarian man in distress, they have no duty to stand there for you. I want you to see a situation like this up close, if you feel that these people are scared, need help, and you need this help by making a deal with the banks, sabotaging it, instead of using it, forinting at the market rate. I'm telling you once again, you've agreed with the Banking League instead of the people, so don't lecture us. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Come with me to the next eviction.
u2019-04-01-193	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás in return. Here you go.
u2019-04-01-194	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My request to Congressman is not to deceive Parliament with false data and numbers. It is true that there are tens of thousands of enforcement cases, but eviction cases have not occurred in this number. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea from Jobbik's expert box.]] enforcement proceedings, where appropriate, are subject to a legal remedy. Such an appeal should also be made. In this case, the legal procedure or even the complaint against the unlawful enforcement procedure will be fully supported, and those involved will otherwise be honored, but the social tragedy that your new allies left behind in 2010 [[A great uproar in the ranks of Jobbik, constant interruptions from the opposition, including: What are you talking about? You've been steering for nine years! The president's ringing the bell.]] We've managed to stop it after all. And we were able to avert it because we didn't listen to you, but the Parliament adopted laws that have reduced the mass of over one million social circles to well below 100,000 people today. [[Constant interruptions from both sides. The president's ringing the bell.]] And these are matters that the government is dealing with. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-195	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I would ask my fellow Member in the box not to yell at me now, but to take his place. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea from Jobbik's expert box:]] Congresswoman, you have no right to yell from there. Take your seat. Dear Parliament, Before a separate debate is initiated, Member Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: . The invalid is no longer human? It's an address. Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, has appointed a response to the urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yes, Congressman, you have the floor.
u2019-04-01-196	Thank you. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the interpellation series, I have already pointed out that the deadline for the government to remedy the legislation that had been passed before 2012 has expired at midnight. The Constitutional Court, I would like to state precisely, concluded that the government's measures had adversely affected persons who had already received an invalidity pension before 1 January 2012, by amending their pension plan at the statutory level. With this, the government is known to have taken acquired rights and violated acquired rights. The unlawfulness was caused by the fact that the amount of benefit was not taken into account when determining the actual physical state of life, and that the reduction of benefits was based solely on changes in the percentage values used to determine the health status. In many cases, as I referred to, it was more of a deterioration, but they reduced the supply of a large number of people. That is why I ask Minister: when will the bill to which the Constitutional Court has ordered you be submitted? I mean, that deadline expired at midnight yesterday. In addition, I would like to ask Minister: have civil society organisations been involved in representing stakeholders and protecting their interests? I also ask Minister how many people are affected by the Constitutional Court decision. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2019-04-01-197	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2019-04-01-198	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In its decision in 2017, the Constitutional Court made it quite clear that the right to property enshrined in the Fundamental Law does not mean that a review of the once established benefit would not be possible and could not be changed depending on the state of the person concerned. I would only like to say this because, although the Constitutional Court called on Parliament to carry out its legislative task on 31 March, this is not an accurate interpretation, which concerns destruction. The Ministry of Justice is working on the necessary presentation, and the Constitutional Court does not have to comply with its very clear judgment at all points in our view. I would also like to add that the government has, however, achieved significant results in this area since 2010-11, especially in relation to the period when it was a socialist government and 800 000 people were receiving disability pensions and various invalidity benefits. Today we can say that the employment rate of people with disabilities increased from 18% in 2010 to 41,6 percent last year. So this government has done a great deal to give real work, opportunity and opportunity to those who need it, just the most needy, and if, and if, mistakes made in the assessment of the review have to be corrected by legislation and I accept that this interpretation of the Constitutional Court's decision is correct, then the government will do so. Since the Constitutional Court's decision is not black and white and is far from clear, it is due to this that the Government has not yet complied with its legislative obligation. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-199	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2019-04-01-200	I hear you, I don't understand, Minister. The deadline has been nearly a half year for you to submit this draft legislation to the Parliament, which is one of the things. The other, there is one other case, because I have not once debated that a government does not have the right to transform or make changes to the system of disability care, but here the Constitutional Court has made it clear that a significant part of the clients had a worsening condition, at least they did not have an improvement, however they reduced or lost their care. So that should be a clear answer here. I repeat my question; the parliamentary committee made it clear when it put on the agenda the proposal for a parliamentary resolution which would have made a detailed list of what the government was supposed to do, and we should have only gone through it, Minister, and then we would have talked about a law that had already been passed here. Thank you very much. [[18.20]]
u2019-04-01-201	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. You have the floor, Minister.
u2019-04-01-202	The Commission's draft decision that has not been adopted will be used in the legislative process. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-203	Thank you very much for the Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, Imre László, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Why must 80 young children die? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-04-01-204	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Secretary of State, you denied 4 billion forints a year to save the lives of children suffering from muscle dystrophy of the spinal cord with immense cynicism and arrogance the other day. I would like to inform you that since 2017, there has been a drug that prevents the disease from progressing, and the development of gene therapy encourages it to be an effective cure within a few years. It is therefore absolutely true for these children that those who gain time gain life. You, on the other hand, have been pushing a button to deny life to children who can no longer wait for an effective cure to be developed. I admit that the development of medicine poses a serious problem for health funding. However, there is one point where there can be no question of whether it is European or, if you prefer, what a Christian does, and this is the saving of human life, especially the lives of innocent little children. It's not patriotism to set a target premiere for the birth of children. Patriotism also involves creating an opportunity to raise them in health. Have you ever looked into the eyes of young children, perhaps their own children, their grandchildren, with a pure world of sincere faith and hope? Well, that faith and hope have now been taken away not only from the fallible little children, but also from their parents. My question, Mr. Secretary: when will you behave like a Christian and provide the necessary therapy? Thank you. [[Applause in the lines of DK, MSZP, LMP and Dialogue.]]
u2019-04-01-205	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-04-01-206	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Everyone can decide what they base their political use on or what they're trying to capitalise on. Mr President, what you have done here in the last two minutes may not be the highest school in the search for political popularity. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties. Erzsébet Schmuck: Why? Are you insured?]] The government is trying to help all families, which is why we have significantly increased the budgetary framework available in the budget in which people can be treated with high value, high-value, very expensive medicines for rare diseases. [[Zsolt Gréczy: This is embarrassing!]] This was 3.8 billion forints in 2015 and now it has increased to 9.3 billion forints. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: What about these children? Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] This may have been the beginning of the treatment of 38 children with the disease you mentioned from 1.2 billion forints. In each case, there is a need for a separate medical examiner's opinion as to whether this cure is suitable for children, whether there are other reasons for exclusion, not only because the treatment cost is 175 million/year, but also because you did not mention it, but the European Medicines Authority has required the manufacturer to carry out additional efficacy tests, because the European Medicines Authority is not as convinced of the effectiveness of this as you have said, honourable Member, in recent minutes. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Sick children...]] Our aim is to ensure that Hungarian patients, children, adults and older people receive the most modern treatments as soon as possible. For this reason, in the case of the disease you mentioned, the Hungarian Government, among the first, made possible from March 2018 what you spoke about here only in 2019, honourable Member. The government moved a year earlier than you spoke of any proposal. As you know, you always have to make an individual decision to prescribe each medicine, because it can have effects in a very difficult state of health that is not anticipated, and therefore doctors are constantly monitoring their health, whether their health is deteriorating or stable. You mentioned that this does not mean healing, only stabilizing the condition for now. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-207	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-04-01-208	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, that's the difference between you and me, Mr. Secretary: I'm a doctor and you're a lawyer; I know how to do it, but you're not. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: For this? For this cure?]] There's 1.2 billion forints on this budget. It's not enough! Let me tell you that all patients in Romania, Slovakia and Poland are not granted the medicine on an individual basis. And let me add: it is 4.1 billion forints, which was tabled by my fellow Member, Mr Rig. 4.1 billion! At the end of last year, you scattered 72 billion forints to foreign and domestic sports associations and churches. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: Shame!]] I believe that Jesus would be very pleased if 4 billion of this amount were spent saving the lives of these little children. Unacceptable! [[Applause in the lines of DK, MSZP, LMP and Dialogue.]]
u2019-04-01-209	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-04-01-210	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, I didn't know you considered yourself an expert in the rarest diseases. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] I think it is more worthwhile that there are medical committees that we have set up to provide the best possible therapy for every child and every patient who suffers from a rare disease. You may be very good at a lot of things, but it may not be Parliament that can best decide the circumstances of the treatment of individual children. Honourable Congressman, Are you talking about helping children, supporting children, when it was your government that shut down Schöpf-Merei Hospital, honourable Member? [[Zsolt Gréczy: Shame on you!]] Then you're trying to make yourself look like a protector of the children. It was this hospital, which focused on the case of problematic pregnant mothers and fetus, children, genetic testing of malformations. [[Márta Demeter interrupts.]] This is where incubators were first placed in Hungary. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties. The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This incubator, until you closed this hospital, saved 23 Hungarian babies' lives, not one ever since. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2019-04-01-211	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Szabó Timea, representative of the Dialogue, immediate question... [[For signal:]] Please understand, I'm sorry. Maybe you've had two cards held together by accident, and that's happened to me, too. I don't mean to, I suppose you'll accept that. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "When does the government intend to take substantial steps to curb climate change and its negative effects? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Gergely Gulyás Prime Minister's Head of the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I ask Mrs. Congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2019-04-01-212	Thank you very much. I'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2019-04-01-213	I would like to inform you, Congresswoman, that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the President of the National Bank of Hungary an immediate question: It's an address. The President of the Hungarian National Bank appointed Mr.István Nagy as Vice-President for his response because of an urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman whether she accepts the person who is responding, or whether she is asking Mr President for the answer personally.
u2019-04-01-214	Thank you, Mr. President. The reason I do not accept the person of the respondents is because the decision of the NHB Bank has already been able to damage taxpayers by 7 billion forints...
u2019-04-01-215	Congresswoman, I asked for your answer...
u2019-04-01-216	I believe that the President of the Central Bank... [[The president's gonna turn off the speaker's mic.]] But you'll have to come to Parliament in person...
u2019-04-01-217	Congresswoman, yes or no? [[For signal:]] He won't take it. Thank you very much. You don't have a chance to speak now. Thank you. [[18.30]] Dear Parliament, One second, please. We'll have another speaker right away. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. When will the government resolve the crisis of care? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to answer the question because of his urgent public mission. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2019-04-01-218	I accept, yes.
u2019-04-01-219	Yes, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-04-01-220	Thank you very much. The negotiations between the social sector and the government are ongoing. Today, in Hungary, a medical educator earns 130 thousand forints, and today in Hungary, in many cases the assistant nurse in social institutions has less salary than the driver. The fact is that this sector has not received any significant wage increases in the last nine years; the statistics that Mr Secretary of State is going to say about 130 per cent are all related to a bonus, not to the basic wage. We claim that Hungary will not be strong until 84 people with disabilities have two auxiliary nurses in one shift; Hungary will not be strong as long as they work in Güssing and other places in Austria with nurses, nurses, nurses and conduktors out of the western border, that there is nothing else to see except a Hungarian name tag. The reason for this, you know, is that if a nurse is going to work in Güssing today, let's say she makes more money than the head of the institution in Hungary compared to an institution in Vas county. This is what the Hungarian government has not been able to solve for 10 years. I ask you now that you continue to negotiate with the social sector, unite on a degree basis, make the three pay tables interoperable, increase the basic wage by at least 50 percent, and finally make sure that you do not leave this sector, which will become increasingly important in an ageing society, but come. The fact is that today, in Hungary, the degree of a man who, let's say, works somewhere in an old people's home is different from the same person with the same degree who works in a medical institution in the dementia department. There is simply no explanation, no justification for why the social sector's wages are still so low today, and I call for a significant increase in the wages of workers in the social sector during the negotiations. Thank you very much.
u2019-04-01-221	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-04-01-222	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In recent years, we have also sought to make more money for teachers, doctors, nurses and social workers, and to move forward year after year. In 2014, we first introduced a sectoral wage supplement, then the following year a sectoral wage supplement, which you know very well, and then we continued to increase our incomes with a combined wage supplement. Obviously, many of us have also had a large increase in the minimum wage for skilled workers, so we can also talk about an increase in income of around 60 percent overall in the social sphere. Why is what you're saying dangerous? If we had complied with what you demanded in the wage increase, to put the amount of the wage supplement in the basic wage, it would have increased in vain, it would have been on the previous salary, some of which would have been eliminated by the increase in the minimum wage of the skilled worker, since it would not have been added as a supplement, building on the basic wage. By adding this as a substitute, social workers today have an advantage of 10,000 or tens of thousands of forints compared to what you say, because if they were in the basic wage, the wages of the surrogates and the minimum wage of the skilled worker would collapse; but, of course, we would like both of them to continue to rise. What you are saying, honourable Member, is that people with a health education are looking for something different if they work in the social sphere than if they are working in health care: there are about three thousand people who work in the social sphere with a health degree and a health job, and they are not under the social pay table, but they have been transferred to the health pay table by our decision about 2-3 years ago. So if you work in the social sphere with a health degree and a health job, you're looking for me according to the health pay sign. But, of course, we will strive, as you have said, to continue to increase wages. We remember the period before 2010, the period of your new allies, when a month's wages were reduced, a month's wages were taken from people in the social sphere. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And we've been trying to raise the wage as much as possible over the past few years. We've had 60 percent, we'd like more, we'll be working on that in the coming years. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-223	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2019-04-01-224	Dear Secretary of State, What you've said to the 3,000 people is a minority of the people who work with health education in the social sector. What is a health job is very difficult to determine, for example, when it comes to care tasks related to dementia, what is social and health work is confusing. These are integrated systems, they should be functioning holistically, and this simply applies to the minority, not to the majority. And the other is that we all know that they're giving wage increases to make it dependent on you, so that it doesn't always automatically rise after it, but that you have to do a separate search for every 10 to 15 percent so that you can announce it each time in one of your media separately. Finally, answer me the one question: do you think it is okay that a medical educator currently earns 130 thousand forints in a living home for mentally disabled people? Is he okay or not okay? You're not telling me what happened under the Stoy government, and you're telling me that when I graduated, who did what, you're telling me if it's okay to make 130 grand or not. Thank you very much.
u2019-04-01-225	Thank you. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-04-01-226	Thank you very much. I don't think I went to either of our graduations, but there may be a speech when this is the subject. Honourable Congressman, We want to develop in this sector. Whoever you look at, your wages are much higher, much higher than they were in 2010 or 2014, with the 60% I've already told you about. Another important part of our development is the creation of nursing homes, apart from raising wages. A new type of legal quality, a new form of care, in which people in the social sphere are now at an even higher level, which you mentioned, can also receive health care and even higher levels of social care. We have tried to make progress in this area, both in terms of wages and in terms of supply. We hope that the nursing homes will fulfill the hopes that we have attached to it, that people will see that this will be a better quality, somewhere on the verge of health care and social care, and that it will become more and more popular. That is why it was also important to expand home care. You know, we can now help a lot more people in home care than in 2010-14. Everywhere, in every area, we tried to move forward, give more to people, give more security to those in need. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-227	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Timea Szabó, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think, Prime Minister? It's an address. Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, asked for an answer in response to the urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman whether she accepts the person of the responding person or asks the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2019-04-01-228	Although Minister Gulyás almost jumped from the answer here, I accept him as a responder.
u2019-04-01-229	You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-04-01-230	Minister, a few days ago, the video in which Mr. János Pócs locked a Roma employee in a boiler said that he was burning the Gypsies he was angry with, and then he took a piece of paper, a burning piece of paper, and threw it into the flammable materials and locked the boiler door on him. This case naturally provoked great outrage from the people, even the National Roma Municipality, which was difficult to accuse of opposition, called for resignation. But let me ask the Fidesz Members of KDNP who are sitting here to put their hands up to the person who liked it, who found this video humorous. Well, I see zero hands, so that means the government representatives didn't like this joke, either, according to János Pócs. We know this thing was a felony, but it's gone. But you also know, Minister, who has a degree in law, that, say, a coercion, which can be punished by three years in prison, can be brought out of this, but at worst, let's say, a physical defamation, which would require a year's imprisonment at least. I would like to ask the Minister where the line is with you when such an attitude of representatives is already unacceptable. We know that when Tibor Navracsics was the group leader, he had one fellow Member resigned for less. Don't you think that if you leave this behind, you'll lose the rest of your moral capital? Don't you think it's the least we can do for the power holders not to humiliate others, not to humiliate the employees below us? I would like to ask Minister [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We can expect to have János Pócs resigned, or this case will remain without consequences. Thank you. [[18.40]]
u2019-04-01-231	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2019-04-01-232	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and Gentlemen, While I could list for a long time the lack of credibility of your request for a moral basis in your new form of alliance, I will not do this, nor will I explain the horror of constitutional law for a long time, but briefly, that your desire for a lack of the rule of law would indeed be true if the government determined how long a Member of Parliament's mandate would last. It's the other way around. Today, the Hungarian Parliament determines the form in which the government's mandate is created and how long it lasts exactly. But after the faction of the largest ruling party issued a statement stating that they had been said, even if they were meant to be friendly jokes, they were clearly unfortunate because they could be a misunderstanding, and the faction of the largest governing party took a clear and clear position on the matter. My colleague Pócs also told me about the conditions under which the recording was made, after which and in view of this faction issued this statement. Of course, you can stand against everything with the greatest malice possible, but if you are doing so, then the alliance that you are now starting to seek, and in which spirit you will be launching joint candidates in municipal elections with Jobbik, you should immediately finish. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-04-01-233	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return. Just a minute, please.
u2019-04-01-234	Mr. Secretary, I think our alliance search may not be quite a parallel. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Yes, you can.]] One of those things where someone gets locked up in a boiler, humiliated to death, and throws a burning piece of paper on it. Is that really what you're comparing it to? ! And the fact that this video was unlucky, does that mean you're expressing your clear position? Is that all this government that says it's a Christian? Well, I'm telling you, I can't believe it. János Pócs, I know you're fasting right now, so don't say anything, but be ashamed and get out of this house. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What about the Pearly?]] László Kövér is constantly punishing us opposition representatives for alleged violations of the dignity of this House. Well, isn't that a violation of the House's dignity? ! Well, shame on you, you fake Christian, inhuman... I can't even find a word for you. By the way, Minister, that is not what I asked you, but what you think and whether we can expect your resignation.
u2019-04-01-235	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor back to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2019-04-01-236	Thank you to the woman on the repeated question, and I do not intend to resign, and I have just answered her question about the Member clearly that the mandate of Members has nothing to do with the Government. [[Szabó Timea: It was for Navrachiche!]] I would perhaps adjust what was said, Tibor Navracsics was then a faction leader, the faction leader had something to do with the faction, but the government had something to do with the faction, so let's be honest. [[Szabó Timea: Are you a member of the faction, Minister?]] there would be serious problems with the establishment of the mandate. However, I would like to correct what was said in so far as, when this recording was made, Mr Pócs was not yet a member of the Parliament, since then he has gained the trust of his constituency four times in free and democratic elections. [[Szabó Timea: So what?]] I believe that there is not a single Member in your group who would have won the voter's trust even once. [[Szabó Timea: I won in singles!]] Perhaps with one exception, if Professor belongs to the faction, but I can't always follow that. And the second woman in charge of the faction has won once, so I think there are two of them who won once, Mr Pócs has won four times, and she was not a Member when the recording was made. [[Szabó Timea: You can commit a crime if you have won four times, right? A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-04-01-237	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, F Sándor Kovács, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: "Where is the end?" What means can the state take in the case of renovation of homes linked to corruption in exchange for state orders? It's an address. Minister Pál Völner has appointed Minister of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yes, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-04-01-238	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The eight-year-old harmful governance of the MSZP-SZDSZ is surrounded by a multitude of corruption scandals. Of course, the balliberal attitude towards public funds did not escape the socialist-led municipalities either. All we need to think about is the convicted deputy mayor, chief of staff or notary of Mayor László Botka Szeged. The head of Seviép, who had a good relationship with the city administration, was sentenced to a multi-annual imprisonment in the first instance by the court. Among the leaders, Sándor Baranyi broke the silence and told about the corruption machine of the socialists between 2002 and 2010. He said that after every major infrastructure development, the companies that received the order had to return at least 3 percent to left-wing decision-makers. He noted that these amounts were used in a significant part to finance Balliberal parties. It was typical of the socialist era that only foreign companies were ordered instead of Hungarian businesses, despite the fact that there was no technical justification for their installation. This scenario was also implemented in the case of the construction of the M43 motorway, where a Spanish company placed in the position of the socialists took the lead of the consortium, in which Seviép was also involved. According to the CEO, the house of István Ujhelyi was renovated in exchange for 30-40 million HUF. Seviép's scandals are spreading, and the air around the Szeged socialists is running out. In view of what has been said, I would like to ask the Minister how long this can continue. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-04-01-239	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner, Deputy Minister. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-04-01-240	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As long as it could continue, voters had already given an answer in 2010, because precisely because of these activities, which, although not all surfaced, punished the then government coalition and have not been allowed near the government since then. It can be seen that it was indeed a common practice to give foreign companies the big, fat state orders, under them the subcontractors who, as the company manager said, financed the various activities of the then governing parties, which we have not discovered and have not known, for a fee of three percent or more. According to the CEO's statement that the house of István Ujhelyi's private interests was also renovated from this 30-40 million forints, this must be accounted for by István Ujhelyi, and he must also say that he was sent to Brussels as a reward for his former services. [[Dr. László Varga: You are such a disgrace to be unbelievable!]] to thank him for his role in party selection, or to buy his silence now, so that he would not be as talkative as the leader of Seviép, who eventually revealed the networks that were operating at that time. [[Dr. László Varga: You have 100 billion-dollar corruption cases!]] But the fact that it is not an individual case also shows that those lists, let us just think about the Sukoro case, let us think about the Czeglédy case, which until today shows the functioning of the socialist octopus, all testify to the role of the Altus and Dobrev Klara, which is guilty, linked to suspicious financial movements, that they have not learned from it, continue to do the same thing under the government. [[Dr. László Varga: You're cheating the election, you're a disgrace!]] It also explains why each year, or every four years, the elections will be conducted where they end up and will probably end up in the same way in the EU elections at the end of May. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-04-01-241	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. [[Dr. László Varga: Tell him hard, ask him yourself.]]
u2019-04-01-242	Thank you for the floor, Mr. Secretary. You're right, as in the Czeglédy case, it's very clear here that the money is back on the Balliberal side, and they could land in the register of left-wing parties, presumably. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] Sándor Baranyi said that foreign companies had to be intervened in this case so that money could go back to left-wing decision-makers. [[György Szilágyi takes video with his mobile phone from the Presidential Stage.]]
u2019-04-01-243	Congressman Szilágyi, please be kind.
u2019-04-01-244	If you are satisfied with what you have said...
u2019-04-01-245	You can't take pictures of the congressman. Here you go, Congressman. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: How can you tell without laughing?]] Go ahead. [[18.50]]
u2019-04-01-246	If they are justified, and according to all suspicions so, it is particularly outrageous that corruption money, the funds of people who are short-lived, went to luxury investments and to the luxury investment of left-wing politicians. [[Dr. László Varga: What are you talking about? Did you see his video this weekend?]] This is insufferable! [[Dr. László Varga: You are such a disgrace!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-04-01-247	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[Dr. László Varga: Tell him hard!]]
u2019-04-01-248	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, the history of the wounded and the people left on the side of the road and the socialists with this grating [[Rumors and information from the dialogue and the MSZP.]] because they caused 443 family problems and bankruptcy in Seviáp. [[Szabó Timea: Luckily Lőrinc Ripper is a poor gas mechanic!]] that this more than HUF 10 billion has not been paid, and the more than HUF 6 billion that the Czeglédys embezzled were missing partly from the payment of the salaries of pensioners and students, which the government had to make up for separately. So they not only think of themselves, but they do not care about others, so they can connect them in these matters. The other is that if we think about the slanderous campaigns that are being conducted against the current government, and we take, for example, the case of metro money, where we will still have to settle tens of billions of forints of Hungarian taxpayers' money towards Brussels, then we can see that the effects of the cursed inheritance that the socialist government has reported in Hungary are still felt today. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-04-01-249	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Congressman Péter James, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question, "How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. Minister Tállai, State Secretary András Tállai, in response to an urgent public mission [[For signal:]] I'm sorry, Sándor Bodó has appointed Secretary of State with several respondents. I would like to ask Congressman if he will accept the person of the responding person, or personally...
u2019-04-01-250	I'll take it, thank you.
u2019-04-01-251	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-04-01-252	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Do you know why I asked you to speak? Because I really hate it when someone lies to my face, and that's what you did. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Gábor Vona did this!]] Dear Secretary of State, You received a clear question from me a week ago. I asked who they're building the container city of Tiszaújváros in the Mol area for, because the locals call it Turkish migrant workers. I also asked them if they considered it dangerous, when a partly Hungarian state company is already swearing on immigrants rather than on the Hungarian workforce. You replied that you are not building a container city in Tiszaújváros, and otherwise you will respond to labour market challenges with Hungarian labour force. Now, compared to this, a few days ago, the company concerned, Mol Petrolkémia Zrt., spoke. He is also the CEO of Mol, who said that Mol is building a new plant in Tiszaújváros, bringing 2,500 migrant workers, mostly from outside the EU. The first wave will arrive this summer, and the 2500-frame will be fully uploaded in 2020, so it will be uploaded next year. Of the 2500 migrant workers, 2,000 are located in a newly established container city. Secretary of State, these are the facts and the fact that Mol Zrt. In cooperation with the Tiszaújváros municipality, it already calls for security measures, including the strengthening of the police and the deployment of a new camera system for migrant workers. So these are the facts, Mr. Secretary. Basically, to understand the problem: 2,500 guest workers from outside the EU arrive in a small town of 15,000 people, with all the safety consequences and risks. I have three very short questions. 1. Why did you lie about the container city of Tiszaújváros? 2. What countries outside the EU will immigrants come from? 3. How does the admission of 2,500 migrants to government communication benefit from the fact that you do not allow any migrants into the territory of Hungary? And obviously, a state firm wouldn't let me in without Viktor Orbán's permission, but it looks like he got this. So you've got clear questions, I want clear answers. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] You have the floor, I'm listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-04-01-253	If you don't mind my saying so, Congressman, the floor is mine in the Chamber. [[Defiance.]] Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Bodo. Here you go.
u2019-04-01-254	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It is indeed an honor to have the floor from Mr President. [[Defiance.]] For this style, I think there is no reason or reason for any congressman you have used. And certainly not the fact that my answer in the previous period is completely twisted. I didn't say at all that there was no such development. [[Peter James: The record can be looked back! Dr. Brenner Koloman: It's a good thing you can read it back in the minutes.]] I apologize if you'll listen to me. So I've informed you that you're really building up there to accommodate the workforce and rest. By the way, it's in the record, you saw it, I saw it. There is no doubt that the Government of Hungary is committed to replacing it with a Hungarian workforce, or to implementing the developments that are taking place in Hungary with a Hungarian workforce. Obviously, this is also seen by the fact that the number of public workers is constantly decreasing, and more and more people are moving to the competition sector. However, it should also be noted that in cases where there is no adequate domestic or EU labour force, there may be a third-country labour force on the Hungarian labour market. This is fully regulated. This is protected by the quota issued by the Minister of Finance, when it is mentioned in which job the number of employees can be employed. I would also like to inform you that there are nearly 55 thousand people who could be employed by third-country workers and 11 thousand people who are loaded. In the context of the investment in Tiszaújváros, I can inform you of the latest data: today there has been no labour demand announcement for foreign workers for 14 hours 10 minutes. [[Peter James: I said the first wave is coming in the summer!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-04-01-255	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. In return, I'll give the floor to the congressman in a minute.
u2019-04-01-256	Once again, Mol Zrt. According to his CEO, the first wave will arrive in the summer, and it will be counted from there. So let's summarize what we know so far. Runaways can come, they haven't denied it yet, you just have to knock nicely. If someone buys bonds from Antal Rogán, he can come too. Now the Tiszaújváros case tells me that economic immigrants can come, not only can they come, but they can even benefit from family housing benefits, they can also benefit from family tax benefits for their children abroad, and I could tell you more. So, once again, we're ready for refugees, bondholders, economic immigrants. Then who can't come? Tell me, will you? Who can't come? We believe that labour market problems should be dealt with, if you will, not with Eastern migrant workers, but with Western wages. That's what we believe, and you see the future in the container. So I'd like to ask you where and how many of the container cities you want to build outside Tiszaújváros. I'm waiting for your answer, and I trust you'll at least try to tell me the truth now. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-04-01-257	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-04-01-258	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I can continue to confirm that Hungary's Government is committed to providing domestic workers as much as possible. In this case, once again, but I do not know how effective this can be in your case, I would like to inform you [[Deterioration from the pro-government benches.]] that a foreign worker can only be recruited by a domestic employer if the National Employment Service considers that neither a Hungarian nor an EU citizen can be posted to this post. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Because the Hungarian workers are in London! Peter James: 800,000 Hungarian workers emigrated!]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-04-01-259	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr.Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[On the mark of Lőrinc Nacsa:]] Yes, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-04-01-260	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, today it was revealed that there was no new under the sun. From the previous parliamentary debate of the Family Protection Act, from all kinds of statements and from today's vote, it is clear that Gyurcsányek again suffers from growing support for families with children. In today's vote, the representatives of the Gyurcsány Party voted against the support of Hungarian families, voting against the Hungarian families by name: Gergely Arató, Zsolt Gréczy, László Hajdu, Imre László, Lajos Oláh, Ágnes Vadai and László Varju. Obviously, if Ferenc Gyurcsány had found his way here in awe, he would have voted no, too. It is worth mentioning the anarchist faction of the Dialogue, who did not participate in the debates, who made no substantive or comments. They were still cowardly, and they didn't say yes to the Hungarian families either. What we see is that the politicians of the Gyurcsány Party have attacked the family protection action adopted today. Tamás Bauer, former candidate for the Gyurcsány Party, recently stated that support for families with children is a bad direction, so it must be voted against. The politician of the Gyurcsány Party in a recent paper explains that family support is perverse and that it is not right for the government to increase the wealth of families with children, and that he believes that the purchase of his own home should not be supported. He also stated openly earlier that migration should be promoted instead of families. [[19.00]] The Gyurcsánys have always taken me away from families with children, their names have come together with restrictions, and it is clear that Hungarian families cannot count on them. If I could, if they got close to power, they'd take me away from families with children again and give me to immigrants, because they're openly pro-immigration, thinking in European united states. The question arises as to why DK and Dialogue are sore if the support of Hungarian families is increasing. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-261	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-04-01-262	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Hungarian citizens have repeatedly expressed their support for increasing, increasing and helping those who wish to have children so that they do not become one of the people of poverty. If we look at the different trends in recent years, we can see that, fortunately, this goal has been achieved, because in all family types, single-parent families, families with two-parent children, families with multiple children and large families, the risk of poverty has been reduced, if we look at it as a whole, to about half of what was in 2010. If Hungary had had left-wing governments in recent years, the trends before 2010 would obviously have continued with an increasing number of unemployed people, non-increasing wages and poor families. On the other hand, Hungary has had a civil government since 2010, but the leader of the opposition has not changed, Ferenc Gyurcsány remains. Not only did he subdue his former party, MSZP, but it seems that the LMP and the dialogue formation ripped out of the LMP [[Gergely Harvester: Not Jobbik?]] And today Jobbik has also given up its own policy, and Jobbik is also more likely to stand behind Ferenc Gyurcsány, who was once considered to be an eyeball and unacceptable. Now they're clapping there, shaking hands with them, I don't know if they'll wash their hands after they go home, but they're clearly in touch with him. Ferenc Gyurcsány is indeed the most characteristic opposition politician nine years after he died for the left. That is why we know and know, we have also seen how much respect Peter Medgyessy, his former executor, has had, and how many months he's had, nothing else to do with his supporters on the left or on the right. Those who have come into his sphere have been dictated by him, so of course, as he is now opposed to family-related measures here in Parliament, he would oppose it on government and their government. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] just now, complemented by Jobbik, families would never focus, but the focus would be on introduction. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-263	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc in return. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-04-01-264	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have already heard that Peter James always hates you, but we see that he does not hate it when he embraces Ferenc Gyurcsány and makes some kind of loyalty here in front of Parliament. [[James Peter intervenes.]] And he's on stage with her all the time, or with his wife. If one does not know what would happen to families, if power would fall into the hands of the left, then it is necessary to look at what happened before 2010: the family tax relief was abolished, the one- and two-year-olds started, the three-year-old child was abolished, the family was constantly reduced, the school closures were faced, and the government's family policy measures were not voted out after 2010. Zita Gurmai, a representative of the MSZP, also said that they would eliminate the ged extra if they came to government. We can see that Hungarian families cannot count on the Balliberal opposition; Hungarian families can only count on Fidesz-KDNP. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intercoms from the opposition benches, including: Excellent! Ouch! James Peter: That's why there are so many evictions!]]
u2019-04-01-265	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, who will be rejoined. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-04-01-266	Thank you very much. After all, this is a rather spectacular assembly: I think Ferenc Gyurcsány may have been the 17th worst state leader, Prime Minister in a statement from two years ago, there were only a few dozen state leaders around the world who performed worse than him, and Márton Gyöngyösi, the leader of the Jobbik faction, was the seventh anti-Semitic politician in the world, according to a statement from a few years ago. [[There's an uproar in the opposition benches. Tamás Pintér: What is the number of Pintér? The president's ringing the bell.]] Interestingly, those who were protesting against it now smile fiercely; then they were shocked. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] and with a pale face, all politicians were protested here in Parliament, and now they are laughing at it. Well, in this House, Fidesz-KDNP can indeed be expected of people, and we see that if governments trust families, families will be able to tell us that children's desire has increased by 20 percent since 2010 and the number of marriages has increased by 43 percent. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] The number of divorces decreased by 22.5 percent, and the number of abortions decreased by a quarter. It's worth trusting the Hungarian people. We regret that the opposition does not trust the Hungarian people or Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. György Szilágyi: Save János Pócs!]]
u2019-04-01-267	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "The child is no longer human? It's an address. Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office in response to an urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély:]] Yeah. Congresswoman, you have the floor. Before you start counting into the time frame, I thank you for your cooperation and I will hand over the chair of the meeting to Vice-President Sneider. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]]
u2019-04-01-268	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you, Minister, for waiting for the last immediate question. There has been talk of sick children today, of Congressman Pócs' invaluable behavior, and I would like to ask you again about children. In recent years, we have seen that there is an inexplicable attraction for leading Fidesz politicians to acquire castles for private purposes or through organizations. A year and a half ago, word came out that they were going to liquidate the Fotian children's home, and basically they were trying to get the kids out of there. That's what they call ejection. It is true that Secretary of State Philip said that disinheriting the Fót institution is necessary because in many cases children's homes created under communism have been built in fallen castles on the edge of settlements, in former monasteries. [[Gergely Gulyás consults with Dr. Bence of Rétvár.]] It is important to know that Foton was the first to eliminate the mass landing, and the children are not placed in broken-down buildings, but are well-designed, well-refurbished, although these children live in modern, small housing homes in ten-acre parks. But we're talking about a valuable property here, Minister. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: But they're not in a castle!]] And if you're looking at something, it doesn't matter what sick kids there are. For decades these homes have served the needs of sick children. We're talking about if you need these castles, you're gonna take them. I would like to ask the Minister whether this will really end up sacrificing everything, even sick children, without the other institutions knowing that they are taking these children to Kalocsa or the other settlements. Minister, you're going to stop this hideous act, aren't you? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2019-04-01-269	Welcome, fellow Members. Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás.
u2019-04-01-270	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I can reassure you about the fate of the children of Fot, because there is no hurry, no one has looked at the castle, there are no children in the castle, there is a panel building, there are children in it. They will only leave there, and only if they are provided with better care. Moreover, if the congresswoman took part in today's vote and watched how the congresswoman voted, I do not know how she voted, but we have just given up part of the Fotian territory in order to allow the successful therapy that has taken place there in recent years with regard to children to continue, so that all other false claims or rumors can continue. The Ministry of Human Resources would also like to provide the Member with more detailed information. However, there is no reason to panic, and there is no reason to hurry, and the children will only move from there to another place if they are given better conditions or are given foster care. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-271	Thank you, Minister. Congresswoman's got the floor. [[19.10]]
u2019-04-01-272	Thank you very much. Recently, Magyar Nemzet wrote that after the closure of the children's town, the castle will be renovated, and later it will function as a place of state protocol and cultural and social events; close to the airport, the place is exclusive and everyone will win with its renewal. Mr. Secretary, this is what homes are like where they want to take the kids. [[He's showing three A4-sized images.]] I know if Laszlo Fat sat here, he'd punish me. That's where they want these kids to stay. Aren't they rushing? [[Dr. Benedict of Rétvári:]] Mr. Secretary, I didn't ask you the question. I asked Mr. Secretary. Mr. Secretary, you don't have to rush, you have to leave this property for the kids. Then refurbish the castle for the children. Not protocol. Here's to the kids, where they've had employees for decades, retired employees, these sick kids. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Discuss this with the protection of monuments.]] Why do they always do this to Hungarian children? Of course, they can't defend themselves, can they, Minister? They are unable to defend themselves. This castle, this children's town, belongs to the children. Don't touch it and don't steal it.
u2019-04-01-273	Your Minister... has the floor.
u2019-04-01-274	Thank you very much, I am not applying for the post of Prime Minister, and I would like to record this for the record. [[Noise on the opposition side.]]
u2019-04-01-275	I said Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry.
u2019-04-01-276	Thank you very much. The anger behind the Congresswoman's words shows that she is unlikely to understand the comforting answer that there is a castle there at the moment. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: At the moment!]] which really needs to be renovated, but no children live there. What's beautiful and what's not beautiful may be a difference of taste between us. I don't think those panel houses where children live are pretty. I also accept that today there are institutions in a worse state in the care of children. And although you did not ask the question to the EMMI, to which you would otherwise be competent, forgive Mr Secretary of State for informing me here, but the Ministry of Human Resources has a clear and clear intention that children should only move from there, and only if they are able to get in better circumstances or if they can get into foster care. Therefore, in this case, the castle where no one, no child, lives does not have any significance. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-277	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, We will move on to the agenda of the questions. First, Tamás Pintér, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior: "The cabbage for Goats?" It's an address. Mr Tamás Pintér shall have the floor.
u2019-04-01-278	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, In 2010, I considered the consolidation of municipalities to be a forward-looking measure. Then, in 2013, Dunaújváros was saved from a huge debt. However, the financial movements of recent years are once again drawing dark clouds by the mouse of our beloved city. Biteful corruption, unfinished or unfinished developments, and constant promises all show that everything is not all right with the financial situation. Another proof of this is that the Fidesz-led municipality would like to take out a loan of HUF 1.5 billion. I believe that, in some cases, a normal, predictable loan is essential for certain key developments, of course for the benefit of the public. But that's not what this is about. Here in parentheses, I would like to note that if it were to be borrowed, I would be able to spend the amount of that money on tidying up the scandalously executed street lighting. However, after more than a month of interest, all we learned from the staff of the municipality is that the credit is needed because of the stability of the urban budget. The detailed draft and the lack of accounting are serious concerns. Either the budget is in such a bad situation that there is a need to borrow money, or the funds raised will be spent on campaign investments before the elections, which will make the people living there in debt for the long term, or the current city administration is terrified of losing the municipal election, and with this loan they are already trying to make the work of the new leadership impossible. It is frightening to think that six years after the credit consolidation, the Fidesz city-run Dunaújváros is in such a position that it is forced to borrow again, as is the fact that the public is being sold long-term because of the campaign. So I ask you if you will support a loan in the Ministry that does not have a detailed account of its spending, or whether you wish to regulate in some form the borrowings of the settlements in the Ministry of Finance that mismanage the assets entrusted to them. I thank you in advance for your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-04-01-279	Thank you. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2019-04-01-280	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, after 2010, it became necessary for the State to take over the debt from the municipalities. The municipal debt had two consequences, on the one hand, for development loans and, on the other hand, from 2008 the municipalities became increasingly dependent on operating loans to maintain their operational capacity. When the debt consolidation was carried out, the government did not examine the purpose for which the debt was not assessed by the municipalities except for a very narrow circle. The government and the State Audit Office can control the use of money and the use of budgetary resources in the municipalities from the regularity side. At the same time, I think that we all consider it a serious achievement that the municipalities can manage as local governments, so that the municipalities, the body of representatives, created by the trust of the electorate, can decide what the funds entrusted to them are used for, and the electorate will decide whether they have done the right thing or not. This is also the case where local authorities wish to borrow, where appropriate. At the same time, in order to prevent re-indebtedness, we have indeed introduced rules, which specify exactly what case a municipality can borrow from each municipality. Only if it is not for operational purposes, i.e. for development purposes, and if it can be established from their budget that the repayment of the loan is guaranteed. Dunaújváros has not yet submitted a request for borrowing, so at the moment we cannot say for what purpose the city intends to use credit. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-281	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. When will the development of Szeged-Makó suburban transport, a mixed traffic Tisza Bridge and the P + R parking lot serving the associated rail and public transport be built? It's an address. Mr Sándor Szabó has the floor.
u2019-04-01-282	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, A cooperation agreement was concluded between the Hungarian government and the municipality of Szeged in 2017 that the government will build the suburban railway line between Szeged and Mako in connection with the improvement of the city's accessibility and the development of the region's motorway network with the associated mixed traffic bridge and the P+R parking lot. The government decision includes a date of preparation of 31 March 2019 and a deadline of 31 August 2022 for the implementation of the project. Moreover, the IKOP, an integrated operational programme for the development of transport, also calls the investment a priority project. There is a funding envelope of HUF 15.5 billion available for this purpose, which is what NIF Zrt. is requesting. He'll use you. The city had previously prepared detailed implementation study plans for the implementation of the project, which was handed over to NIF Zrt., NIF Zrt. And for the design documentation, he received the environmental license from the Csongrád County Government Office. I came to you in writing last August, and in reply, the Minister informed me that, for the procurement required for the export plans, the tender documentation had already been completed and that the construction permit was expected to be obtained in 2019 and that the construction works would then be carried out. Since we have no information on the state of the project since then, as a representative of the city of Szeged, I would like to ask you again and ask the Secretary of State to inform you about the development of Szeged-Makó suburban transport, the mixed traffic of the Tisza Bridge and the construction of the P+R parking lot serving the associated rail and public transport. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
u2019-04-01-283	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2019-04-01-284	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thanks to the outstanding growth of the Hungarian economy and the government's transport policy, a number of transport development projects have been implemented throughout the country, including in Szeged and Csongrád county since 2010. Between 2010 and 2018 road development and road renovation took place in the region for a total of HUF 250 billion. These include several sections of the road, node, bridge, with a significant network role, but also intervention ensuring better conditions for local transport. A number of investments are currently being carried out or prepared. I mention only as an example the Nagylaki bypass, which was completed in the second half of 2019, the ongoing preparation of the Szeged-Debrecen motorway connection, or the HUF 7 billion support due in 2020-21, which will be received by Szeged in the framework of the programme "Modern Cities" for the development of electric public transport. [[19.20]] The government is constantly moving towards the establishment of a transport network for Hungary's long-term and sustainable growth. This work also includes the development of the Szeged-Makó railway suburban transport, the construction of the mixed traffic Tisza Bridge, which will, of course, be included in the road network development programme if budgetary resources are available, if study plans and plans are completed. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-04-01-285	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Who needs the Castle of Fóti Children's City? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, By answering this question, Prime Minister Andrea Bártfai-Mager, who is responsible for national asset management, has appointed a Minister without a portfolio of tasks and powers. At the request of the Minister, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, will answer the question.
u2019-04-01-286	Thank you very much. Dear House, Like the EU funds, the land, the private pension savings, the Balaton, the Fidesz also lays hands on the Fidesz children's centre in Fót. On the suggestion of two Christian Democrats, state lands will be allocated to László Kövér's favorite NGO, the National Children's Rescue Service, and they want children living in the children's center out of the environment where they live now. This institution has been welcoming disadvantaged children since 1958, and the previous system hasn't tried to expose them, hasn't laid hands on their home, as opposed to you. To one of my written questions, you have given the cynical answer that children must go because they do not have a good place in the old ruiny castle parks outside the settlement. What kind of screaming lie is that? ! The children's centre is located in the centre of Fot, next to the town hall, in a wonderful castle park, renovated, otherwise renovated in the program started at the time of our government, in family-house buildings. Apparently, Minister Gulyás doesn't know what he's talking about when he says there are panel buildings here. Those old buildings in the children's town aren't panels, but in this respect, they're brick-built. But now the children's town doesn't use them, but they're married... especially for these children, who have a lot of wheelchairs, in special housing homes adapted to their needs. That is what Minister Gulyás says, that they will otherwise be placed in better circumstances. Where? Where are the better circumstances? That's ridiculous. But by the way, all we know is that they have to go. My question is, also referring to Mr. Secretary of State's response, who needs the castle of the Fotian children's center, why the children have to go. [[Ildikó Bangóné Barbély applauds.]]
u2019-04-01-287	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2019-04-01-288	Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Knowing your sensitivity, I'm trying to give you the answer without any indication. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] But either you're uninformed or you're deceived. The Fotian Children's Town and the castle have absolutely nothing to do with the land provided by the Child's Rescue Service. Locator numbers next to each other, they have nothing to do with each other. The two institutions had nothing more to do with the fact that residents of the children's town of Fót, if they were in need of health, could switch to therapeutic employment. The castle of Fót, for you, is marked Fot 1565/2. is located on a local property number and has been in the management of the Károlyi István Children's Centre since 1984. And the Children's Rescue Service has three completely different geographic numbers and has been in the care of the Children's Rescue Service for over 20 years. We have said this several times in the last seven weeks, we have said it in the general debate, we have said it in the detailed debate, we have said it now, so your question, let me give myself so many ratings, I must consider it unfounded. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-04-01-289	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister:. If the government knows that air pollution in Hungary leads to the premature death of 8 to 10 thousand people every year and to mass sickness, why doesn't it change the situation? It's an address. The question will be answered by the Prime Minister, István Nagy, Minister of Agriculture, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-04-01-290	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Air pollution is now so high not only in our larger cities, but also in many small settlements, that according to the World Health Organization, 8-10 thousand people die prematurely every year in Hungary. In addition, there is a mass of respiratory, cardiovascular, immune and central nervous system related disease associated with air pollution. According to WHO, our losses due to air pollution amount to 19 percent of GDP and cause a loss of a million working days per year. This loss is a serious problem for families and national economies alike. In a situation like this, the government must act. On the other hand, due to poor air quality, Hungary has been in breach of EU obligations for ten years. The European Commission has finally brought a case before the European Court of Justice because the government has not taken the necessary measures. Instead, the Hungarian government fought to destroy the EU directive on clean air and thus the limit set for the six main air pollutants. On 13 March, however, the European Court of Justice dismissed this action in all its points. Meanwhile, Fidesz representatives voted against the European Parliament's resolution on clean air for all in March, which aims to improve air quality rapidly. This is another proof that the government ignores the interests of the Hungarian people and wants to avoid its obligation. The deadline for the national air pollution reduction programme to be prepared by the EU is 1 April. Minister, is the program ready? Who, when and from what will he accomplish it? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2019-04-01-291	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister.
u2019-04-01-292	Mr President, Dear House, My dear fellow Member, We fully agree that air pollution is a very serious threat. The particulate matter in the air comes to the greatest extent from residential heating, burning of avar and garden waste. Unfortunately, in the retail sector, it takes longer to achieve the results, but we are convinced that with regulation, support programmes and information events we will come closer to the goal set. The national air load reduction programme for achieving the new EU emission reduction targets is still under development. The actions of the comprehensive programme shall cover the activities of agriculture, transport, the energy sector and the public involved in air pollution, including those relating to heating and energy efficiency. In line with the complexity of the programme, there is a broad consultation within the government to ensure that sectoral strategies are consistent with the measures identified. Of course, the document will include the actors responsible for implementing each measure as well as the timing of the measures. We want to ensure that it is implemented from EU and domestic budgetary resources. But what does the agrarian purse do? That's what I'm responsible for. At the moment, 22 million trees are immediately planted, 4.8 thousand hectares of forest planting are already underway, and 1200 hectares of forest planting is under assessment. In the downtown of Budapest, the extent of district heating is... so that we do not use heating. We did not allow the price of the social firewood to increase so that people could get as many high-quality trees as possible. The heat is smart! The campaign seeks to promote awareness-building to raise public awareness of how to heat correctly, how to use fuel correctly and what risks there are for heating waste or waste. [[19.30]] But the good solution will be that economic recovery is needed, more wages that will enable people to live in healthier conditions, and adequate heating materials. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-293	Thank you, Minister. Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question: why is the Fidesz government not supporting the development of the capital instead of Zsolt Semjén's hobby? It's an address. In answering this question, the Prime Minister appointed the Minister for Innovation and Technology László Palkovics, who is competent and competent according to the subject. The question will be answered by Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés, at the request of the Minister. You have the floor.
u2019-04-01-294	Thank you. We have already spent hundreds of billions of HUF on the Prime Minister's hobby; it seems that from now on the Deputy Prime Minister's hobby has to be spent tens of billions of HUF each year on Hungarian taxpayers' money. They want to spend 50 billion forints in the capital, but not for the benefit of Budapest, but for Zsolt Semjén's World Hunting Exhibition. Fifty billion inexplicably large amounts of money, especially if they want to spend on a host of stuffed savages, animal-destructive weapons and corrupt Fidesz politicians, directing an unknown organization that has only one post office in Budakes. With 50 billion forints, 500 000 trees could be planted, free meals could be provided for every child in Budapest for two years, 500 new buses could be bought, or 1200 new municipal apartments could be built. The Orbán system declared war on the people of Budapest. They took 200 billion forints from our budget, took away our hospitals, our schools. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: There are no schools in Budapest, really?]] They decimated our green areas and brought an untimely, uncomfortable and expensive Russian subway to our necks. Orbán's governor, István Tarlós, tolerates this without saying a word. That is why we need a new mayor for Budapest, Gergely Christmas. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Isn't it the Púzsér?]] Mr. Secretary. What will be the source of billions of hobbies, ten billion? What capital investment is left behind in order to make enough money for the Semjén's gentleman's party? How much does the capital's debt increase? Do they really want to leave it to an impenetrable mailbox company? And finally, is Fidesz serious about launching István Tarlós' campaign in Budapest with this insane idea? I look forward to your reply.
u2019-04-01-295	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2019-04-01-296	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It seems that you want to take the first place in the ignominious competition of the Dialogue and, in particular, fake news production, because I have to do it, let me draw your attention to the fact that 60,000 Hungarians are hunting today, including 3,500 professional hunters. Hunting tourism is the leading sector in the area of spending a day's stay, as a foreign hunter leaves 20 times more money in the Hungarian economy than the average tourist spends. Professionally correct and efficient hunting cannot be imagined without hunting, so hunting is also a very important economic activity. So, as usual, you have violated the dignity of several professions and tens of thousands of people, as usual, for the sake of a political prank. Honourable Congressman, You are talking about Budapest's backward development, while Budapest has only developed since 1990 when the country was a civilian government. The adjectives you're trying to put on us are, in fact, the time of the metropolitan regency of the political alliance that you're putting into parliament, so you're giving your opinion about yourself and yourself. Since 2010 we have made some HUF 2100 billion investment in Budapest, and at that time we did not even mention the ongoing investments, such as the, the Healthy Budapest, the thermal ring in the capital or the, the Southern City Gate project. Finally, let me say that the budget for the World Hunting Exhibition for 2019 is still known, the budget for the remaining two years has not yet come before the government, since it will be completed by the end of 2019. The speech also shows that you believe that the long-term infrastructure investments in business tourism, the renewable exhibition and conference centre, which will be ready for the 2020 Eucharistic World Congress, will host the World Hunting Exhibition in 2021, after which fifty major exhibitions or events will bring the money to the Hungarian budget and the good news to Budapest. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-297	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Ferenc Koncz, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. What further progress is to be made in order to develop and develop the Hungarian countryside? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-04-01-298	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In recent years, the government has put particular emphasis on the development of the Hungarian countryside. One of the most outstanding tender options is the "Hungarian Village" programme, which was launched in 2018. I represent a constituency in Parliament, where out of the 42 settlements 38 out of five thousand people are less than five thousand, so it is obvious that I am interested as a representative and as an ex-Mayor in the. The aim of this programme is to increase the population-preservation power of small settlements by improving rural quality. The first calls for proposals for the programme were launched at the end of February, and now the programme continues with an invitation to tender with a budget of HUF 11 billion. The envelope may be allocated to a doctor's office, a medical centre and medical devices. The government supports the development of the health care system, the improvement of the effectiveness and efficiency of the basic health care system, the modernisation of services and infrastructure conditions of the institutions and the reduction of access inequalities. The aim of the tender is therefore to provide basic health care for the municipalities, to improve their conditions and to facilitate the acquisition of appropriate medical equipment. It is important to stress that development will reduce the territorial disparities in basic health care. Dear Secretary of State, In this regard, I would like to ask what further developments, ideas and progress are expected in order to develop and develop the Hungarian countryside. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-299	Thank you, Congressman. State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2019-04-01-300	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We can remember the times before 2010 [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Remember! Let's remember.]] , small settlements were in financial bankruptcy, who knew, took out some loan to survive, and the MSZP and SZDSZ argued how much of the 3200 municipalities would remain in Hungary; the MSZP said that 2000 would be enough, and SZDSZ said that no, no, 2000 was very many, enough 1000 municipal authorities, enough 1000 mayors in Hungary. That's what the drugstore lock-ups were all about. That's what the school lock-ups were all about. In small settlements, life was not considered to be so important by the then governments as to launch tangible programmes to improve the quality of life of people living here. We believe that if a person moves to a small settlement, the program is intended for settlements of less than five thousand people, then it should not be a matter of life, living standards, but a question of lifestyle choices. In Hungarian, the same public services should be available in small settlements as in larger settlements for people, only the other positives of rural life, the calmer, more natural life for families or anyone else who moves there, are assured. This is why it was also important to launch the Hungarian village, which has not been the case in Hungary since the change of regime. Left-wing governments have launched a Hungarian village eradication programme to keep as few municipalities as possible in Hungary, but targeted support for villages has not yet been launched by previous governments. The first proposals were applications aimed at strengthening national and local identity, and now the latest is to improve access to basic health care, in Hungarian, for general practitioners and doctors working in primary care, to build a service apartment, to build new medical clinics, to renovate medical clinics or to purchase tools. Out of HUF 11 billion, the budget for service apartments is HUF 5 billion, HUF 4 billion for the renovation of medical clinics and HUF 2 billion for the purchase of equipment. Thus, the government grants 30 million HUF for the renovation of a doctor's office per settlement, for the new construction of the government, where they can also be accommodated by women, pediatricians, general practitioners and dentists, with up to 125 million HUF per municipality. We hope that 100-130 GPs can renew in 600-700 settlements, thus not only improving the environment, but also modernising and expanding the forms of care. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[19.40]]
u2019-04-01-301	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The last question will be asked. János Bencsik, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "Does the Government intend to recognise professional qualifications acquired in the EU Member States in Hungary? It's an address. In answering this question, Prime Minister László Palkovics, who is responsible for innovation and technology, has been appointed by the Minister. At the request of the Minister, Mr Péter Cseresnyés, State Secretary, will answer the question. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-04-01-302	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, While the government is supposed to be working to remedy the shortage of labour in Hungary by seducing Hungarians working abroad, we regret that the recognition of professional qualifications acquired abroad in Hungary is seriously hampered. Over the past few years, more people have contacted us with the problem of not being able to work in their own profession, even though they have been trained within the European Union. Recently, one of these cases has also been in the national press. A man with a permanent address in Hungary, who worked in Austria for years, could not obtain at home the professional qualifications he had forklifting and crane certification outside Austria, simply because there is no corresponding legislation in Hungary. The absolutely absurd situation has arisen, ladies and gentlemen, that while an EU citizen can today work cheerfully in Hungary thanks to so-called cross-border services, waving his Austrian certificate at any workplace in Hungary, while a fellow countryman with a Hungarian home address, returning home and settling home cannot do the same, even if his qualifications acquired abroad are, where appropriate, more serious or complex than the Hungarian OKJ certificate. In the 2019 Competitiveness Programme of the Hungarian National Bank, seduction of Hungarians living abroad is also a priority goal. There is also a four-point proposal, the last point of which is to simplify the recognition and acceptance of diplomas obtained abroad. This is welcome, but, as the above example shows, this is not enough, it would also be necessary to extend it to professional qualifications acquired within the EU Member States. On the basis of the above, I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether the Government is planning to consider national recognition of professional qualifications in the EU Member States, and when it is expected that this will be possible. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-04-01-303	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2019-04-01-304	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, [[Intruder from Jobbik's benches: No, it's not true!]] Honourable Congressman, I always listen with interest when opposition parties attack the government because of developments in the labour market. [[Lajos Rig: It was a question, Mr. Secretary.]] It is worth recalling that when the current left-wing opposition [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: No way!]] Jobbik, therefore, was your new allies on the government, so they were able to tell employees and employers that they could get out of here. For everything to be conceived, with austerity packages, with withdrawal of resources [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] I've been put on high levels of unemployment and on the verge of leaving foreign exchange credentials to their own ends. On the other hand, wages have increased since 2010 and unemployment has decreased, and work is indeed able to provide a livelihood. [[Noise in Jobbik's benches.]] Despite all the artificial rumors, it becomes evident to many people that it is worth working in Hungary and returning to work in Hungary. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: They don't recognise professional qualifications!]] With regard to the adoption of vocational training and professional qualifications, the opposition is once again, including you, showing complete incompetence. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] The example you have mentioned is only subject to an official examination in Austria, while in relation to the handling of lifting machinery, we require a professional qualification for this type of activity, which is linked to this. So, in this case, it is not a professional qualification in Austria, but an official examination must be taken after a course has been completed. But to answer your question more specifically, in recent years, if you have watched, we have worked very hard to make vocational training and the acquisition of qualifications more flexible. This is why, in recent times, advisory bodies have been set up to bring the acquisition of professional qualifications closer to life and expectations. This means that it will be easier to obtain part-training and, for example, the problem that you have raised in the next period will be solved because it will be easier to obtain such a qualification and qualification. [[György Szilágyi: Kazan Treatment Exam for János Pócs! Noise from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-04-01-305	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the 2011 CCVI on the right of freedom of conscience and religion and on the status of churches, religions and religious communities. T/5244 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the amendment of law. The number of votes cast in the decision of point 21 of the summary amendment proposal was wrongly published. The number of votes cast is correct: 0 yes, 159 no and 33 abstentions. I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that T/5132 on the amendment of the law necessary for the implementation of the family protection action plan. The number of votes cast in the course of the decision of Amendment No 3 was incomplete. The number of votes cast is correct: 54 yes, 134 no and 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the publication of the Convention on the reciprocal protection of classified information between Hungary and Romania and the debate on the draft amending proposal follow. The government referral is T4358. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a maximum period of 15 minutes. I give the floor to László Horváth, rapporteur of the committee.
u2019-04-01-306	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 28 March 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the publication of the T4358 Convention on the Mutual Protection of classified information between Hungary and Romania. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. § 31 yes, 2 votes against, with zero abstentions. The Act on the Protection of classified information adopted on 11 December 2009 and entered into force on 1 April 2010 established the legal basis for the conclusion and application of bilateral confidentiality agreements. The new Convention replaces the agreements in force so far on the mutual protection of classified military information by ensuring compliance with international and internal legal changes and the provisions on classified information. This bill sets out the contact national security authorities, which are the National Security Inspectorate on the Hungarian side and the National Office on the Recording of Classified Data on the Romanian side. It provides for definitions and describes in Hungarian, Romanian and English how each national rating level and designation can be matched. It shall also specify access to classified information, security principles, security cooperation, sanctions in the event of a breach of security, and the management of classified contracts. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has been said above, we believe that this is a bill involving a number of positive changes, and we can talk about this, and I therefore ask for your support for the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-04-01-307	Thank you, Congressman. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás if he wants to comment now. [[Tibor Scones: No.]] No, thank you. The designated Committee on Foreign Affairs did not draft a rapporteur. We now have speeches from Members. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2019-04-01-308	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian-Romanian agreement on the exchange of classified information is already the very manyth convention in Hungary's legislative history, given that we have already concluded agreements of a similar nature with a large part of the EU and NATO member countries, after we have established the legal basis for this with our internal legal harmonisation. [[19.50]] At the plenary session, when this issue was already discussed, we made known to which countries such agreements have already been concluded, and it is true that with Romania, both as an EU member and as a joint NATO member, we are developing an increasingly important system of relations in which the exchange of such classified information is necessary at any time, and it is very important that we also address these issues in the relationship between these two countries. In view of this, of course, Jobbik's faction votes in favour of this bill, and we ask the Honourable Ministry of the Interior to urge all the countries with which we have not yet had this kind of relationship; given that the volume of defence purchases will be very tight in our relations with several countries in the future, since the stock of orders is not from one country, but from countless countries. We believe that there will be a need for the exchange of so much classified information in these circumstances, which justifies all the countries that are involved in these procurements as suppliers, but we do not yet have such agreements with them. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-04-01-309	Thank you, Congresswoman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-04-01-310	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I would like to thank the groups for their participation in the general debate on the law, and I would like to thank the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Legislative Affairs for their participation. With regard to the law, it is necessary to emphasise once again that the conclusion of the Convention contributes to strengthening cooperation in the fields of defence, home affairs, police cooperation and international organised crime and the fight against terrorism. Under the Convention, Hungary undertakes to protect classified information exchanged or generated under the Convention on the basis of the compatibility of the international classification levels set out in the Conventions. Following the general debate, a proposal for an amendment on entry into force and a language-placed amendment was submitted to the bill, which was discussed and supported by the Legislative Committee. In view of the fact that the international treaty serves Hungary's national interests, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-04-01-311	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the amendment of Law I of 2004 on sport and the discussion of the summarised amendment are now in order. T/5243 submitted by MEPs Erik Bánki and Zsolt Nyitrai. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mónika Dunai, rapporteur of the committee.
u2019-04-01-312	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 28 March 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/5243 amending Act I of 2004 on Sport. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. 28 votes in favour, 2 against and 3 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2010, the government declared sport a priority strategic sector because it recognised its importance for the long-term development of the country, as we know that sport has a positive impact on almost all sectors. It is therefore in the interests and future of the Hungarian nation that the promotion of sport into a national strategic sector is in the interests and interests of the Hungarian nation. The bill we are discussing now supports the increase and long-term deepening of the capital of sport diplomacy, an amendment to the legislation introducing a new organisation and an institution called the international sports association, which has not yet been recognised in the Hungarian sports association system. Consequently, the amendment defines the concept of a continental sports association. The draft also contains detailed rules on the founding of the newly introduced organisation in Hungary, in such a way that the founding can relate to a completely new organisation, i.e. its original founding, or the establishment of an existing sports association, i.e. the international sports association in Hungary with succession, thus creating the possibility of transferring the seat of an international sports association to Hungary. Only organisations recognised by the International Olympic Committee as an international association or recognised by a certain deadline may apply for registration. The necessary procedural rules for the establishment of the IOB's Declaration of Recognition and the existence of a statement of support from the Minister responsible for the area are binding on the founding. Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up, this proposal is in line with the objectives set out in the strategy and gives international sports associations the opportunity to place their seat in Hungary. The latter is particularly important because of the continuous, targeted, coordinated care and development of international sports diplomatic relations, and so it is also possible to organize conferences for large numbers of sports diplomats with significant international influence, which will result in a large number of guest nights and attract tourists with a high willingness to spend money in Hungary, the capital. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask that, if you really agree that sport must be promoted in Hungary, not only for itself, but also because sport, as I have said, has an impact on all sectors. [[Lajos Korózs: So you can steal more money! Look at the taolist.]] please support this amendment to the law that has been tabled. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Lajos Korózs intervenes.]]
u2019-04-01-313	Thank you, Congresswoman. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment now. [[For signal:]] No. On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, has indicated his wish to comment on the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-04-01-314	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The Government of Hungary's clearly defined objective in the field of sport and sport policy is to organise as many prestigious international competitions as possible, with a sufficient number and quality of sports infrastructure and as many children as possible to play sports in Hungary on a daily basis. This amateur sport is part of it. In order to achieve this threefold goal in full, an international sport event strategy will be drawn up, which will demonstrate in detail the goals set, the positive benefits of high-profile international sports competitions in the near future and in the future, which will include: In addition to Paris and London, Budapest should be one of Europe's three most important global sports capitals, strengthen competition in terms of both Olympic and Paralympic numbers, and build up sports diplomacy capital in Hungary, and strengthen social cohesion in order to ensure that Hungary is a sports nation. It is also very important for us, and this strategic goal includes the development, construction and beauty of Hungary's capital city, Budapest's home. The strategy is being discussed at the moment. I can tell you in this regard that Budapest is already a global sports capital. This is due to the following four factors. The number and rank of international sports events in the adult and age groups are also high. We are also at the forefront of the ever-expanding modern sports infrastructure. [[20.00]] Thirdly, we are a priority because of the popularity of sport and its role in national cohesion, as well as the growing international attractiveness of Budapest, among which economic and security aspects can be highlighted. So our proposed goal is to make Budapest one of the top three global sports capitals of Europe, alongside London and Paris. The tools for this are, of course, effective cooperation with Hungarian sports associations, the city of Budapest, international student, student and leisure sports associations and other associations and associations. In addition, it is important to maintain and manage international sports diplomacy. The development and operation of sport infrastructure and the management and professional organisation system introduced in the tendering system are also very important. We therefore believe that the bill before this House is capable of serving these strategic objectives and is capable of supporting the increase and long-term deepening of sports diplomacy capital. We see three main aspects. One is important for the continuous management and strengthening of international sports diplomatic relations. It is also important for us to be able to establish a permanent relationship with Budapest and Hungary through conferences for sports diplomats with international influence, and this, of course, will also result in a large number of guest nights, which will continue to support the recovery of tourism, i.e. tourism. Therefore, I would like to ask you to continue to support the bill that we are discussing tomorrow. The government will do that. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-04-01-315	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The designated Committee for Culture did not present a rapporteur, so now the speeches will be held by its representatives. Mr Ádám Steinmetz indicated his intention to comment. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-04-01-316	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, My fellow Member, Mónika Dunai, said that sport should be given priority. If anyone is, I totally agree with that. And with what the Secretary of State has said, so sport has a number of beneficial effects, and it must be said that Hungary has had a sports-loving government since 2010, especially competition sports enjoy subsidies that it has not received before. On the other hand, on this concrete bill, this is about inviting international sports associations to Hungary, and it does not, in fact, follow that international sporting events will also take place here. Obviously, this would be a huge prestige for Hungary, and it is no coincidence that my fellow Member Erik Bánki has submitted this law, and we have seen a number of positive bill proposals for sport in the past period, and let us think about raising the allowance for multiple Olympic medalists. So, basically, I am not against it, and we should even be happy to say that FINA or UEFA has its headquarters in Budapest, as well as the International Weightlifting Federation. It's all good and good. However, what I have opposed here in the parliamentary debate and before the Cultural Committee is the need for these international sports associations to receive state aid from Hungarian taxpayers' money, or even what is necessary to declare this in the text of the law. I do not feel that taxpayers' money should be spent on this; and, as my colleague Erik Bánki said, there are not even concrete negotiations on which sports associations would come here, then, I do not think it is also about the form in which these subsidies should be implemented in particular. And here is the other issue: here is the bill about inviting these sports associations to Hungary, not specifically to Budapest. We could have written in it, because if we were thinking rationally, then it is natural that a 2 million-dollar city, let's say, could create more pleasant conditions for the seat of a sports association, the infrastructure background in particular, like, say, Balatonboglar. But I do so, if someone wants to take their seat to Balatonboglar, I do not exclude the possibility of doing so, then what is necessary for the approval of the Minister responsible for the development of Budapest and the capital agglomeration, what is required to register the alliance in Balatonboglár? So I definitely think that if this is the direction, it would be the State Secretary responsible for sport of the EMMI that actually gives this approval. I don't really understand, the Prime Minister's Office doesn't have a role in sport, so I think it's worth thinking about. And then finally, it's just a sports professional idea that I've said before. This bill obliges the relocation of the seat to Budapest for the approval of the NOB, but, obviously, many international sports associations will fall away from this opportunity, and I think, or more in this Parliament, that it should not be denied the opportunity, say, from the international bodybuilding association or the international juice association, now that I mention just a few, even if at the moment these sports are not Olympic sports, and our international prestige cannot be measured, say, for a football or a handball, or to be a little biased, for water polo sports. And then Erik Bánki said that, of course, we can think about this during the process later, but I think that if we lay down and create such a law now, or amend such a law, then we could also consider these sports. So summa summarum, I will continue to maintain my amendments, and I ask the Parliament with respect to vote on these proposals separately tomorrow, and to give an opinion. Here today, a number of laws have been debated, at the end of which, on behalf of the ruling party and from the pro-government representatives, the request was made to the opposition to support this proposal and to support this initiative. Now I ask you to support these, I think, my sports mailings are absolutely well-founded and benevolent in my proposals for amendment. So I trust your generosity, and I trust your positive judgment. Thank you for listening. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2019-04-01-317	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone else wants to comment on the debate. [[There's no such signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I will ask Mr Erik Bánki if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-04-01-318	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking all my fellow Members who participated in the general debate of the bill here in Parliament and in its detailed debate at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and the Legislative Committee. I have responded to all opposition points in both forums, including those raised by Mr Ádám Steinmetz, of which the Legislative Committee responded to his question on competence and his proposal, and the Legislative Committee, in its amendment, raised the agreement of the Minister for Sport. Indeed, Mr President, you were absolutely right about that. The groundwork and the starting point, why it is the Prime Minister who is competent in this case, were justified, and the motivation was that this could have consequences and effects of such importance for the development of Budapest, which in any case justify this, since it may not only be a sports diplomacy success, a result, as my fellow Member Adam Steinmetz said, but indeed, this has a very serious tourist effect, not only with the competitions that will take place in Budapest, but also with the conferences, sports and federal conferences that may be organised by the associations that may be present here. But with appreciation and acceptance of the proposal of the Member, this was included in the amendment of the Legislative Committee, which I also supported as a rapporteur at the committee meeting. [[20.10]] The other point of discussion between us was why international alliances supported by and recognised by the International Olympic Committee are opening up to this opportunity, which is the result of the current amendment of the law. We are not only talking about Olympic sports, because the number of international alliances recognised by the International Olympic Commission is 35 and the number of Olympic sports is less than 30, so there is no complete overlap between the two. We think, and in this, Mr President, that in Parliament's debate, it is today the International Olympic Committee, which is the international association with the highest prestige in sport policy, and we thought that we should take the professional positions of the NOB as a starting point in this respect. I indicated to the Member of the general debate that, in two or three years' time, when we see whether there really is serious interest and whether the seat of international sports federations can be relocated to Hungary, or whether it is possible to secure the seat of sports associations that may be established here, and that we are progressing smoothly and smoothly, it is worth considering expanding this. I would remain open in this regard as an author, and the representative of the Government, Mr Secretary of State, indicated in the debate on the Legislative Committee that they were open to this. So I think that there is a kind of support from the government in this regard. I think that this bill really offers a very serious opportunity, because in Central Europe and Eastern Europe there is no outstanding international sports association that has its registered office, and the benefits of this would be enjoyed by the cities of any of the countries around us. So I think that this could be a very serious advantage not only in terms of tourism, not only in the field of sports diplomacy, but also in terms of the prestige of Hungary and Budapest. Not to mention, what I also said in the general debate is that this has a serious budgetary impact, as we calculate that the budget has a direct and indirect income of HUF 14-15 million after an employee. So by means of an international sports association that is established in Hungary, the Hungarian budget can earn more than one billion HUF annually. Finally, I would like to give a reassuring answer to Mr President's suggestion, which we have also said in both the general and the detailed debate. The Secretary of State, Balázs Fürjes, confirmed in the detailed debate that he does not intend to give the government any budgetary support to these associations that could in any way upset the moods or cause problems. I also said that the current international example shows that certain cities, in some countries, benefit from certain tax incentives. We do not plan to give them such support, but if competition in the market so requires, this may be justified. The law opened only one door, but I would like to reassure my fellow Members that, without the knowledge and support of Parliament, no budget forints will be spent to support international alliances. If so, and this will be necessary, such a motion will come before Parliament in the course of the debate on tax laws, but I say that there has not yet been a specific reason or a specific request for this, since we are not in negotiations from which this would follow. So all we wanted here was an opportunity not to have our hands tied in this regard, so if anyone on the part of sports policy or on the part of the Hungarian government negotiates on such matters, then have the opportunity and can show that this type of support can be used. But this, again, will not happen without the support of Parliament, and I guarantee it in this place as well. I would therefore like to ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of this bill in the final vote, as during the Commission debate, because I believe that this is not only in the interests of the people of Budapest, not only in the interests of Hungarian sport, but also in the interests of Hungary as a whole. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-319	Thank you, Congressman. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The debate on the Commission's report on the 2019 budget of the Television Film Mecenature follows. T/5220 submitted by the Committee on Budgets The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Zsolt V. Németh, if you would like to comment now. [[For signal:]] It says no. The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to present his position during the debate. The designated Committee for Culture did not present a rapporteur either, so now the speeches will be held by its representatives. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2019-04-01-320	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Actually, this bill is about setting the budget figure for the Film Mecenature. Even when the government created this new television film-making grémium, the opposition suspected that it would be another paying place. Then, when these few lines of proposals, setting out the budgetary framework, arrived, we were not so disappointed in this either. Mónika Karas, in the Committee on Budgets, said that this question was based on the budget number of institutions of a similar nature, given the fact that there are movie plans and ideas, but that the organisation has neither staff nor any organizational capacity, from which it could reasonably conclude the level of the necessary budgetary resources. To be honest, that was frivolous for me. We are talking about 7 billion forints, not 100 million, although that's not a small one, not many people saw it in one room. But to write for 7 billion forints, what is 6.5 billion forints for other expenses? They said that this organization was going to make television movies during its management in order to have ratings like Abigail or Süskevár or old series of films of this kind in 30 years' time. But when we're making a budget, what's the other thing we're spending it on? Because as the main task of the film, it cannot be any other edition; because the spending and basic spending of the organization will take place on the films. I'm sure that's no other expense. Other expenditure for companies is all that cannot be booked for the main activity, because there are other expenditures that are necessary for carrying out the activity, but not for financing its backbone, not its core activity. There is an investment of 100 million in this proposal, 245 million in real estate, 145 million in personal expenses, by the way, by stressing that it does not even have staff, and then there is this HUF 6 billion in HUF 500 million in other expenses. Of course, we all want quality films to be made, because as long as quality films are being screened, for example, the lies embarrassing many oppositions may not be heard on public television. So I think that we would like to spend all the money on seeing films with historical and lessons to be seen by our fellow countrymen, and not just any opposition Member, for example, his past assumptions about housing mafia, or even a word he said 15 years ago to any of my fellow Members, even eight or ten times a day. So we support any activity that conveys values to Hungarian society, because neither fear nor lies, which currently comes from public television, serve this. However, if a budget proposal had been put before us, I feel that it could have been supported by data. So if the financial government is very often able to present the budget to us at different stages, whether the annual budget or the amendment of the budget law, these proposals always contain certain directional parts, so that a Member of Parliament can decide that there will actually be as many films as there will be 6.5 billion, but if the cost of the film is not 6.5 billion, but of another, then what will be. I would very much like that, and I think that every Member, opposition, pro-government in this room... if we set these frames, and the head of the organization says that he could only estimate, virtually hit him on the stomach, and told the government to make 7 billion. [[20.20]] But it could be 20 billion, or just 1 billion, because we don't know how many movies or movies they're gonna make when it starts. So whether the production of a piece of film begins in the budget year 19 at all, for example, we do not even know, because this is defined by us to 19 is a budget figure of 19. Then we will certainly see the same in the next budget law, the '20s, in a certain way. But in 19 we see something like a number, such a statement, such a detail? We're gonna smack him in the stomach, push a yes button, make this field trip 7 billion this year. But what will they spend it on? I'm serious. We're just talking about getting the $7 billion this year. But March, no, it's April 1st, I'm sorry. Could this be April 1st prank? [[Defiance.]] So the point is that on 1 April, we are only discussing the end of the Commission's reports, and we will eventually, presumably, vote tomorrow, but we will certainly not start making films the day after tomorrow. So I think that around the end of the summer, we know that in the art world, grass doesn't grow in the summer, so in August-September, someone will definitely start working on this field trip. But what did we give them $7 billion for this year? Isn't it a start-up year? Or is it an introductory amount? You know what's interesting? That when they don't spend it, the government will say how much they've saved! Yeah, sure. He saved us a lot of money from which we don't know if that was necessary. I'm sorry, but I'm talking about these issues because everything at Fidesz is about money, the billions are practically flying around without counting, spending on this, on that, on that, we're just rushing our heads about who doesn't get the money from the Hungarian taxpayers. However, the fact that it may have been a well-intentioned initiative to create this mecenary is why society really needs quality Hungarian films and films, especially the historical ones, since many of our eras are still not actually being processed, but this does not mean that then all Members of Parliament will close their eyes, not even look at the amounts we are giving this year without a revised statement of what they are going to spend on, what is it, and why is 145 million personnel expenditure, and why this year's investment is still 100 million. Perhaps, let's say, in the detailed explanation, they could have written that we had already started building a building, or that we had started to buy one of those IT purchases, or that we had begun to acquire a set of equipment for filmmaking so that we could, say, do them with modern technology, so something. They bring him here, the MPs are here, they say 7 billion? 7 billion! Whatever it takes. We have so much money! From a budgetary point of view, this country is the Crossus itself! Come on, we have a government debt of HUF 30 000 billion, not to mention the government deficit. So I just wanted to say that with great respect, if everyone else is expected to be disciplined, accurate, professional, devotional, humbled, then do it, too, to put opposition representatives in a position, and I think it is also to say that government representatives, so that such a number is not a slam dunk, and someone says that we have started with the necessary costs of organisations of this kind, but we have already seen a scenario; this has also been said that we have already seen a scenario. But just because you saw a script on April 1st, why do you have to give me $7 billion this year? That's the big question, isn't it? So I have to say, although we said earlier that we would be happy to support any such initiative, but to be honest, if we want to justify our seriousness, then I will tell my faction that we should abstain, because we do not know whether this number is enough, many, few, and what it will be spent on this year. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-04-01-321	Thank you, Congresswoman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I will ask my colleague Zsolt V. Németh if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor.
u2019-04-01-322	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, No amendments were tabled to the bill on the 2019 budget of the Television Film Mecenature. At this stage of the debate, we should be discussing these amendments. This has not happened, so the summary has run out of reasons, and I do not wish to comment on it. By 13 votes in favour, with two abstentions, the committee adopted it without voting against and decided to submit it. I would certainly have to put forward an amendment to what we are debating here. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-323	Thank you, Congressman. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain financial legislation and the debate on the draft amending proposal. The government referral is T/5234. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a maximum period of 15 minutes. I give the floor to László Horváth, rapporteur of the committee.
u2019-04-01-324	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee held on 28 March 2019 discussed the T/5234 amendment of certain laws on financial matters. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. 46th parliamentary decision of the year 2004 By 23 votes in favour, 5 against and 4 abstentions. Dear House, The government has put a great deal of emphasis on the whitening of the Hungarian economy, thus reducing the black economy, for which we have already introduced a number of measures. In this bill, it is important to highlight the establishment of a basic regulation for the connection of automated equipment without handling to the tax authority, as it will also be transparent in the future for the taxation of revenue from individual vending machines. In addition, the proposal proposes a further effective boost to the purchase of sovereign debt by the general public. An important economic policy objective for the government is to increase the sale of sovereign debt to the population, as the growth of domestic sovereign debt holdings reduces the vulnerability and exposure of the Hungarian economy. The proposed new rule exempts interest income from the payment of personal income tax from public sovereign debt. The exemption rule applies to series of sovereign debt sold to the general public issued from 1 June 2019. In order to ensure the availability of sovereign debt to the general public in as many locations as possible, the proposed amendment to the Housing Savings Bank Act will allow housing savings banks to deal with the future distribution of state paper. Ladies and gentlemen, Overall, the bill contains forward-looking provisions on the whitening of the economy and on the purchase of sovereign debt, so I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the proposal tabled. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-325	Thank you, Congressman. I'll ask Mr. Gábor Gion, Secretary of State, if you'd like to comment now or at the end. [[Gábor Gion: In the end.]] All right. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpat.
u2019-04-01-326	Mr President, Dear House, There is always an illusion in me that there can be a specific, serious professional discourse in Parliament on specific professional issues. The fact is that what my fellow Member has said here could form the basis for a normal debate. We have also had a fair debate with Mr State Secretary, and I have no doubt that we can repeat this. However, I clearly see the intentions behind this proposal and forgive me, but I am obliged to talk about what you are not talking about here. The fact is that if we are talking about the possibility of the sovereign debt distribution of housing savings banks, we cannot, in particular, leave out, in the shadow of a demographic package, why the state leg and state support of housing savings had to be plowed in. [[20.30]] Mr. Secretary of State may be able to answer me that if Hungarian young people were able to collect their share of the CSOK with LTP, and now, without housing savings, they cannot collect their share of the CSOK, then whether it serves our demographic goals or does not serve our demographic goals. The fact is, instead of state support for housing savings, nothing has been worked out by this government, and I would also like to tell you what the huge problem is. This also eats the Hungarian future from one side, but here in a typical life situation, say 80 percent of the Hungarian condominiums have typically saved on boiler replacements and renovation works with different LTP forms. I am sure that these anomalies and problems will occur on the Hungarian market within a phase delay, but within 3-5 years, so the government is putting total social groups at a disadvantage. This cannot be offset by the proposal before us, it cannot compensate for the fact that certain housing savings banks may even deal with the distribution of sovereign debt where appropriate. These companies are now trying to attract customers from their own strength, as far as they can be assessed, with a 5% bonus, if appropriate. I don't think this is the way of the future, by the way. The 30 percent so far may have been abnormally high, but then it would have been necessary to regulate this environment rather than abolish the institutions and the State aid leg that has provided solutions for many. What I find scandalous about the whole transaction fee and financial policy is what we have already drawn attention to. According to my statement, a financial transaction fee has not yet been paid by a bank in Hungary, not a single forint, ever. Technically, the contributor may be the financial institution concerned, but in a declarative, confessed manner, the entire existing burden has been transferred to customers. We've had a small contractor, I'll say it again, entrepreneur, not individual, who presented the bank's justification that his fee will rise by this and that in the year when the transaction fee is levied, and they'll ask for it to be paid back for the month. The justification: because the Government of Hungary imposed the transaction fee. It's on paper, a confession from the commercial bank. What were we supposed to expect? The strong, brutal response of financial consumer protection towards public burdens. Compared to this, consumer protection and financial supervision in the MNB were so weak and impotent on this issue that it said that it did not really have the power to act in this regard. Then the government came with a completely intelligent initiative, although it would have been even better if this full transfer mechanism had been removed, but at least for transactions below the threshold of HUF 20,000, it would have made it easier, and for those above HUF 20,000 it would have maximized the fee still unduly paid, because we are talking again about a transfer mechanism, but then from this positive change you were able to withdraw with the justification that you needed the money for the family support package. Please, does the transfer of the transaction fee not concern the same families that we would like to benefit from the demographic package? Is it not possible that this demographic package will be even more braked by the fact that you are leaving this amazing transfer mechanism in place? Does it bother your psyche, your soul, your ego at all that you've brought in a piece of legislation that you've charged, you intend to burden the commercial banks involved, and then there's a pass-through that the taxpayer of the tax or, in this case, wasn't the commercial bank, just technically, because you built these items into your luggage? So you made a law that the subjects of the law didn't comply with. This amazing violation should bother you, it would be healthy for you to sleep badly and intervene. And if financial supervision or consumer protection say that it has no powers, then it is necessary to establish these powers and opportunities for it, then we should now debate such legislative proposals in this House. The thing is, that's not what we're doing right now, it's cosmetic again. It is the same as in the population package, say, the four-year-old mother's absence, which I otherwise support, but the original proposal would also have been about mothers with three children, a much more extensive social group, because if we look at four children, we find that we can talk about fewer than 50 thousand people involved, a fraction of them in employment, and a fraction of them are earning a measurable amount of money that this tax exemption helps them. We see, from the transaction fee, through the ploughing of the state leg of the housing savings to the 27 percent basic food tax, to the 27 percent VAT on child-rearing articles, that this government allows a net looting mechanism to operate, and from the other direction it allows the unspoiled pass-on that should not otherwise be allowed in such a climate and environment. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-04-01-327	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman László Varga.
u2019-04-01-328	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, At the meeting of the Legislative Committee, I made a criticism of the proposal concerned, especially given that it was part of the proposal, as has been said here before me earlier, that it would have made a significant reduction and a reduction in the transaction fee, on which the criticism was also raised, which is true that it is actually paid by the Hungarian families, which is a very serious indirect tax burden, the Hungarian banking charges and costs are actually among the most important in Europe, which is a very serious tribute to Hungarian families. So if they are serious about family-friendly politics, then obviously this tax burden, this very heavy levy, should be eliminated. The fact is that you have pressed this, it was part of this proposal, and then, with a surprising turn of events, shortly before the meeting of the Legislative Committee, the Economic Commission would have actually suggested that this part be removed, in Hungarian, that the situation which is currently in place should remain the unacceptable rate of the transaction fee. I made a proposal in the Legislative Committee that we should not decide on this in the same package as on the summary amendment, in fact, but that it should be possible to vote on this point separately, in Hungarian, not to say that it should be decided in the same package as other amendments, otherwise in the right direction. No, there was an opportunity for you to make a decision on the transaction fee alone, and I see, therefore, that you are choosing to maintain the current level, which we clearly consider to be harmful, no matter how you do so, and whatever you refer to in this regard. I would therefore like to inform this House that a separate decision has been taken at the meeting of the Legislative Committee, so it is very clear about your policy regarding transaction fees and the Hungarian banking costs, which is unacceptable. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2019-04-01-329	Thank you, Congressman. Dániel Z. Carpathian indicated that he wanted to speak to him again. You have the floor.
u2019-04-01-330	Mr President, Dear House, The problem is that the fate of the country cannot be better, and, if necessary, the words that we say can remain in the wilderness, but at least the protocol and the Internet dividers can help us to make this governmental passivity as broad as possible, to see that it should be spectacular, and I know that it will be very strange from me, but it is a hairy behavior that you are doing on these issues. [[Defiance.]] I would like to tell you, with regard to the transaction fee, we are expecting a budget revenue of 220 billion in this period. This HUF 220 billion will be passed on to customers in the net, so that this was not the intention of the legislator. You are therefore releasing HUF 220 billion from the hands of Hungarian families and Hungarian people, while losing 70 billion, say, from state support for housing savings in order to save money, but in the interest of the banks 220 billion loosely... Please, Mr State Secretary, declare whether there is any connection with the pacts signed with the EBRD in 2015, whether there is any connection with the agreement that you have undertaken to make the banking business no more difficult in this financial climate, but also with your clients. I would be very interested to know how much you are bound by this pact, how you personally see an opportunity for Hungary to exceed this pact and, if necessary, break it up. I can also accept that if the Government of Hungary and the Banking Association sit down with each other and agree that this insolence is untenable as it was over 600 billion forints in the last financial period, the banking sector has made record revenue in Hungary. [[20.40]] Secretary of State, at regional level, you can't find a percentage of this pair anywhere. There is no country in the region where this looting mechanism could work. I'll extend the picture a bit, if you don't mind, because I still have a few more seconds. The top 10 multi-company companies, which are the subject of an investigation, pay almost 20 percent in the Czech Republic, are involved in public burdens. The same companies, all the same in Hungary, undertake a tax burden of less than 5 percent. It's a robbing mechanism, Mr. Secretary. Don't put up with this. Give yourselves enough to keep this thing going. My support, our faction, will be supported if this looting mechanism is at least slowed down and then obviously stopped. From the 220 billion-dollar transaction tax passed on, which is budget revenue waiting, the facilitation you have just submitted, so it's not our own idea, it's about 2-5 percent of the total amount. And now this 2-5 percent will be taken from the Hungarian families in quotes, with the reference to giving it to the Hungarian families and the family support package in their other pockets. And 220 billion are allowed to flow from the pockets of Hungarian people, customers, from the register of Hungarian families. I know it's gonna be awkward, and it's probably boring, but I'll take it, I'll have to bring in the situation of those with foreign currency credit. One of the victims was sitting behind us today in the box, beaming the strength into us as we talked about his case, and many fellow Members laughed on the pro-government side, acted flugmanically, did not give respect to this man and this life situation. However, in view of the fact that millions of foreign exchange credit contracts, of the families behind them, because they are not barcodes, but people, they also have housing goals, they have childbearing goals, if we just looked at the fact that from behind the millions of contracts 10,000 children were not born in the lower voice of the desired children, and if we had broken this down to the years of your governance since 2010, we could now have discussed a much more positive fertility rate and much better living data in the demographic debate. It depends on these, Mr Secretary of State and fellow Members, on attitude, humanity, and indeed on the fact that such freaky games that are in front of us should not continue. Do not give in to the pressure of banks, do not make a pact with them, and stand up for the interests of the Hungarian people, Hungarian customers! In this regard, if they are able to do so, they can certainly count on our support. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-04-01-331	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed. I will ask Mr Gábor Gion, State Secretary, if you would like to comment. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-04-01-332	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, In recent days, Parliament has discussed a bill amending certain laws on financial matters, which includes both amendments to encourage longer-term retail savings and rules on the registration of automatic equipment, and I would like to remain on the subject. I would very much like to debate the banking system more broadly, but I do not think that is what we have here on the agenda. If I see that no change proposal has been submitted to the Government's amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, then I conclude that you agree that this will increase the public's willingness to buy sovereign debt by not having any public burden on the purchased paper today. So the tax reduction you're missing is included, right, in a different form, in the bill. The adoption of the bill thus exempts interest income on sovereign debt series issued to the general public from the payment of personal income tax and other public charges as of 1 June 2019. In a few years, we expect a positive change to double the stocks of sovereign debt purchased by the population. With tax and public burden-freeness, small investors buying sovereign debt, i.e. the general public, because their interest income is not reduced and spending increased income can have a positive impact on the development of internal consumption. At the same time, the foreign exposure of the Hungarian economy will be reduced with the expected increase in sovereign debt stocks and debt financing will continue to stabilise. Experience has shown that the population is a highly reliable investor, the customers typically keep the papers permanently, and rarely want to get rid of them suddenly. These processes have already been positively assessed by the credit rating agencies, and we hope that our actions will have a positive impact on further investigations as well. It is also likely that you will be supported by a proposal that will allow housing savings banks to deal with the distribution of sovereign debt in the future, so that this investment can be made in as many places as possible. That's the point. As far as home savings products are concerned, they have not ceased. The excessive state aid that contributed to this at all international levels, which the government considered to be less effective than other family support and home-building programmes, has been abolished. House savings products have been in existence ever since. Dear Parliament, The bill also covered rules on the registration of automatic equipment. In this context, the proposed amendment, supported by the Legislative Committee, aims at simplifying the definition of automatic equipment and, on the other hand, at facilitating the interpretation of the law and the application of the law, by clarifying that the content of the reporting will be determined by a ministerial regulation. Let me have two more words about the transaction fee. The transaction fee was broken as early as January 1 for transactions below HUF 20,000. A further reduction in the levy, if any, of the transaction levy, will be considered later. That's not off the table. I would like your votes to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-333	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is the 1996 CXVI on nuclear energy. Act and LIII of 2006 on the acceleration and simplification of the implementation of investments of major importance for the national economy. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/5239. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. You have the floor.
u2019-04-01-334	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 28 March 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the 1996 CXVI on nuclear energy. Act and LIII of 2006 on the acceleration and simplification of the implementation of investments of major importance for the national economy. T/5239. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report shall be drawn up by the Committee in accordance with Article 10/2014 of the Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary resolution No 46. By 23 votes in favour, 5 against and 4 abstentions. The amendment consists primarily of proposals relating to the revision of certain procedural rules, as well as technical clarifications of a legal nature. Its adoption is justified by the need to establish additional rules in accordance with certain procedural laws and to establish regulatory consistency. On the basis of the proposals, it is also important, on the basis of a review of the deadlines for administration, to have the appropriate time at the disposal of the authority and administration. The reason for the need for the amendments is that the administrative deadline available to the Authority or the administration in certain authorisation procedures of the new nuclear power plant is not sufficient. [[20.50]] Dear House, The Paks Nuclear Power Plant lays the foundations for Hungary's electricity production. More than half of the domestic electricity generation is provided by the nuclear power plant by providing a cheap electricity guarantee, as well as by determining the domestic carbon-free electricity supply, which contributes in a sustainable way to the preservation of air cleanliness. The main role and function of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is to produce electricity in a safe, reliable, inexpensive and environmentally friendly way. The legislative amendments also contribute to the continued high-quality and high-quality work of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant in Hungarian power generation and to the realisation of future investments and developments. In view of this, I ask for the support of the bill in the vote. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-04-01-335	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask Mr Péter Cseresnyés State Secretary if he wishes to comment now. [[For signal:]] It says no. The designated Economic Committee did not draft a rapporteur, so now the representatives' contributions will follow. First, I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes.
u2019-04-01-336	Thank you for this opportunity, Mr President. In the introduction of the bill, we can read that there are minor amendments to the authorisation procedure, and we can also find changes of a legal nature in the bill. In terms of its contents, the government has realised that a nuclear power plant cannot be approved in Hungary in 40 or a few days. We can say that basically a very bad piece of legislation is being used, obviously we are not involved in this, there is no point in proposing an amendment, and the LMP faction will reject this bill. At the same time, it must be said, for some thought, that the biggest problem, however, is the big project that is being dealt with by this bill. An irresponsiblely prepared, recklessly prepared giga project is the Paks expansion, which is indebted to Hungary for generations. You used to justify giving this investment to the Russians without a tender, because they're the only ones who can make the investment. It has now become apparent that the Russians have not been able to produce the plans, at least until now, in accordance with EU and Hungarian standards. Accordingly, the permits should be ready, so the permits should be available, but the authorisation procedure has not even started, since the Russians have not prepared any plans and, in the absence of a plan, the authorisation procedure has not been initiated. In fact, the government acknowledged the extremely significant slippage. Accordingly, all the arguments in favour of the Paks enlargement have already been made in concrete terms. You said that the price of electricity generated by the new blocks would pay off the Russian giga loan. Well, we'll have to pay off this loan from 2026, but we're not gonna have these new receipts anywhere. It further adds to the problems that there is no solution to the disposal of high-activity waste. Neither the technology is available, I would add, anywhere in the world there is no storage for high-activity nuclear waste, no funding for this and no location. We know that there is a national programme for the disposal of high-activity radioactive waste. They're doing research in one place, near Pécs, in Boda's area. In 2015, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán personally promised the inhabitants of the region that there would be no nuclear cemetery in the region without their consent. Compared to this, they would not have given the inhabitants of the region the opportunity to express their views, but they have modified this particular nuclear law in such a way that they no longer have the legal opportunity to intervene in this procedure. I have one question: I do not know if Mr President can answer, or if Mr Secretary of State can answer. Over the past few months, we have suffered a great deal by asking the ministers or members of the government about the project, and we have received no meaningful answer. I also had to ask Prime Minister the last time, and he only replied that we should ask Minister János Süli without his wallet. In particular, the government will give me no answer; perhaps Congressman will be able to answer me. You are always talking about it, and now you have said, Congressman, that it will be environmentally friendly and cheap electricity that the new blocks of Paks will produce. I would like to ask Mr President if you have any idea how much decommissioning, decommissioning of the nuclear power plant and the power plant to be built will cost to dispose of high-activity waste. I can only give you a professional estimate of the latter, which is estimated at HUF 1600 billion, and the cost of decommissioning is approximately equal to the cost of investment and construction. If you consider these thousands of billions of forints, do you agree, or do you continue to believe that we can talk about cheap electricity here? Thank you very much.
u2019-04-01-337	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Bence of Tordai.
u2019-04-01-338	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We also need to say here that Paks II investment is an expensive and dangerous plant, which is expensive not only because we buy from the Russians an outdated technology, which has costs that are not planned for the electricity price, but also because we have to pay a high price in political terms: dependence on Putin Russia and dependence on the Russian bear, which, in financial terms, chain Hungary to the Russian bear for generations. If you may not assume too much about Hungarian voters, don't be offended that I don't assume too much about you, so I'll put it very simply, so that you can understand: this is dangerous. The nuclear power plant is usually dangerous. Even though they tell us that it is in vain that they are pushing through 100 million public relations campaigns to see how safe nuclear power plants are, any accident that takes place in a nuclear power plant is incomparably more dangerous than possible accidents in any other power generation unit. So in this case, when such a dangerous plant and such a clumsy, incompetent design team are assembled, you will specifically pour oil on the fire by trying to speed up procedural deadlines and time limits for authorisation. Let's see the numbers. The Paks expansion managed by Fidesz brought together nine years of delays in five years. So when they first came up with specific numbers, they said that the new Paks blocks could start up by 2023, and now we're at 2032. You have a license for this project around 320, and there are over 6,000 missing. By the way, these figures did not change substantially between March of this year and last summer, and no progress has been made. We know that the Russians do not have the completed permit plans, and we know that the same power plant in Finland has already failed in practice, in the first European Union country, where a serious supervision of this new nuclear power plant has been seriously controlled. It must also fail in Hungary. What are you doing now? Since they cannot resist Russian pressure, they are simply relaxing the authority force, the security that the operation of the National Atomic Energy Office can guarantee to the Hungarian population, they are trying to eliminate themselves. Our problem here is that they're playing with our future, they're playing with our health, they're playing with our lives in order to compensate for the nine-year delay you've brought together in five years with a few months of time cuts. This is absolutely amazing, ridiculous! There really aren't any words. So it would be good if I finally didn't look at the interests of Putini, not the interests of the Paks expansion at all costs, but a little bit of security interests in Hungary. And I really don't mean geopolitics, not political federal systems, not a long-term strategy, but simply that a secure power plant should be built when it comes to nuclear power plants. However, the Dialogue takes the view that it is neither necessary nor possible, since there is no safe nuclear power plant. What would be safe alone is decentralised energy production, investment in renewables. This is what would cover Hungary's entire energy demand. Jávor Benedek, MEP and colleagues of the Dialogue, prepared the green energy strategy that we have just handed over to Minister János Süli, who asked what would cover Hungary's energy needs in the coming decades, if not nuclear energy. The good news is that, yes, it is possible to cover Hungarian energy needs by investing in energy efficiency, reducing energy demand and making better use of renewable energy sources. Paks II is not needed, Paks II. Dear, Paks II. He'll never make it back, and Paks II. It's extremely dangerous. The Hungarian government is adding these dangers to this bill and practically every step of the matter. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-04-01-339	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman László Hajdu, and I will say good-bye to you for now. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] [[21.00]]
u2019-04-01-340	Mr President, Mr. Secretary. In the debate on the subject, I said, and I would like to express myself briefly now. I think that the danger that lies in the accelerated procedure or in a simplified procedure is unclear and that there is no correct definition of what this particular accelerated procedure and simplified procedure is. There are also wordings to try this simplification and acceleration with the legal technical review, but it is not very much about what is about technical security, what is going on with other security issues. I just want to point out that authorisation has a lead time even if we want to speed it up. For example, the Paks II. The geographical and hydrogeological obstacle to the power plant is how, for example, the cooling system will operate depending on the water level of the Danube. In fact, one of the governments of this power plant is cooling itself. If the Danube's dry weather water is terribly low, what will the cooling be made of? How can an accelerated procedure be based on the water level of the Danube... resulting in the permit to be granted, so how will the cooling issue be resolved. This cannot be done in an accelerated way, it is such a climate and water retention issue. Water retention is currently not included in Paks II as to how Paks I and Paks II can cooperate or operate at the same time, otherwise planned for about ten years. If we consider that currently Paks I. has little water level in the Danube, at least in the summer because we had to turn off a reactor because we couldn't supply cooling water, then how will this work when two power plants are installed with the same Danube water station? Other authorisation procedures shall be clearly activated here. I'm guessing that there can be no obstacle to the accelerated procedure when we're talking about where the spent fuel will be placed. There can't be an accelerated procedure. I think we need serious communication there, lots of other things. What does this accelerated procedure really mean? 'Cause if you're gonna have to do the groundwork faster, that's at the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, you might expect something, but you don't expect a lot in the long run. And there is also the question of whether this accelerated procedure could give you immunity and authorisation in terms of the need for a very serious new human workforce if Paks II. Enter. Will there be so many engineers, so many operators, so many experienced, who can be used immediately in such an accelerated process, and can solve these dangerous artifacts with professional skill? I think it is possible, of course, that if it is a Russian power plant, Russian design, then Russian experts can be brought in, and then Russians will operate the whole thing, and it will be Russian credit, so there will be nothing that is Hungarian in this. This is my fear, and that is why I asked for a word that the accelerated procedure for security is very dangerous, especially the provision of simplified and legal concessions and technical concessions. Thank you very much.
u2019-04-01-341	Good evening. Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else would like to comment on the agenda in the remaining timeframe. [[There's no candidate.]] I declare that no, the debate is closed. I'll ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State, if you'd like to reflect. [[For signal:]] It says yes. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-04-01-342	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to respond because I would like to draw the attention of the opposition representatives of the Parliament to the fact that this is a detailed debate. It's supposed to be a detailed debate, but then you guys made a general debate out of it. Probably, although I was not here in the debate as a whole, I was here for a few minutes when the general debate on this draft law was taking place, probably Secretary Kaderjak, after you said this series of points there too, or you gave me a map of problems, a set of questions, and responded to it in a proper way. But since you probably didn't want to accept what Mr Secretary of State said or didn't understand what you're talking about, I would like to mention a few things, in terms of the areas that you have brought here, so that someone doesn't accidentally, if you're following Parliament's work at this late hour, believe that you're right in the suggestions you've made. And I'd just like to touch on the more serious areas. Mr Lóránt László Keresztes expressed the question with great concern as to how much Paks I's decommissioning will cost and whether there is any coverage at all. Perhaps it was last week on the part of the LMP, if I remember correctly, as a question before Parliament, this area, if it had been here, would have been watching or asking its fellow factions or allies what was said in response, would not have asked this question, Mr Group Leader. You know very well that, by the way, the Paks I plant will put a very large amount of money, tens of billions of forints a year, into the fund that will ensure this decommissioning, as well as the disposal of the radioactive waste and the operation of the site and warehouse, after Paks I's production has ceased. So, in fact, you have brought here a general debate in which you have already received the answer during the previous general debate. It is difficult to add anything to my colleague Bence Tordai's comments and suggestions without feeling any more serious emotions or emotions, because I feel that you and you are actually telling me, in fact, for your own sake, many times, what you are saying about the use and utilisation of nuclear power, to believe that what you are saying is true. But life denies you, for example, in saying nuclear power plants are dangerous. If we call the nuclear power plant dangerous, then why say a fossil power plant that endangers our health in a different way? There are very serious problems, for example, in countries where nuclear power plants are being pushed into the background, and in other ways, not through renewable energy, they must now solve energy provision and electricity provision. So I believe that one of the safest ministers of Minister János Süli could say this in a more expert and credible way, he has told you many times in Parliament that one of the safest energy sources and greenest energy sources is nuclear energy, which, if properly operated, under appropriate conditions and appropriate security measures, can produce the most secure and least environmentally harmful energy in the long term, in the cheapest way. That's why we chose this solution. How much they try, how much they try to mislead public opinion? In your comment, you brought here, as an interesting or perhaps as a wake-up call for attention, the short interviewer today, when our fellow Member Kocsis-Cake Olivio handed over to Minister what material I do not know, and Minister, after about 15 seconds of searching, proved that what you are saying here in your comments is misleading. As a warning, we are protected from using the nuclear power plant as an energy source, and they tell us that all this shortage, which, perhaps, would not be caused by the lack of nuclear power there, could be resolved, say, from renewable energy. In that material, you prove that you couldn't solve it. [[21.10]] There are tables that show that you, too, are trying to use fossil energy at a time when renewable energy is not available, to generate energy in order to achieve energy security. So at least be consistent. They say everywhere and write down what they say, or we have to assume that you want to deceive Hungarian citizens and Hungarian people. However, since this is not a general debate, but rather a detailed debate where a Commission amendment came in, I would ask you, the honourable Parliament, to adopt the Commission's proposal to close the detailed debate adopted at the Committee on Economic Affairs and, on this basis, a proposal for a comprehensive amendment of the Legislative Committee, a proposal for an amendment containing technical clarification with a view to linguistic clarity, when voting. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-04-01-343	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain legislation on climate policy and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow up. The government referral is T/5240. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in a 15-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Congressman László Vécsey, rapporteur of the committee. I would like to draw your attention, honourable Member, to the fact that you can say this in no more than eight minutes. Here you go.
u2019-04-01-344	Thank you for the warning, and thank you for the word. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 28 March 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/5240 amendment of certain climate policy laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Parliament's resolution of 10/2014 on certain house rules. By 23 votes in favour, 1 against and 1 abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill contains changes that are of particular importance for the national economy. The 2007 LX on the implementation framework for the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol. Act CCXVII of 2012 on participation in the Community greenhouse gas trading scheme and the implementation of the effort-sharing decision. Act XXVI of 2006 on legal harmonisation and security stockpiling of natural gas As a result of the adoption of a proposal for a small amendment to the Act, our country will comply with its legal harmonisation obligation from EU membership within the deadline and the administrative burden on economic operators will be reduced. The corrections made shall contribute to achieving a cost reduction related to industrial energy and ensure that a higher quantity of natural gas can be stored for security purposes. Ladies and gentlemen, It is clear that this bill, this amendment, is partly necessary, partly firmly and effectively serving the objectives set, and not least based on a proposal based on a professional basis. I ask you to support this proposal tomorrow. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-04-01-345	Thank you very much, Congressman. The minority opinion will now be presented within a maximum timeframe of seven minutes. Congressman László Varga, please.
u2019-04-01-346	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, There may be some purpose to this proposal, a question of what that purpose was. If the Hungarian chemical industry is heavy or how should I put it? making its circumstances more difficult, it can also serve this purpose, as the situation of the chemical industry is in any event difficult to present. As of 1 May 2019, it is proposed that the stockpiling fee paid for the purchase of natural gas purchased for chemical purposes will cease to be refundable. This possibility was introduced by you from 1 January 2017. Almost unanimous decision was made here in this House at the time. This decision was particularly beneficial for the competitiveness of the domestic chemical industry at the time, even in the explanatory memorandum. The question is what has changed in this regard in the last two years. Let me put this on the table as a representative of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, as I believe that the chemical industry has a very serious tradition here and has a very serious economic role in the county's life. It is one of the few sectors that did not suffer as much as, where appropriate, mining or heavy industry or mechanical engineering. So we are definitely talking about an area that is very important in the county's life. Today, therefore, we are not understanding this amendment. What I can tell you is that the goal is not quite clear. Maybe there's some kind of economic conflict in this, I can't tell. In any case, we have made a proposal with my fellow Members to make it different. We raised this, along with the MSZP members of the Legislative Committee, we submitted a TAB's own amendment, which unfortunately was not supported. That is why I am now giving this minority opinion. Once again, I say to you that it is not entirely clear what has changed in the last two years, what has made a situation two years ago, this kind of reclaimability, desirable as a competitive aspect here in this House, and what has now changed in this respect. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2019-04-01-347	Thank you very much. I will ask the author, Mr Secretary of State, if he wishes to speak now. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to the seller of the designated Committee for Sustainable Development, Mr László Böröcz. You have six minutes, Congressman. Here you go.
u2019-04-01-348	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Sustainable Development held a detailed debate on the bill at its meeting on 25 March. The Committee concluded that T/5204 should be amended accordingly. No. 44 of the House Regulations, amending the Act concerning certain climate policy matters, is in line with the provisions of the House Regulations. Article 4 (1) of the Statute, and the additional legal and legislative requirements under the Fundamental Law. The proposal is the 2007 LX on the implementation framework for the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol. Act CCXVII of 2012 on the participation of the Community greenhouse gas trading system and the implementation of the effort-sharing decision. Act CCVI of 2006 on legal harmonisation and security stockpiling of natural gas. contains a minor amendment to the Act. As a result of the adoption of the bill, our country will comply with its obligation to harmonise legislation on climate policy within the deadline of EU membership. Installations will be able to remove their equipment from the European Union Emissions Trading System in accordance with the conditions laid down, thereby reducing the administrative burden on economic operators. As an impact of the measure, the costs of operators requesting discharge may be reduced by around HUF 10 million per year, thus reducing costs related to industrial energy and, in the natural gas sector, the amendment clearly ensures that a higher quantity of natural gas can be stored for security purposes under unchanged consumer burden. As a result of this amendment, the stockpiling fee should be paid again after non-energy gas use, which would ensure the financing of further strategic stocks. The Committee for Sustainable Development adopted Article T/5240/3. The Commission adopted an amendment closing a detailed debate on the subject, which contains technical and linguistic specifications, as well as editorial specifications. I urge you to support the adoption of this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[21.20]]
u2019-04-01-349	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by Members within the time-frame on the agenda. I would like to inform you that there is no possibility of a two-minute comment during this debate. First up, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the LMP faction. Here you go.
u2019-04-01-350	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Mr President, Here there are basically legislative harmonisation elements in this bill and other technical amendments, but it is also worth commenting on this topic in general. I would now like to raise points that have not been raised in the general debate, so that no answer has been received. You start with migration on virtually every topic and finish with migration. I think it is entirely agreed that climate change, extreme weather phenomena or the narrowing of agricultural production opportunities are very strongly linked to the root causes of migration, and we know that millions of people will become climate refugees in the medium term. It is also quite clear that effective action against the global migration crisis is a matter of fate for all Hungarians, a matter of fate for all of Europe, and we also see that the European Union's political elite and, moreover, the Hungarian government have failed to take meaningful measures to address the root causes of migration. Not so long ago, we saw the Hungarian government vetoing the EU's climate strategy, thus effectively preventing a procedure, an action that could have been meaningful in order to reduce migratory pressure. I am very confident that, in this connection, either Member or Secretary of State, the Hungarian public can give some explanation that it is, in practice, Fidesz, who has acted as the political force that supports migration most clearly in Europe, but in Hungary. It is quite clear that energy policy has a strong link with climate policy. I take advantage of the fact that you are sitting here, Mr Secretary, and I would then make such a rejoinder, we have just talked about decommissioning costs and the disposal of high-activity nuclear waste, and I have also heard your reply to Mr Secretary of State. Currently, 250 billion HUF is available in the Central Nuclear Financial Fund, but Paks I and Paks II. The costs of decommissioning and the cost of disposal of high-activity waste are also reduced to HUF 2300 billion; that is why we keep asking our questions, Mr. Secretary of State. Given that the amount available is about one tenth of what is expected to be needed, how does the government intend to raise the costs of decommissioning in Paks and the cost of disposing of high-activity waste? Thank you.
u2019-04-01-351	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Congressman Bence Tordai, Dialogue.
u2019-04-01-352	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the general debate, I drew attention to the fact that the re-regulation of gas storage charges which do not fit the Climate Law could serve only one purpose, namely to force an enemy large entrepreneur out of his own business. I specifically referred here to the Nitrogénművek and its owner, László Bige, when the Secretary of State replied that when this reclaimability was introduced three years ago, they also benefited this entrepreneur or the company in his interest, as well as other chemical companies. The problem now seems to have changed since then in Fidesz's economic background the power relations and aspirations have changed, since at the end of last year there was a raid on three hundred policemen at the Nitrogénművek. Obviously it was a demonstration of strength, it's the usual mafia method: we're going into the pub, we're going to smash the place, and then we're going to ask for protection money; Fidesz is playing with Bige László. A few years ago, Viktor Orbán tried to eliminate the corruption accusation by not seeing Fidesz among the ten richest Hungarians. Now, it seems they don't want to see much of a non-fidesz among the ten richest Hungarians, they want to submit to everyone who has visible, meaningful assets. I think it's quite clear that this multibillion-dollar strike is really directed against one company and one owner. It has not been possible to deny this information, this calculation, that it is intended to cause a loss of billions of forints to a particular sphere of interest, so I would like to see that we can respond to this in a meaningful way and not hear the argument that was not convincing the other day. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2019-04-01-353	Thank you very much. I ask you, Honourable Parliament, if anyone else would like to speak out against the remaining time frame. [[No signal coming through.]] I'm gonna say no. The debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to react. [[On the sign of Péter Cseresnyés:]] Secretary of State Cherry, here you go.
u2019-04-01-354	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to respond briefly to what has been said. Don't take this the wrong way, Mr President, Mr Group leader, I am here from the beginning, after the votes have ended, during the debates that took place this evening, and the word, and the concept, which I have heard from your mouth for the first time since this evening, so no one here had any intention of bringing up this topic in the context of professional debates. But to be serious, of course, we would like and did not mention any veto that you mentioned here, that climate protection should take place in the light of the sustainability of the economy and in the spirit of rationality, in the spirit of entrepreneurship, so that we do not set ourselves goals that we will not be able to achieve. That is why we have said the numbers, parameters, which the European Union has supported for the first time in order to be able to take on, but a different, higher value, which, according to our calculations, is not yet certain that it is feasible in that form and to the extent that we have not been able to obtain that certainty based on our calculations. This does not mean that we are not committed to climate protection, it does not mean that we do not undertake what the other Member States of the European Union committed in the first stage, but that we cannot join it until we are sure of the second commitment. I didn't want to respond to my fellow Member from Turda, but I didn't want to assume that they would barge in and destroy me, or I don't know what he did, what kind of concept he used, what you do. Who destroys, who crushes [[It's Bence of Turdai's intervention.]] Those who behave incredulously, both in Parliament and outside, are you, in particular, you, Congressman, so do not try to blame something that is not real, which is not the custom of the other side; it is precisely your custom. [[Bence Tordai: Secretary of State, answer the question in substance.]] I thank Congressman Varga very much for his contribution. The Commission's amendment, of course, was not supported by the committee after due consideration, because in a changed environment the government considered a different policy to be important and important now. We regard the importance of security stockpiling and the appropriate level of service price as very, very important, in this situation it was more important than representing the other side, which is why we decided. It is precisely what many of the speakers, Bence Tordai and you have mentioned, that the circumstances have changed, and that the government is adapting its policy to the changed circumstances and proposing the amendment to Parliament. In the event that a major change is to take place in the next period, as has been the case, if necessary, the government will take appropriate measures taking into account the changed circumstances. So I am asking you to support this in the vote on the bill, precisely because climate protection is important for the government. There are significant technical amendments to the law. This change in gas supply, security of gas storage and the maintenance of consumer prices, at all, serves to maintain the price level, which I believe is important for all of us and can even be supported by the opposition. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-355	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, It is now time for a series of proposals to be discussed. The Group of the Democratic Coalition has proposed that the National Assembly decide on T/5354 for the Hungarian families belonging to the community of the European Union. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Welfare Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I'll give the floor to the author in a five-minute time frame. It is for Mr Harvester of the Democratic Coalition. Here you go. [[21.30]]
u2019-04-01-356	Dear House, Mr President, It is no coincidence that there are three legislative proposals with very similar themes and content in this series of articles, since, in addition to the Democratic Coalition, the Hungarian Socialist Party and the Dialogue have submitted a proposal. Basically, this similarity is because it is quite clear what the deficit left behind by the government's family policy is. Because in contrast to the vegetables that you spoke in this morning's debate, I believe that there is no debate between the sides of the House, that we would like more children to be born in Hungary, and, of course, if these children could grow up in peace and quiet and under the right conditions. What we have in common with you is the means by which this can be achieved. Because it is possible to lend millions of loans to otherwise creditworthy, wealthy families. You can give a discount for millions of HUF apartments and millions of HUF cars and for the purchase of tens of millions of HUF houses. But the majority of Hungarian families, my fellow Members, are not the main problem, but the fact that they can be on the street without accommodation and guarantees. The fact that the family allowance has not increased in the last ten years. The fact that children's health is crumbling, that infant classes are empty, and that the country is full of unfilled GP districts. It's that they're running an education system where every eighth child gets out without a proper education. The fact that there is no rental building in this country is essentially, and the rental prices are increasing. Because of the slave law, parents have to work overtime more and more. These are matters, honourable Members, which really keep me from having children, which really prevent more children from being born and that these children should grow up in better conditions. We are now asking for this agenda as well as for the next two agendas to allow us to talk about the country's problems here in the country's house. It is possible to talk about the problems that affect the majority of Hungarian families. Make it possible for us to talk about how to finally raise the family allowance. The benefit that goes to each Hungarian family, which does not depend on whether a family is poor or rich, because all children are equally valuable. A child born into a poor family is as precious as a child born into a wealthy family. Let us talk about what can be done in health care in this House, so that a parent can expect to receive help for his child even if he is sick, if he does not have thousands of forints in his pocket to look for private care or separate roads. To allow us to talk about education here, about how a parent can expect a good school, how he learns language, how he can continue to study even if he doesn't have a full pocket and he can't pay much for it. Let us talk here and argue in this House about what needs to be done to prevent families with children from getting on the streets and what needs to be done to create apartments that are affordable from a normal, average start-up payment, not just for your children. Allow us to talk about what needs to be done so that Hungarians are not obliged to spend 400 overtime hours and have time with their families, what needs to be done in order for the care fee to be regarded as an employment relationship at last, and that a parent can expect that if he has a child who needs care, he can create at least the minimum conditions for him. We therefore ask you not only to help some of the families, but finally to allow a substantive debate to take place in this House on the burning, serious problems affecting the majority of Hungarian families. Because it's our responsibility, because for a patriot, every family and every child is important, not just the one you're hoping to vote from, just like you. Thank you very much.
u2019-04-01-357	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, representative of the Jobbik faction. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2019-04-01-358	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, What is written in this proposal is, of course, in the legislation that regulates these conditions of life that is all there is. Except for two things, of course. One is the compulsory age of school, as this government shamelessly reduced it to 16 years of age, and the other to the new elements in this proposal concerning the education system, which, unfortunately, are not regulated in the educational law. I consider this proposal to be a cry for help, and I must say that, after the last nine years of governance, it is actually justified, because, whether we like it or not, in our society, education equal opportunities and the conditions for educating young people have deteriorated to such an extent to the disadvantage of children from a more difficult or non-rich family, which naturally motivates opposition politicians to make such a presentation. I have to say that I may also be single in person on the brink of Hungarian politics, because I have set a goal of two 20 numbers. One of the 20s is that today's Hungarian living conditions and today's Hungarian mental development dictate that we increase the age limit for young people to the age of 20, given that although many children live in much more qualitative material conditions, it can be shown that children are much more mentally damaged despite the development of hygiene and the environment. Which means they're going to come later, which means that much later you can decide which one has affinity for and what to do with it. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-04-01-359	Thank you very much. And now, Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP. Here.
u2019-04-01-360	Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Of course, I agree with the speakers before me, all the more so because this case was before Parliament's Committee on Welfare last week, Tuesday. Over the past few years, the opposition has had countless attempts to express the possibilities that, in my view, would have improved the demographic situation that is here. I sense that the government sees that there is a problem here, that it has tried to find a solution to this, and that the opposition has thought about other solutions. In my opinion, the government looked at the social groups that could be excluded from funding. For example, I'm just going to tell you a very juicy situation. Women under the age of 40 are in a position to benefit from government ideas, but what about a woman who has just passed 40 a day. What happens to a child who is born half an hour before midnight and doesn't count for any discount compared to a child born, say, ten minutes after midnight, and all rights can be enforced by the parent? As a result, I think that we should not go in the direction of so-called exclusion, but in the direction of a kind of universal benefit, and that then all children would be guaranteed support. That's one thing. The other, my fellow Members, should not only support the birth of the child, I think that raising the child should be supported at least to this extent. Why the government is only fighting for children born in marriage, while we know that a significant part of the children are now born out of wedlock. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's in there too!]] There have been a number of such examples in the proposals, so I would just like to reiterate that the MSZP will support this series of articles. Thank you very much. [[21.40]]
u2019-04-01-361	Thank you. Congressman Bence of Turdai, Dialogue!
u2019-04-01-362	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, The Dialogue is very happy to support not only the series of articles but also the proposal for a resolution itself. Indeed, as our colleague Gergely Arató said, it is clear what Hungarian society, the Hungarian families, need. This is security and predictability, a solidarity society that guarantees everyone that if they have children, they can raise them in peace, happiness, and health. Compared to this, Fidesz believes in submission and oppression, a policy that makes people vulnerable. When you're looking for the causes of your failed family policy, your failed population policy, you might have to look here. If someone lives in vulnerability, if one does not see the future for sure, if one constantly wonders why and when he will emigrate from this country, then he will not be so enthusiastic about starting a family. That is what today's proposals by the parties to the left-wing opposition are really about to create security and planning instead of vulnerability. We fully agree on this and support DK's proposal. Thank you very much.
u2019-04-01-363	Thank you very much. From the LMP faction, Mr. László Keresztes Lóránt Group leader, here you go.
u2019-04-01-364	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I do not wish to repeat my fellow opposition Members, and I fundamentally agree with the speeches made. The vote on the family protection action plan took place today, the debate ended, the vote took place, and the result is visible: the vast majority of opposition representatives supported the government's proposals. We have said that we agree and that we see that there is a demographic crisis and that, by the way, this government has a huge responsibility for the development of this situation. This is one of the biggest failures of Fidesz governance that this situation could have developed so that this situation could get worse. Obviously, the former governments are also responsible. It is quite clear that we need comprehensive measures to be able to take action on this national issue. So we also supported the government's proposals, but we said that these alone are insufficient proposals, because they concern a very narrow circle. Obviously, the goal is to get these grants to all families, and the result of these actions and initiatives should be that all the children you want can be born. We're talking about a series of discussions. There are some parts of this proposal that we can argue with, but obviously our task is now to create the possibility of a debate. Therefore, the LMP fraction will support the inclusion on the agenda. I very much hope that my fellow members of the Government will support this and that it will be possible to mature in a debate and, after discussing the appropriate amendments, I think that we can take a very serious step towards achieving real results in dealing with the demographic crisis. Thank you.
u2019-04-01-365	Thank you. I will ask if anyone wishes to speak on behalf of the factions or of the independent Members. [[No one's reporting.]] It's easy for me to admit that I didn't, since no one's come forward. So I will ask the author, Mr Arató, if he wishes to reflect. [[Gergely Harvesto: Yes.]] Here you go.
u2019-04-01-366	Dear House, I am sad because I was hoping that if our pro-government fellow Members are here with us at this late hour, we might be able to count on their opinion. However, I would like to share one lesson from this debate. Maybe I'll answer a professional question, but first there's an important political lesson. It is often said, sometimes it can be heard from analysts and professionals that the opposition is not held together by any other distaste for the Orbán government. This distaste is otherwise well-founded and indeed common in opposition parties. But for example, the acceptance of this proposal shows that there is something else that connects us. It also connects the opposition parties that we all, sitting on this side of the parliament, think that every Hungarian family is important, that every single Hungarian child is important, and that it should be given adequate opportunities regardless of the financial situation of each Hungarian child. We also seem to agree that family policies should be pursued that help and support not only a few, but also for all to have children and raise children. I think this is a very important consensus on the opposition side. I promised you an answer to one more professional question, just because Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm spoke about age limits in an educational matter that is very close to my heart. Indeed, the lucky option would be to introduce a flexible school-obligation age, which would allow no or little child to leave school without a degree. It is also possible to set such an age limit, there was one in Hungary before in primary school, so that the school obligation would last until someone could complete a school education within a realistic deadline. But I think it's a matter of detail that we'll be able to discuss in the debate on the bill if that's the case.
u2019-04-01-367	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party has proposed that the Parliament decide on the H/5359. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Welfare Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to the rapporteur, who in this case is Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, in a five-minute timeframe. Here you go.
u2019-04-01-368	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We see today that László Kövér had one big problem with this motion that the Hungarian Socialist Party submitted watermarked paper. I think he didn't read the contents, but he saw that there were things on the paper that he didn't like, and he wrote a rough letter. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Irregular!]] You can argue, Congressman, push the button and you can tell me what's wrong and what's wrong. However, it should also be noted that if we are discussing family support or opposition initiatives, we can very well see how much the pro-government representatives are affected, whatever amendments or individual proposals are tabled. It is now clear that there are two people left in the Chamber. The other is that our proposal to increase the family allowance has been submitted 28 times in the past period; it has been voted down 28 times. Today we have again asked for a vote in plenary and voted against by our fellow Members. Our proposal consists of three parts. One is to support childbearing and to coordinate child rearing and employment, because it is very important for us, it is essential, it does not work one without the other. The second point is to support childcare, the care of close relatives, and the third is also very important, which we talk about very much about in order to ensure housing. I also said in the debate that all three of our points contain eight points, this is a rather comprehensive programme, and we have often pointed out that we want to help not a narrow layer, but all families, this is very important for us in this demographic crisis, all children are the same for us, and all children are equally important. At the first point, I would like to highlight the increase in maternity allowance to HUF 300,000, as this form of support has not been increased in 11 years. You have not touched this form of support in the last nine years, a mother receives 64 thousand forints when her child is born. On the one hand, the value of this form of support has deteriorated a lot and on the other hand, a one-time grant of HUF 300,000 is enough for a lot of things when a child is born. And let's not forget the kindergarten care fee that you introduced. Greater protection for young children at work. During the weekend, the press was loud about how to distinguish women's workers in public institutions when they want to have children. It is very important for us to double the extra leave for fathers, as it is increasingly important for fathers to play an increasing role in raising children. Our second point is to support childcare and the care of close relatives. Here again, I would like to emphasise: the family allowance, the doubling of children and children. Actual plus one month of school start-up support not only at the level of communication, but also at the same time a week earlier in August, but also at the same time a month's support for children going to school. Priority support for singles and permanently ill or disabled children and immediate improvement of children's health care. The third problem is to ensure the safety of housing. The immediate ban on eviction of young children, the establishment of a social housing system, the immediate restoration of housing support and debt management support, which you took away. [[21.50]] It's a sublet grant. We see how brutal rental prices are throughout the country, in the big cities, in Budapest, in the cities with county rights. Re-introduction of a modern housing savings system, which you have abolished. I didn't list all eight points at the three main points. I think that this amendment is a complete package, which means that we would really like to help Hungarian families, and we really were shocked to note that the three proposals we initiated to raise immediately the maternity allowance, the family allowance, the child, were swept off the table today. You can see how frivolous it is when you always emphasise cooperation and support for families. Of course, of course, what you submit must be supported. I'd just like to tell you to bring it up, hand it in, and then support it as if it were your suggestion. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-04-01-369	Thank you very much. Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. In this case, the first speaker is Mrs Krisztina Hohn, Member of the LMP. Here you go.
u2019-04-01-370	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The LMP faction also considers it important to support childbearing, to support children and families, given the demographic situation of Hungary. I think it is important that we support any good initiative that promotes financial stability in the widest number of families. I would just like to highlight one or two of the proposals submitted by the MSZP, as the previous one has presented it in quite detail. With regard to nursery care, it is very important that the opening hours are more flexible and that the number of seats increase, as this kind of nursery system and opening hours cannot meet modern employers' expectations. It is also an important point in increasing the supplementary leave for fathers, and I am pointing this out on purpose, because I think that not only does he have a mother but he also has a father for all children, and it is very important that we also help the emotional stability of families by giving them time to each other. The other is the extension of the free catering of children in need to high school students. So the child does not usually finish his studies with the end of the 8th grade, but continues until he is 18 years old, but it is very important that for many families this is a serious problem, and often children stay in school for five to six hours, and do not get hot food once a day or even in the evening, or even cold. What I would like to highlight from the proposal is the ban on eviction of small children. Not only would I highlight theirs in my heart, but this is what the resolution proposal contains. I don't have to explain this, because more people have done it in front of me today. And thank you, Mr. Secretary, for staying, no. Thank you very much. [[Applause, applause.]]
u2019-04-01-371	And now, the representative of the Jobbik faction, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, will be here.
u2019-04-01-372	Mr President, Dear House, I am pleased that my fellow pro-government Members applaud the absence of the Secretary of State. [[Deterioration in the benches of Jobbik.]] The situation may not be that good, because we are in a demographic disaster, and I would very much like to agree with the government on this issue, as far as optimism is concerned, but unfortunately, the fertility ratio above 1.5 has fallen to 1.44, and the number of live births has shown a further decline. So unfortunately, the certificate doesn't even reach a sufficient grade in this area. Many of the problems are due to a housing crisis. With well-intentioned Members of Parliament, we participated in several séances or conferences where the housing segment was specifically the topic. Since this proposal concerns a number of proposals in this area, it is at least suitable for debate, although I would be able to vote as much as 80 percent of the points in front of us, precisely because several opposition parties have proposed the same ones, and even fellow members of the government, from opposition in the past, where appropriate. So the detection and detection of the problem exists between us. Obviously, the government or non-governmental position in many cases determines whether the current Cabinet can take up these proposals or not. It is enough to note that if the number of newly built properties remains the same in the middle of a housing crisis, then the total Hungarian real estate stock cannot be exchanged every 200 years. The thing is, we'd have to hand over 40,000 new-built properties a year. The government didn't make it over 20,000 even after the CSOK upswing, and after the benefit of the lucky social classes. That's where we are right now. Anyone who says that there is no need to intervene, there is no need to intervene, but we live outside the Stargate, and we live in it, so we want to intervene, so we consider this package worthy of debate. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-04-01-373	Thank you very much. Congressman Lajos Korózs, MSZP!
u2019-04-01-374	Thank you very much. I try to be brief, but I highlight some things because these, which I now mention, are not material questions. Making nursery or kindergarten opening hours more flexible is not a fiscal issue, it is not a financial issue; at least if it has a financial impact, it is insignificant. In the same way, I believe that state support for fertility treatments can be significantly increased from a minimum of expenditure. I do not think that horror funds should be turned on, which is why we were confident that our fellow Members would support this. Look, there's no such insane revenue from daycare fees for either the maintenance or the state, and consequently I also think that it could be abolished without further ado. As you said, my fellow Member, among the proposals for supporting childbearing was the need to provide support and benefits for those living in a partnership. More than that, because, as I said, nearly half of the children are born outside of marriage, precisely 46 percent of the last year's statistics show that they are born out of wedlock, but at the same time we can see that there are about 300,000 parents who are forced to raise their children alone, and of these... or the 300,000 mothers raise about half a million children alone. I think that if we are talking about making the family support system fairer, and that is also the point, namely, the II. In point (d) of Chapter I, there is no need to spend any more money here either. Simply what families can now use as family tax incentives should be distributed more fairly and not directed towards well - earning families. So I would ask my fellow Members to allow this presentation to be discussed. Thank you very much.
u2019-04-01-375	Thank you very much. Congressman Bence of Turdai, Dialogue!
u2019-04-01-376	Thank you. Dear Parliament, First sentence of the reasoning of the proposal: Every family counts for the Hungarian Socialist Party. That sounds very nice to my conversational ears, because our motto is that everyone matters. Indeed, we must pursue a family policy, a social policy where everyone counts, every family counts, and in this spirit our colleagues have worked out this very thorough, in detail progressive, forward-looking package of proposals, which I would no longer praise, but simply indicate that we will, of course, support from the Dialogue. Thank you.
u2019-04-01-377	Thank you. Congressman Gergely Harvesto, DK!
u2019-04-01-378	Thank you very much. Dear House, I won't be able to compete with the rhetorical turns of the speakers before me. [[Depreciation in the ranks of MSZP and DK.]] I would therefore just like to confirm that we feel that this proposal is also seeking a solution to the same problems that we are working together to address, the everyday problems that most Hungarian families and most Hungarian people are facing, and which are the biggest obstacles to increasing the desire to have children and to growing up under the right conditions. That is why we are in favour of putting the proposal on the agenda of the Parliament, and I am sure that we will also be able to find a final text that will be surrounded by a very broad consensus not only in this House but in the whole country. Thank you very much.
u2019-04-01-379	Thank you. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, KDNP!
u2019-04-01-380	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Everyone here is looking forward to the pro-government speeches. These debates were held last Tuesday in the framework of a three-hour committee meeting. There were representatives of the MSZP, as the authors, DK's representatives as the authors. [[22.00]] There was a long debate, and Mr President can confirm that we have been discussing these issues for three hours. That's the place for these issues, there was a vote. You're missing our arguments when we said it there. You should have come there, my dear Congresswoman, as rapporteur, if you were so proud of your presentation. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I was at a committee meeting.]] And I should have listened to the arguments. I asked for the floor to clarify some of the fundamental misunderstanding that President Korózs has made here in Parliament for many times today, and Ildikó Bangóné Borbély always endorses it. And this is the marriage of those living in a partnership, or they want to turn these forms of coexistence against each other. In six of the seven points of the family protection action plan voted on today, six of them can be used in partnership, only you deny them. You don't talk about these things, and you don't admit that out of the seven points, it's only baby shower support that is specifically tied to marriage, and the other six are available to everyone. You want to change the family concept of the Fundamental Law. It says in the Fundamental Law that the family is based on marriage or parent-child relationship. You deny these realities, precisely so that you can come up with a soundy voice for yourself. I will also say this once in these debates, because there are a lot of proposals on the same subject before this House, which I also said on the committee last week. There is a fundamental political, philosophical difference between us. The fact that we want to continuously increase family support for work, 26 percent of the family benefits in 2010 were work-related care, now approaching 70 percent. That's a good ratio. Ninety-four percent of the family tax benefits are available. And by the way, we didn't raise any of that kind of care. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] That's not true, we raised the plant for three years in 2010, that's 324 thousand forints a year. You've never raised so much of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-04-01-381	Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I would like to ask you if you would like to speak on the part of the factions and on the part of any of the independent Members. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. I will ask the rapporteur, Mrs Congresswoman, if she wishes to reflect. [[For signal:]] Yes, please. You have two minutes.
u2019-04-01-382	Congressman, did you have more children during your administration? In the last eight years, he's been born with 50,000 children less since... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: The fertility rate is higher.]] But there's still a higher fertility rate if there's 50,000 less children! This number is on one side, on the other side, and on the other. One in six Hungarian children see the light of day abroad. I know you're going to deny that, and now you're denying it, too, Madam Secretary. One in ten women of childbearing age is not in Hungary. You can't talk about success, you know that, and I know that. Why don't you tell me once as a fake Christian: what the hell is wrong with a partnership if it's good for almost half the Hungarians? What's wrong with you? ! And if they can raise children, there's nothing wrong with them, why should they be distinguished? Baby shower credit? ! Give me support, not credit. Hungarian families should not be encouraged to take credit. Credit is credit. In a few years, another tragedy may occur, which may have unforeseen consequences for these young families. Give me support, and then you'll have to tell me what to spend it on, not use it for travel. You can also say that they will be born during the journey, or these children will be ready, but I beg you! And let me tell you one more thing. Do you know in which social group poverty has grown the most? Workers' poverty has increased in Hungary over the last eight years. So you can argue, but you know, Congressman, what bothers me is that what the opposition has submitted over the last nine years, you have said everything is not good and not eligible. Believe me, that's not how this world works. It's not just white and black, it's only the good that Fidesz-KDNP submitted. And that's why we said it today. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] to vote in favour of these three important points, which you seem to have not taken seriously, but said that you will not continue to support them. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2019-04-01-383	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. [[Noise.]] Would you please keep your voice down? Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group has proposed that Parliament decide on the measures necessary to implement the principle of equal pay for equal work in practice, H/4782. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on Enterprise Development. First, I give the floor to the rapporteur in a five-minute time frame, who is this time Member James. You have the floor, please.
u2019-04-01-384	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, they are in front of television because they are not very present here in this House. Where I live, there's a slogan. This slogan sounds like your destiny is Borsod. These two words contain a lot of things. It's defiant that we're gonna stick to the east end even if we die. It's got the bitterness we feel because it's like we're worth less to the state than a capital city. And, of course, there's also a big deal of resignation that we've got: poverty or emigration. The thing is, a lot of counties could have a similar slogan today, because in many counties, the same is the lack of prospects, which gives birth to the question of going or staying, working for slave wages until nosebleeds, or going to the West, because I have only one life. Dear fellow Members, In the last few months, I have no idea how many times I have brought you in here, the need to catch the wages of people in the coming parts of the country in front of this House. I was always told not to worry, because the salaries in the poorest parts of the country grow the most, and besides, your Secretary of State, who is not here now, is glad to see someone earning 100,000 forints in Borsod, because ten years ago he did not make that much. Well, I showed this answer to one of those guys who made 100 grand in Borsodi. You know what he said? He said he'd come into Parliament and lay the table on you. The thing is, the people are angry with us, fellow Members, and people don't want much, just enough to count them as people. They want them to be worth as much as a capital city. Because today, if you only look at wages, a Borsodian is worth 102,000 forints, and a sabolchi is worth 122 thousand forints less than a capital city. You, of course, say that yes, you have to reduce wage differences between different parts of the country, but in the meantime, the state itself makes a serious and negative distinction between workers living in the break-down parts of the country when public companies pay much less for the same job, say, for a worker in Miskolc than a győr, referring to the fact that Miskolc is a poorer country anyway, there is no need to pay so much. Of course, Miskolc is really a poorer country than Győr, but is it the job's fault, or is it the government's fault? Because you're punishing the workman. Don't do it! State firms should pay equal wages for equal work, which also sends a message that all employees are equally important to the Hungarian state, live in Zahony or live in Sopron. Then there are the multinationals for whom you enslave a nation. So far, you and the multinationals have concluded approximately 80 strategic contracts. These strategic treaties contain a lot of things about how the Hungarian government supports the multi. But it doesn't include how the multi raises wages. Yes, strategic contracts must be renegotiated, setting a specific timetable for wage increases. Do you understand? What is needed is not a slave law, not 400 hours of overtime, but a substantial wage increase. In recent years, you have provided an average of HUF 12.6 million in support to the multinationals for each newly created job. This means that the Hungarian government, i.e. the Hungarian taxpayers, paid the total labour costs of the workers for four years in advance instead of the multinationals. Can you imagine what a Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprise would do if it received such support? Then there'd be money for development, modernisation, wage increases. Where else would there be money for a raise even if the thieves once said thank you very much, from now on there is no need to redistribute 30 plus 40 percent, so let's make it pay. There's money here, fellow Members, for a raise, but it shouldn't be stolen. Well, don't. Instead, support Jobbik's proposal for a resolution in order to catch up on the wages of those in the coming parts of the country. That's all we need from you. Believe me, the counties where people don't look for the Hungarian average are not long behind. These counties, Borsod, Szabolcs, Nógrád, Békés, I might add, have little to throw. But if you don't vote for a raise for the people who live here, you don't have much of a pitch. So change your attitude until it's too late. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-04-01-385	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent representative to speak in a two-minute time frame. [[For signal:]] Congressman Gergely Harvesto, Democratic Coalition. [[22.10]]
u2019-04-01-386	Dear House, Let me start by saying that it is important to draw attention to exactly what the proposal for a decision on which we are discussing is a proposal for a resolution. That basically puts three things on the table, if I may say so. On the one hand, the wage policy of the majority state-owned companies. This is a matter that the Parliament and the government have to do with; the second is the wage policy of companies with a strategic partnership with the government; the third is the creation and transformation of the environment of small and medium-sized enterprises. The reason why I am starting to get so complicated or so long is because I would like to make it clear that we can support this proposal and the inclusion of this proposal because we agree not only with the aim, but also by reducing wage differences within the country, because it is not the case that, while Budapest's economic development is at least slowly approaching the EU average, and perhaps even exceeding it, there are regions in the country that are among the most failing regions, and this is partly a wage issue. It cannot be regulated in itself by means of wage instruments, and it will certainly not object, my fellow Member, if I say that, for example, it will be worth talking about, in the debate on the proposal for a decision, which means of economic development can bring higher added value jobs with better wages into less developed parts of the country. But it is certain that the instruments proposed by the Member are capable of having a substantive debate on this issue and of looking at how public means can be used, otherwise interfering with the market economy, while respecting the market economy. Let me give you a short sentence. However, such a proposal is unthinkable without talking about the pay gap between men and women. Therefore, we will definitely complement this proposal for a resolution if it comes to Parliament. Thank you very much.
u2019-04-01-387	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else wants to tell me. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr James, if he has anything to say. [[James Peter: Yes.]] You have two minutes, please.
u2019-04-01-388	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear fellow Members, Well, there will soon be a moment of truth when you will vote on whether you are in favour of catching up the wages of those living in the break-down parts of the country. It will turn out that you represent the Fidesz, or rather the employees. One thing is certain, as I have already said, that for counties where workers don't even earn the national average, there really isn't much time left. These counties are depopulation, getting old, getting fed up. You don't have to be an economist to know that this process can only be prevented and reversed by a substantial increase in wages, not with loans, not with eastern migrant workers, not with posters, but with a substantial increase in wages. Yes, we need to catch up on the wages of those who live in remote parts of the country. Indeed, the state must strive for the practical implementation of the principle of equal pay for equal work, because it does not entail that the pay gap is increasing among the individual parts of the country, but, let us say, I do not experience that petrol would be cheaper in Miskolc than in Győr, or that the train ticket would cost less in Szolnok than, say, in Sopron. Of course, you say that the principle of equal pay for equal work cannot be put into practice because it is decided by the market. But the politicians managed to do it there, because a member of the Parliament of Nyíregyháza earns just as much today as a sopron. All I ask is that politicians be no exception. All I'm asking is for the same treatment for the postman and the factory worker, because that's fair. So let's get it together, not think about why we can't do it, but let's think together about how to raise wages. I put my proposal on the table, and I ask you to support it. Or if you don't do that, come to Borsod and Szabolcs and tell the workers that you're not as good as a capital city. Don't just be brave to press the button, be brave to do this. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-04-01-389	Thank you very much. The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the publicity of the state security past, T/5339. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. First, I give the floor to the rapporteur within a five-minute time frame, who in this case is Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea. Here you go.
u2019-04-01-390	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, When we often say a lied regime change, a very important element of it is the exploration of the party state past and the removal from public life of persons involved in that system that did not happen to us. But it happened in countless communist countries, just because they felt that if public life was not cleansed, and people who maintained that system would also receive economic, political and public positions in the new system, it would mean that nothing had changed. There has not been a year in the last 29 years that a parliamentary group or a Member has not submitted its initiative. How different this is from what may have been before is that the Polish Lustration Act has been adapted to the Hungarian legal environment, and this has been submitted by our fellow Member Adam Mirkóczki. The Polish people are constantly welcomed as brothers and sisters, and at our celebration on 15 March, there are slowly more people than the Hungarian population. But that doesn't mean they should just be used as sets. The Polish people, the Polish government and Polish legislation should certainly be seen as a model on this issue. They have made a coherent proposal to the table of their own people, which is why no one can win a public office that is excluded by their laws oflustration, and that is what this proposal would be about. We always remember that in May 1991 the Zétényi-Takács' Lustration Bill was adopted by Parliament by nearly two thirds, and then the Constitutional Court, not recognizing that we can close the former system by recognising that that system was a non-law system, the Constitutional Court said that it violates the principle of legal certainty if we legislate retroactively. Unfortunately, the decision-makers at the time did not realise that the social benefits of this law and the benefits of the real rule of law were much more than to view it as an ordinary law with potentially retroactive effect. Although I stress that the proposal would not have been, it would simply have arranged for all the sins committed to be retributed and those responsible to be excluded from public life. This proposal would serve to ensure that all people who have played an important political and public role in that system should not be mayors, should not be leaders of major public institutions, should not be Members of Parliament, should not be State Secretarys, should not be in an important position in the government. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that in Poland there is not a National Remembrance Committee, but an Institution of National Remembrance, which has a special prosecutorship. If any official, whose reliability is a condition for the post, declares that he did not have a post in the Party State system that would exclude him from occupying this public office, the investigation in this institution shall immediately begin to assess whether this declaration was real. This would be the minimum after a system in which Hungary has been in Hungary for 45 or 43 years. This would have been the least we could do for the future generation, so that they would not be able to return to these important public offices of the communist and then socialist system. Of course, anyone, especially in the pro-government ranks, can say how many times we have talked about it, how many proposals have been tabled, how many times we have tasted whether this is what society needs or whether it is responsible for the Members of the democratic Parliament for not having done so. Yes, there is. As long as we are alive, this responsibility rests with us all. I am extremely surprised that the representatives of the governing parties have rejected this in the last nine years, although it is also true, sometimes seeing their ranks, that it is not foreign to them that they know the maintenance of the old system in their community. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-04-01-391	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent representative to speak in a two-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to the leader of the LMP, Congressman László Keresztes. Here. [[22.20]]
u2019-04-01-392	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur, indeed, that there is a serious failure on the part of the governments that have been operating since the change of regime and the Parliaments that have stood up after the change of regime. We cannot appreciate this omission other than the desecration of the victims of communism. To this day, we do not know how the communist state security staff have networked the regime changer parties, and how this cooperation or this hidden relationship determines public life to this day. This is a very serious omission, it is an extremely important symbolic issue, but I would add that it is not only symbolic, it is extremely important, and it is very specific to today's social and political relations. The LMP's commitment doesn't really need to be proven. We have submitted this proposal 19 times since 2011, and we thank Jobbik's representatives for every vote that Jobbik has voted in favour of bringing the proposal into the subject series. Thank you very much for this new proposal from Jobbik, Jobbik has not submitted such a proposal for the first time either, and LMP has always supported it. However, it has to be said that despite the fact that they themselves made a commitment in 2011, rather than a commitment in 2010, that within a year and a half they would come up with a proposal of their own, they failed to do so. Then, on all occasions, LMP's proposal was rejected without making an alternative proposal themselves. It's a despicable attitude. But there's one thing I'd like to remember. The last time we submitted the bill on the discovery of the state security past the 19th time, there were three courageous Fidesz MEPs who voted in favour of the series of articles. I would like to thank them by name, Katalin Novak, János Bencsik, Dr. Lajos Szűcs, and I would also like to say that Dr. Béla Turi-Kovács abstained. I think, given the political operation within Fidesen, it is certainly commendable that this 3+1 Fidesz Member has gone against your outrageous dictatorship and voted in favour of putting this proposal on the agenda. It has become clear to all of us that democracy cannot be built on the secrets of a dictatorship, so thank you for the proposal, and, of course, the LMP faction will support it tomorrow with its vote on the subject series. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2019-04-01-393	Thank you very much. Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik!
u2019-04-01-394	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Does the Fidesz-KDNP have any debts in this case? This is the big question, and the interesting thing is that, in recent times, LMP and Jobbik have been fighting to finally explore the communist past, to finally account for it, and to give the truth to the victims who suffered this whole system. Despite all the promises of the Fidesz-KDNP, Hungary's enormous debt since the so-called regime change has been that it has not faced its communist past, has not given at least justice to the victims, and people who have served the party state system can safely live their world to this day, the XXI. Even in the century. My fellow Member, Andrea Varga-Damm, said that there is a need in society for this truth to be revealed whether there is a need in society to know the people who have contributed to the repression of others in this party-state system. There's a demand, yes. There's no need for that in one place. It's called Fidesz-KDNP. There's no need for you. This is why they voted in line and continuously on the proposals for lisztáció, about getting to know the III/III files, to be public when we talk about the need to explore the past of state security and finally name the guilty, and we should not allow them to live their lives in peace, and others have been crippled into the work that these people have done. The reason you don't want to support these proposals is because if such an exploration were to begin, you would have the highest number of those involved. They do not want to support them because even the people who are linked to the Prime Minister would have a serious problem, and they believe that you will do everything in your power to protect these people, and also because you will be able to do well to rebuild the one-party system in this country. Shame on you! [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-04-01-395	Congressman Bence of Turdai, Dialogue!
u2019-04-01-396	Thank you for the floor. The Dialogue supports this proposal and supports the objective that this proposal serves. We, too, today's dialogueists, have been the authors of several of these legislative proposals. When we saw these repeated failures, we had to ask why Fidesz-KDNP was not interested in resolving these matters in the face of the anti-communist rhetoric. And, well, we had to think about who would determine these decisions in Fidesz. We are talking about Viktor Orbán, who, in 1989, demanded the immediate opening of negotiations on the withdrawal of Soviet troops, when it was already decided that Soviet troops would be withdrawn from Hungary. Just as it was decided that before the Soviet troops withdraw, before that they will copy, copy, digitize, and take with them the entire archives, complete documents and documents of Hungarian state security to Moscow. And when we started to wonder why Viktor Orbán, who was still using anti-Communist and anti-Russia rhetoric in the 2010s, was so much a shepherd against Putin, why he announced his Eastern opening policy, we could not help but wonder why these documents were probably still in Moscow, still in one of Vladimir Putin's vaults, the former KGB leader. And if in these documents, let's say, the Fidesz president reported on his fellow soldiers, then at least this could cause problems for the ruling parties today. This seems to be the only reasonable explanation for why Putin was pissed off and why he refuses to carry out the lustration in Hungary. Thank you.
u2019-04-01-397	I'll see if anyone else wants to tell me. [[Bence Tordai and Lawrence Nacs are talking loudly to each other.]] I'm gonna say no. So the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. [[For signal:]] Dear Parliament, Sorry, we just finished this item on the agenda, and I just read it in our common language. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the Hungarian quota for workers, T/5133. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on Enterprise Development. First, I give the floor to the author, in this case to Mr János Stummer, representative of Jobbik. You have five minutes tops. Here you go.
u2019-04-01-398	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, 2030. This is, therefore, the target date that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán set for the Members of Fidesz and KDNP at the beginning of the term. That's where he pinned the signposts. So you have about 10 years to bring Hungary to the forefront of Europe. They have about 10 years to try and turn this country into one of the top 5 countries of Europe, where it is best to live, live and work. Your prime minister has done quite a bit of work. If this works, you'll be making history. If this works, your names will be on the most beautiful pages of the book of Hungarian history. If you succeed, you will be considered politicians to be statesmen. There's a lot of work in front of you. And the only small part of this work is that in order for you to succeed, you have to win at least two more parliamentary elections in 2022 and 2026. After all, most of the work will be to act like statesmen every day of the year and every minute of every day. This will be your greatest test. It'll be a test. Because a statesman never looks at where a law or a proposal comes from, which side it comes from, but only considers whether that proposal is in the best interests of the country and the nation. If they do, they'll vote for it, and if they don't, they'll reject it. It sounds simple, of course, but I know how difficult it is in practice. It's hard to get out of the captivity of the parties, it's hard to get out of these trenches, and all the other considerations tossed aside and simply nod for the benefit of the nation. It's hard, of course. But that's why in Hungarian history there are so many politicians and so few statesmen. [[22.30]] I am asking you simple questions, honourable Members present. Is it a common national interest for Hungarians to live in Hungary? You did, didn't you? ! Is it a common national interest for Hungarians living in Hungary to live in decent conditions and to work for competitive wages by European standards? You did, didn't you? ! I am asking you now to protect Hungarian workers and protect Hungarian families. I ask you to use this bill to force companies in Hungary to solve the problems caused by labour shortages, not with cheap migrant workers imported from the East, but with decent wages paid to Hungarians by European standards. I ask you to be statesmen at last, and even if we bring the Hungarian quota law to the House, vote for it. Vote that every employer in Hungary who employs more than ten people is finally obliged to have at least nine of its ten employees have European citizenship, and foreigners who work for these companies should be taught at least basically in Hungarian. Listen, please, to the certain, if there is a patriotic selves. I am sure that you too have this idea that Hungary needs decent Hungarian workers and Western wages, not Eastern migrant workers. Listen to this patriotic self, I'm sure this will tell you that the shortage of labour must be resolved with Hungarians lured home by raising wages. Do not deny, in the fake reality of the billboards, that some of the companies that operate in the territory of Hungary are now installing mass immigrants into Hungary. Do not deny the reality that these economic immigrants are already among us, that they are the ones who work in the place of Hungarian families fleeing abroad in the hope of a higher salary and a better livelihood. Don't deny reality. Stand by our cause so that those economic immigrants who come to Hungary cannot take away the work of Hungarians. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-04-01-399	Thank you very much. Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. From the Jobbik faction, Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian, please.
u2019-04-01-400	Mr President, Dear House, It is the dispute between us and the governing parties that seems to be parallel, because we see real, real processes, we perceive, for example, that foreign workers imported to Ukrainian migrant workers often bring home higher salaries than they might possibly be in decent conditions for the work. But we also see that in other regions, the same salary has a restrictive effect, so elsewhere they are willing to do a system-wide job that would otherwise be undertaken by Hungarian labour force if, in addition to a fair college system and decent vocational training, these inactive Hungarian young people were at least tried by the government of Hungary to lead them to the labour market in some way. It can also be seen that the government has not only opened up to the Ukrainian workforce and has entered into the regional competition which, instead of moving our own resources, is confined to the import of the alien, so it is a kind of import, but we see that Hungary's government has recently opened up to Tajikistan as well. It is no exaggeration to say, therefore, that the population exchange that many people have visited over a decade's period of time seems to be a reality, and the fact is that, while the Hungarian workforce is leaving for the West by a hundred thousand, there have now been roughly three times as many people leaving in the last ten years as 1956 after the defeat of our wonderful revolution, so it can be said that tens of thousands of people are coming in every year in terms of labour imports, not counting the corrupt businessmen and their family members with settlement bonds, because there is a dwarf minority in Hungarian agriculture for example or in production sectors that serve national strategic interests, but it is certain that there is a change of population by the government. That's what we want to stop. There is a debate on the methodology, but this proposal is certainly worthy of debate. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-04-01-401	Thank you very much. I'll see if anyone else wants to tell me. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the completion of the national security screening of non-Hungarian citizens holding a document to stay in Hungary, H/5043. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the National Security Committee. First, I will give the floor to the rapporteur, in this case to Congressman György Szilágyi, you have five minutes. Here you go.
u2019-04-01-402	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The country was filled with the fact that you are not letting one refugee in here, because you are protecting Hungary from illegal migration, protecting jobs, and we could list the many, many tens and hundreds of billions of advertising campaigns that you have conducted and that you have deceived the Hungarian population. After that, we had to face the fact that there were 86 thousand people in this country who could settle down and live among us, with more than 22,000 settlement bonds, which Jobbik kept saying, and the opposition also said that these people had been through an inadequate national security scan, so that they could pose a serious risk to Hungary, since a few weeks of due diligence was carried out on one of these settlement bonds, but we know of one where they examined whether the person who bought a settlement policy was a national security risk for Hungary in four days. So it is safe to say that the money that Antal Rogán and his friends had to pull in this business was more important to you than the security of Hungary. You have constantly said that this is not true, that these people are going through a very serious national security screening, and we have come to the point that a certain 27-year-old person, F. Hasan, has landed at Liszt Ferenc Airport and has made the mistake of not coming with a settlement agreement from you, but with false papers. You came in with fake papers, you noticed, arrested, and that's where the interesting stuff comes from. F. Hassan was arrested, even prosecuted, received his sentence, and paid close attention to the date after three months, so after three months of investigation, they found out that F. Hassan was an ISIS warrior who was active in the execution of 20 people. It took three months for the National Security Review to get results, since 2.5 months after his arrest, they didn't know that he was an ISIS fighter after three months. He is an example of whether people can be examined in four weeks or four days. How many of these ISIS fighters could have arrived in Hungary? How many of these people can live among us? I mean, if we're just looking at, say, only a few percent of the 20,000, and there's a few percent of these fighters, we're talking about a lot more people who could pose a national security risk. I believe that if there had been a normal screening... there have been cases which I believe to be unacceptable, since in Hungary the Syrian dictator's moneyman, who was also on the US sanction list, was also a Russian spy chief's family, a Russian mobster who was wanted in Finland. These people could all have gotten settled in this country from you. Of course, there is no reason to wonder that this is how due diligence works, because in this country, everyone who sits in, say, just as a representative of the Defence Commission or as a representative of the National Security Committee should be screened; a person should not be scanned, of course, who spends his fourth term as Prime Minister at the moment, he does not need to undergo a national security screening, in case there is a problem. No wonder if there is such a Prime Minister, how seriously these national security screenings are being taken. Of over 20,000 people, how many do you think are stuck on this cliff? Twenty. There were 20 people who did not receive it through the settlement bonds so that they could live in Hungary. This is a serious national security risk. There can be terrorists living among us, there can be people among us who pose a security risk to the Hungarian people by spending serious tens and hundreds of billions to convince the Hungarian population that Hungary is being protected. [[22.40]] You deceived the Hungarian people. When Hungarians were deceived, they could govern this country for such a long time because people thought they were being protected. They didn't protect them, they betrayed this country. That is why they accept this proposal, which we have submitted, that all those people, those eighty-thousand people, must be re-lit and screened for people who are a potential threat to Hungarian people in Hungary. It's their duty. Please accept this proposal, which we have just tabled. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And re-screen all the people you've let into this country. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-04-01-403	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. [[For signal:]] Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea, Jobbik, please.
u2019-04-01-404	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is also particularly important that we address these issues, and this proposal is a task for the Constitutional Protection Office, because the Hungarian people have watched with tens of thousands of government administrations bring refugees to the Eastern Railway Station to scare Hungarian society with it, and interestingly, they also knew the way to this point, and they were very well aware of the many immigrants, and, in fact, going through half the country, the government pushed society into a terrible fear and threat for a long time. This is the primary duty of the government to ensure that the Constitutional Protection Office is obliged to re-examine the security risks of persons who have been granted a permit to reside in Hungary either by establishment or by protection. It should be remembered that these people in Hungary did not ask for these opportunities because they wanted to live in Hungary, but that they entered the European Union with this opportunity. I am terrified that, for example, once people who have been adopted by us are committing a crime and we are free to move across borders across Europe, so that they do not cause terrible tragedies that hold this mark in our country forever; I am terrified that the European Commission will suddenly start to look at how many dangerous terrorists Hungary has put on Europe with these measures. I am convinced that most of the settlement bond holders are not even in Hungary, so it will not be easy to find them, but I think that this proposal would at least serve to start dealing with it. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-04-01-405	Thank you very much. I'll see if anyone else wants to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. I'll ask the author if he wants to reflect. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2019-04-01-406	Ladies and gentlemen, The question arises whether the services are to blame for being among such people, and it must be stated that they are not, so it is not the services that have put pressure on them to issue these permits as quickly as possible to put as much money and as quickly as possible into their pockets. This is what the whole story was about: selling more settlement bonds and putting the money from them into pockets through friends, buddies and offshore companies, and issuing these permits, no matter what these people are up to here in Hungary. There were outstanding examples, since they should think that such a crowd could not be investigated normally, so it was possible, for example, that 18-year-old Afghan gentleman could rape a lady in Hungary in a fast-food restaurant; this was the case that Salah Abdellam could stay in Hungary after the 130 deadly attacks in Paris, and it turned out that he had already visited Budapest twice before. These are very serious problems, and we would like to ask and ask that the Constitutional Protection Office have time to review these people. We believe that this could be done by the end of the year, at least we could start. So I would ask you to give the Fidesz Members the opportunity to re-examine these people on the basis of this provision, so that you can take a good look at who has what past, who has what to do, and those who really pose a risk to our country and to Hungarian people, and who can carry out appropriate procedures against them. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That is why I am asking you to support this proposal. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-04-01-407	Thank you very much. The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Group of Dialogue has proposed that the Parliament decide on the promotion of childbearing, H/4992. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Welfare Committee. The rapporteur is not present, so one representative per group of Members can now present his position within a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member may also present his position within a two-minute time frame. First of all, Daniel Z. Carpathian, of the Jobbik Group, order!
u2019-04-01-408	Mr President, Dear House, We have had long debates on what is missing from the government's demographic agenda, so that it does not have a braked foam, but can have a real impact, and obviously in the middle of a demographic winter, in a demographic disaster, any proposal that tries to move this situation in a positive direction is worth discussing, trying to solve problems and problems. Thus, we will support the debate of every proposal, which is about how catastrophic population processes can move in a positive direction in Hungary, regardless of our previous promise. The fact that the public mood has not improved in the last year is, unfortunately, also a sign that the number of live births has fallen again. Here, unfortunately, there is a 5.5 percent decrease compared to the same period a year ago, if we compare the results of two months, and it can also be said that the fertility rate that started as a commendable increase, so it moved from one to twenty to one over 1.5, now it has stopped again, and it has moved back to 1.44. This shows that we need to look at the data thoroughly, but even if it were 1.47 or 1.52, we wouldn't be able to reach it remotely, let's say, some of the Baltic states have an indicator around 1.7 so that I don't talk about anything higher. The replacement that took place in all the former socialist countries before 2010, however, in Hungary, due to the Bokros package and other economic terrorist acts, this development could only have taken place later. But unfortunately, this development has stalled, so we have to do everything we can to stop demographic winter in Hungary in a way that is superior to the parties, with national minimums, and we can finally start moving forward, because if everything goes well with common national minimums, it is still 30-40 years of programme to stop population loss, even if it is unprecedented for the time being. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] But we can and want to go through this successful journey. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-04-01-409	Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, LMP!
u2019-04-01-410	Thank you very much for the floor. A lot of people may think it's another boring proposal from the opposition, but it's not boring. I'll tell you why. Because as weird as it is, we were sent here to submit these boring proposals over and over again, ten, a hundred times, a thousand times, twenty thousand times, from where we came from, to bring here proposals expressing the opinion, request, wish, intention to correct the wrong fate of those social groups, because that is our job and we have the right to ask. How do we come to this, I don't understand that the committee rejects it, and we bring this proposal here? Really, I should be ashamed of myself, but I'm not, because the people who sent me here, I don't know from a list, the LMP fraction isn't big, we're gonna get it now, but I'm still here, just like everyone else. I have the right to submit, comment, ask, and we will do so. And not to capitalize on political capital, for at 11 o'clock, who else watches television, who deals with mediations? Nobody. But I'll tell you why. Because I want you to be here at some point, unfortunately, because I can't talk to anyone else because I can't see anything else from your party or from the other party, so I'm going to tell you that maybe one of you will feel that once in the evening, after you look at the evening recordings, study the records of what we say and read, then you'll think, yes, the time has come for me, a Fidesz or a KDNP representative to submit this, or a version of it in my own name. [[22.50]] I will not be interested in the fact that Kriszta Hohn's name will not be there, and I would be willing to bet that there will be a lot of opposition fellows who will not be interested in it, but the point will be to improve the situation of that particular social group. Thank you very much.
u2019-04-01-411	Thank you. Congressman Bence of Turdai, Dialogue!
u2019-04-01-412	Thank you. As a Quasi author, as a member of the Dialogue Group, I would like to briefly summarize the fact that we have already received the support of opposition factions on what the Dialogue proposal is about. We believe that if we want to support childbearing, then there is a path to life security and a predictable future in this direction. That is why we want to create first and foremost income security for families with children, double the family allowance, double the child, and thus take the first steps in the direction that the introduction of the basic income represents. After all, the double family allowance is about where the basic income of 30,000 forints for children would be, and the doubled child would be where the basic income of 60,000 forints for adults would be. Let us add that a net minimum wage of 150,000 is part of this package. But, of course, the security of housing is equally necessary, and many packages have been submitted, and there is full agreement between the opposition parties. Unfortunately, it still doesn't seem important to Fidesz. Perhaps a small difference is that we pay special attention to equality between women and men, whether this can be seen in pay or in progress, as is the possibility of reconciliation between work and private life in the case of female workers, in which I am indicating that the Hungarian Parliament is not taking the lead either, so that is why the Head of the Szabó Timea Group cannot be here now as a mother of small children. So these are the directions in which, I believe, there is agreement not only between the opposition parties, but also between the Hungarian people in general, that all who have children are entitled to support, not just the lucky few, not just the rich people Fidesz wants to see working on having children, but everyone, because everyone matters to us. Thank you very much.
u2019-04-01-413	Thank you very much. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, KDNP!
u2019-04-01-414	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am surprised that Dániel Z. Carpathian said that he considered this proposal eligible for some or some discussion. Many opposition proposals; I understand that many opposition proposals are supported in the great collapse, and obviously there is something that I read wholeheartedly, but when I last read it, Jobbik was still against the basic income programme, and this is part of the basic income programme. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: I will not support the basic income now, but why not argue?]] Basic income is what few places in the world have tried to introduce, and it has failed everywhere. [[Bence of Turdai: You're wrong! Z. Kárpát Dániel: Brother, this is called democracy, I know it is a foreign concept to you. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2019-04-01-415	It is a great pleasure for me that at 10:53 p.m., Congressman Nacsa will be so enthusiastic about his two minutes, but these are his two minutes, so please.
u2019-04-01-416	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There are few places in the world that have tried to introduce it, the basic income has failed everywhere, and you know it, but you're always trying to deny it, and Szabó Timea is also saying that there are shortcomings in the committee. In addition, the proposal for a decision also contains the serious legal text that each child has at least HUF 30 thousand per child per month. If this resolution proposal were to be adopted, they would knock on the door the next day that he would have 30,000, he would want 300 million forints, and he would like to receive 3 billion forints, because it says that at least, so he opened from above. [[Tordai Bence: Indexing!]] The Dialogue presented in a package the faction that did not participate in the discussion of the Family Protection Act and then did not vote in favour of it, and it also states that it intends to rule out discrimination against family models. So he would like to introduce legislation which contradicts the Fundamental Law, and most importantly, he would take it out, and I recommend that Mr Kárpát be paid to my fellow Member, Mr Dániel, that Szabó Timea removes the text from the law that media service providers are obliged to provide their services to the institution of marriage and to respect the values of family and child rearing in order to protect the objectives of this Act and children. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: I want to argue, and you don't!]] They want to erase that. This is the dialogue fraction strangled by PC liberal genderideology, who wants to replace both mother and father with parent. I congratulate you on your support, and we can't do that. Thank you very much.
u2019-04-01-417	Well, thank you very much for your comments. I would like to inform you that the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the 2012 CLXVIII on the tax on public utility lines in order to discharge the public utility tax in the water sector. T/5298 - Amendment of Law Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Economic Committee. First, I give the floor to the rapporteur, in this case to Mr Lóránt Keresztes, the leader of the LMP faction. Here you go.
u2019-04-01-418	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, We need to talk about a very important proposal and a very important issue here, as the last item on the agenda today. Here at this late hour, I welcome the two MPs present, and I hope that there will also be a pro-government speech on this item, because it would be very instructive. I would like to express, not party politics or opposition criticism here, but also the cry of the water profession. We have to say that the entire water sector is practically on the verge of collapse, the sector is in crisis and, in fact, the most important public service in Hungary is on the brink of collapse, and it must be acknowledged that this is a problem across government cycles. At the same time, it must be stated that the Fidesz government, which has been Regent since 2010, has taken measures that have exacerbated the situation of the sector. Moreover, it is necessary to highlight the sectoral special tax, the problem of the public utility tax, that their bill is about getting out of this sector. It is important to know, and I think my fellow Members know basically the problems, that, at the request of the water profession, various professional organisations publish a report almost annually, which they report in detail, and provide detailed evidence of why the water profession is at risk. I'd like to give you some details. The proportion of water systems with an appropriate rating has fallen below 20 per cent. Professionals account for 25 percent of network losses, so about 25 percent of drinking water flows through the poor quality pipe network. Since 2012, the number of failures has doubled and utility companies have other types of problems. In fact, the various reductions in public utility bills, which have been introduced, have virtually become uneconomical for all public-owned service companies, there are only a few exceptions, and accordingly, a huge shortage of professionals and a huge shortage of labour force are affecting the sector. One of the most important problems is, obviously, the lack of resources, the lack of resources for the maintenance and replacement of the various utility systems. We know that those responsible for the service, the municipalities, should prepare and deliver a rolling development plan for 15 years over a period of 15 years and be accepted by the municipal bodies. This plan is about determining what type of maintenance, replacement work should be carried out through the plumbing and sewage system for a 15-year period, and how much more would be needed in addition to the planned source, i.e. what amount is missing. According to various estimates, the missing amounts are between HUF 1500 billion and HUF 3000 billion. So according to the Hungarian Water Utility Association, about 1500 billion HUF is missing in the 15-year horizon, and the County City Association takes this amount to 3000 billion. I'll add that I've been trying to squeeze the exact amount of money out of the government for years. So I have asked various ministers and offices to see how much the missing amount is based on the national summary of rolling development plans, and I have tried to ask the government for years about the source it intends to produce. The answer was always from a tender source. They just don't answer when it comes to an amount of HUF 3000 billion over a 15-year horizon, what kind of funding the government is thinking of. The problem is huge, by the way. The proposal is about this concrete proposal, which now lies before the House in the form of a law, so that public utility tax is withdrawn from the water sector. This would roughly mean that public lines would not have to be taxed by public service companies. This would amount to about HUF 12-15 billion per year, and a maintenance fund could be created with this amount. Overall, this would not solve the extremely serious situation in the sector, but it would certainly be an important step to ensure that operators are not at least loss-making and that basic maintenance work can be carried out at least partially. We are debating the subject series, and I very much hope that the parliamentary majority will support us in discussing this, as my fellow members of the Commission, as well as in the recent answers, the competent minister acknowledged that the situation was extremely serious, the government felt that it was something that should be done. This is the first great opportunity. Thank you very much.
u2019-04-01-419	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. First, Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi, Jobbik, please. [[23.00]]
u2019-04-01-420	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, World Water Day was 22 March 2019. On this day the 110th anniversary of its existence was celebrated by the Regional Vízmű Zrt. of Dunántúli, which serves the public drinking water service and sanitation in 382 municipalities in Baranya, Fejér, Somogy, Veszprém, Zala and Tolna county. I looked at his report going back to 2014, HUF 1,25-1.3,11.3 billion a year, paid by this company for public utility taxes. This is assuming that HUF 1.3 billion will continue in 2018 for a five-year period of HUF 6.45 billion. This is what DRV Zrt. paid in the form of a tax and did not spend it on the very important investments that my fellow Member, the rapporteur, said. It's not uncommon to have 70-80-year-old pipes lying underground. This is a huge problem for municipalities, precisely because when they draw up the 15-year rolling development plans, they have to know very well when they want to renovate the street, because it is quite unpleasant that a municipality will make a trip, and then the 70-80-year-old pipe will burst and this investment will have to be re-established. The Jobbik Group is certainly in favour of inclusion in the series. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-04-01-421	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, LMP.
u2019-04-01-422	Thank you very much for the floor. As another person or representative of the proposal, it is a little late, so I find it very important to tell you from a municipal point of view, as Anita said before me, that, yes, it is a very big problem for municipalities to maintain municipal-owned waterworks. Several mayors have contacted me recently that they have been asked to make small or larger capital injections by the given waterworks, which they are unable to pay. For example, in a village of 220 people, two million forints would have to be paid, for which there is no money. Furthermore, it is very important to mention that the problem with the utility tax is that it exists on the one hand and that it is invented for a wire length, which is nonsense. Some villages don't get enough water to pay for the utility tax in that particular settlement. It's a little weird, isn't it? And the other is that my personal experience, in recent years, has really declined a lot. The bigger the water head was formed, right, first in our area was Komló-Water, then Mohács-Water, then Baranya-water, and so on, the bigger this organization became, the harder it was to operate, the worse the situation in the villages. I think that if this sector does not receive urgent assistance, at least that the utility tax will be withdrawn, there will be serious problems and that in a few years or a few decades there may not be healthy drinking water everywhere. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-04-01-423	Thank you very much. I'll see if anyone else wants to tell me. [[There's no candidate.]] No. I'll ask the author if he wants to reflect. [[For signal:]] Congressman, please.
u2019-04-01-424	Thank you very much. Mr President, It must be noted that in the meantime the number of government representatives present has decreased by 50 percent, so there is now only one pro-government representative in the Chamber, but I trust that my fellow Member will send the messages to the largest parliamentary group here, because I repeat that these are the signs of the profession and the demands of the profession. If we look at the professional proposals and professional materials that have been made in recent years, then there is a proposal for the removal of public utility tax from the water sector. I repeat that this alone does not solve the extremely serious and diverse problems of the sector, but it would definitely mean a lifeline. I would like to give another example to support the importance of this. We know that there are very large disparities in the country in terms of the water prices to be paid by the population in the various municipalities and regions. I'll give you an example. In Baranya, the Ormania, there is such a small regional water system, where due to extremely poor size efficiency, the already very poor population has to pay more than 900 HUF for a cubic meter of water. A loophole could be for them to connect to a larger and more efficient water system. To do so, however, we would need to build a longer power line, which is economically impossible because of the utility tax. Therefore, these extremely bad situations and restrictive factors are the reason why the utility tax should be imposed. I very much trust that my fellow Members will see that it is time to act, otherwise the most important public service will collapse and support this proposal in a series of subjects. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-04-01-425	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Mr István Apáti, an independent Member, has applied for a post-meeting speech. You have five minutes. Here you go.
u2019-04-01-426	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The title of my speech after the agenda may seem a little strong: let me see how much the gypsy province is worth. If I wanted to be cynical, condescending and superficial now, I would also reply that I am neither cynical nor condescending nor superficial. Although I am aware that this may not be Hungary's primary and most serious problem today, but if we look at the period just before the events of nearly a hundred years ago, from this perspective to 140-150 years ago, we can say that at some point 150 years ago, only then, on the part of the Serbs or Romanians, the Serbian or Romanian minority, it was somehow possible that they had come up with various separation and self-determination efforts. What inspired this question? The amazing ambition of the so-called Opre Roma-Cypsy Democratic People's Party, which has been published on several platforms in the last year and a half, has also been sent to Mi Hazank Movement in a somewhat similar manner, according to which Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County, Heves County and Nógrád County, although they do not perform this way, would essentially break away from Csonka-Hungary and there they want to create a Roma province called North Hungary. Here not only self-determination efforts and territorial claims appear, but also, a few minutes ago, another item on the agenda, the so-called basic income in connection with another debate. Practically, the angle came out of the bag immediately at the beginning, and the Gypsy intellectuals, as in his bad habit, are raging their own, on the one hand, and on the other hand immediately placing rights before the obligations, and immediately demanding such extra resources as a basic income, because it would be good to keep the financial umbilical cord with the Hungarian state, they think, for which there is absolutely no legal basis, no moral basis, no political or historical basis. Well, given that this country, nearly a hundred years ago, has experienced an unprecedented blow of fate, an unprecedented tragedy, one of the greatest sins of the political elite at that time is that it has not dealt with the various minority aspirations of previous years and decades before, so I would like to turn on imaginary emergency bells in due course, respecting the principle of proportionality. That's what the Homeland Movement did. A few days ago, we filed a complaint against constitutional order, as in this report we had to name the president of this Opre Roma-Gypsy Democratic People's Party, Mr.István Kamarás, who came up with this amazing ambition. Of course, they refer, as usual, to their superiors, to their increasing numbers, which are present in these northern and northeastern counties. But then let's look at the numbers, the raw figures. According to the 2011 census, 1 million 740,000 people live in these four counties. Of our 1 million 740 thousand compatriots, 138 thousand declared themselves members of the Gypsy minority, which would be about 8 percent of the total population. However, we know that reality is different and that a multiplier of at least three times can be added to this, as can be determined by visual inspection, if I can afford such a comment. The proportion of the Roma population is significantly higher. We estimate at least 400 thousand according to the 2011 data, which is at least...
u2019-04-01-427	Congressman, I must warn you...
u2019-04-01-428	Why, Mr. President?
u2019-04-01-429	If the Parliamentary Act is 48. § (1) you make a statement in violation of national, ethnic or racial communities, and I must order it, and by visual inspection any such discrimination constitutes racial discrimination. Please don't use that phrase. Let's just say it's clear.
u2019-04-01-430	Mr. President, all right, I'm gonna need a time-out. I am very proud to be found, by visual inspection, that I am a Hungarian man. I don't feel insulted at all, otherwise I'll just keep that down. So the reality is that at least 23-25 percent of these counties belong to the Gypsy minority. [[23.10]] However, when we look at the kindergarten and primary school age groups, we see that in most places this ratio is already between 51 and 100 percent, honourable Members. They don't see this about Budapest, Bel-Pest and Bel-Buda, but we, who live there, see it. I, too, am a szabolcs representative and, if you will, I am under attack on this proposal. As a Hungarian man, as a Member of Parliament of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, I must protest against this in the strongest and loudest way. We also recommend this to the attention of civil secret services by means of a complaint, because in any attempt of this kind, it is necessary to take into account or examine whether there may be foreign secret service threads behind the events, secret service subversive activities of a kind which seriously violate or threaten the territorial integrity of Hungary. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] So we are very confident that the investigating authority will feel its responsibility, feel its historical responsibility, and will effectively do everything in its power to suppress these efforts and reveal the full reality. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-04-01-431	Dear Parliament, Mr Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech. You have five minutes, Congressman. Here you go.
u2019-04-01-432	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In an ageing country, the proportion of our elderly countrymen is increasing. It is a key question of how the current power is in relation to our senior countrymen, and how it applies in everyday life, let us say, to the appreciation of the elderly by pro-government politicians on retirement days! Respect for the years! It's a slogan. Well, the fact is that the Nersevik regime, like the predecessors of the Bolshevik, is fond of demanding a permanent separation from Jobbik because of certain events that they have pulled out, enlarged, twisted, withdrawn from its context. We will now demand such a separation from Fidesz, because what KESMA, the chairman of the Board of the Central European Press and Media Foundation, Mr Sánthó, is allowed to do for himself, is astounding and totally unacceptable: in 2012 he wrote on his blog that Hungary is the country of the pissed-off police horses, and these pensioners are actually... I would rather not quote it. [[The president intervenes.]] Thank you for your understanding, Mr. President. So, we demand separation, and we demand that this man resign from this position of responsibility. More than 500 press products belong to the holding, and such a tremendously large weapon, such power, is not in the hands of such a man, who dares to reveal such an outrageous display of our fellow Hungarians of over two million ages, that is not where he is. Shame on the Fidesz. Shame on the KDNP. When Gábor Vona's withdrawn statement led government representatives to call the citizens of their district and alert our young countrymen with Jobbik, I guess they didn't think they were going to fall into their own trap. On Jobbik's side, we say that old people who have built this country, let's say, after the war, and have worked decades of hard work, will be honoured, there should be recognition, and that any retirement policy should be based on the basic pillars that say that these elderly people deserve a living, health, safety, and dignity. In a country where 50 percent of people who reach the age of 60 actually suffer from chronic or severe illness, and five out of the men, let's say, three of them are not worth being retired, is not simply worth dealing with grandchildren, can sacrifice themselves to their hobbies, talk about health, I think it's an illusion, unfortunately. And it is also an illusion to talk about a livelihood, when an average Hungarian pensioner receives an average daily pension increase of HUF 121 per day after the increase so exalted by the governing parties, treading on and desecrating the principles that would say that a differentiated pension increase would be necessary in Hungary, because it is not the case that the Nersevik comrades receiving millions of pensions may receive several thousand or tens of thousands of HUF per day, while many Hungarian countrymen's total pensions do not reach this level. It is not possible to talk about a livelihood when the EU average seems to be spending 13 percent of the pension on a GDP-related basis, it is 9 percent in Hungary, and since 2010, so pension poverty has doubled in Hungary over the last nine years. You can't talk about health when you cut off the legs of your diabetic, mostly elderly countrymen three or four times as much, because it's cheaper, and you can't talk about dignity and security when you have tens of thousands of waiting lists, and it's quite simply impossible to get into social services. It is not possible to talk about dignity even when, say, on 9 February, the Hungarian Retirement Parliament could not hold its meeting here in the house of the country, because the orange gentlemen made it impossible for all reasons, and they had to hold the very important conference elsewhere, where they reported what the elderly society in Hungary needed. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] We have this in mind, unfortunately the government does not, but it is time and it would be appropriate to hear the voices of our elderly countrymen. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-04-01-433	Thank you very much, as I thank you for all your daily work. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Parliament will resume its meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. Good evening, everyone. Good night.
