u2019-10-28-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The fourth day of the fall session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Simicskó, notary, who will be arriving later and will help me, notary György Szilágyi. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, I declare that Ádám Mirkóczki, Jobbik, Member, informed the President of the Parliament that he had resigned on 25 October 2019. I declare that the number of Members of Parliament is currently 198. Dear Parliament, Today we start our work with speeches before the agenda. The questions will then take place from 12:15 a.m. to 13:45 a.m. to approximately 13:45 a.m. to 14:45 a.m. for immediate questions and answers. Finally, we will conclude the session of the Parliament with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Ms Zita Gurmai, MSZP Group, spoke with the title of Social Inclusion. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-10-28-1	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary of State! Fellow Members! Down syndrome is one of the most common congenital disorders, born with this chromosomal defect in 700 children. Since it's not a disease, it's a genetic disorder, it can't be cured. It is therefore essential that the state does everything to ensure that people with Down syndrome are accepted by society, and that they and their parents who foster them receive all the help they can get. Let's just say that this kind of help is a civilizational minimum. Unfortunately, the Hungarian government often fails to provide basic assistance to those affected by Down syndrome. On the one hand, he does not prepare parents for the birth of a child with Down's disease. The tests supported by social security are inaccurate; often they do not recognise the risk in cases where they have it or, on the contrary, in the case of a healthy baby, they indicate an extremely high risk. And this inaccuracy forces pregnant mothers to pay for screenings in private health institutions that give accurate results. At the same time, there are many people who, for financial reasons, cannot afford these tests that cost 100 to 200 thousand forints. Moreover, the government does not provide adequate support in raising children in an incomprehensible way, as the government does not provide home care fees to parents with Down syndrome children, even though this kind of care is given to parents who have autistic children, for example. Just by the way, parents of children with chronic illness, severe epilepsy, diabetes and rare diseases are not entitled to the home care fee. This double standard is incomprehensible. Most of the time, a child with Down's syndrome needs full-time supervision, so the parent simply can't work with him. Nevertheless, the state does not support the parent who remains at home, even though it is a job, and it is one of the hardest. Let us not forget that the development of a child with Down syndrome is also special. He needs to be taken care of differently, taking care of him differently than healthy children. Why is the government ignoring this? If this government is serious about our family's first slogan, then much more assistance should be given to families helping their children with Down syndrome. Moreover, the government is not doing enough for the employment of adult Down syndromes, so I ask what they are planning to do to improve their employment. Finally, let me say a few words about the acceptance of Down syndrome and people with disabilities in general. The European Commission has recently carried out an investigation on this subject, which paints a devastating picture of Hungary. This report shows that the acceptance of people with disabilities in Hungary is lower than in other countries of Europe, they are more often discriminated against. They have much less chance of getting a job because employers are reluctant to employ them. But even coworkers find it harder to work with people with Down syndrome or other disorders. This survey therefore shows that Hungarian society is not inclusive of people with disabilities and does not accept them in everyday life. This should not be the case, however, because it could be changed by thinking, by appreciating children with Down syndrome. Let's just say, instead of the 10 billion-dollar propaganda, the government should help us, and then maybe we can get to the point where people who are now raised to be excluded are handing the Down Syndrome people a hand. Thank you so much for listening.
u2019-10-28-2	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-10-28-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I believe that it is the job of all well-spoken people and all governments to provide Down syndrome, tangible assistance for people with disabilities, and to extend the various benefits, benefits, or various occasions when they can provide assistance to them. You have also mentioned the issue of home care and the fee for children's home care. At the end of last year and at the beginning of this year, you were trying to tell everyone that the home care fee was true, that you did not support this at the time, and I will return to this later, but in addition to the rise, there was a set of conditions that, whether autistics, Down syndromes or others, would be difficult and that the number of people entitled to the care fee would decrease, even though they acknowledged that the rate of the child's home care fee had increased. Life has disproved you, for the number of people who have received a care fee has increased by thousands. So the alarms you said earlier that this number will decrease noticeably, not only did it decrease, but also increased, and the budgetary expenditure that can be spent on this has also increased noticeably, and if I compare it with your period, even more so. What we spent 27 billion forints on last year's care fee, this year we will spend 45 billion forints, and next year 55 billion forints, precisely because those who are in a difficult situation raise their children, not only raise them, but also take care of them day by day, they will receive more help. And as I said, in two years, the amount we can spend on a care fee will increase from HUF 27 billion to HUF 55 billion. We very much regret that, when the opposition could have voted on this on 12 December here, in Parliament's building, even that we would radically raise the care fee, which you have demanded for months before, or that, in other cases, for the foster parents, this is a different kind of social benefit, but we should also extend it to them, for example, that they should be entitled to it, in these votes you were more beeping, honking, self-ping, and did not support it here in Parliament when it was possible. You, Congresswoman, have also spoken about the employment of people with disabilities. Here, too, you can clearly see the difference between the period of your governance and the period of our governance, both in perspective and in effectiveness. You have put the emphasis on aid in this area. We have placed the emphasis on helping people acquire skills that help them in the labour market and then helping them to get a job. Thus, there are different training courses in which people with disabilities can learn the different skills and skills they need to work in practice. And we have introduced the rehabilitation card, which we have also made employers interested in, with a very high rate of employer tax reduction and a reduction in contributions, to employ people with a rehabilitation card, so to employ people with changed job skills. [[11.10]] This has increased the level of employment in this area from 18,000 to 41 thousand, Congresswoman. This is, however, a noticeable change, and this is also due to the fact that the social system has been adapted in this way, and also to the fact that our economy is at an upward stage rather than downhill. But it took not only the economic stimulus, but also the introduction of the rehabilitation card and the additional support for it, as this is a tax reduction, which is obviously a loss of budget revenue, but now the Hungarian budget was able to stand for it. That's why the employment rate here was lucky to rise from 18,000 to 41,000. So the questions you raise here, whether for people with disabilities or for people with Down syndrome, are obviously important questions. In terms of subsidies involving autists, Down syndromes or others, you may also know the numbers of the Budget Act: we have increased the number of grants that we give to organisations with different disabilities. You now know, you know, that if someone needs, say, a signal interpreter service and goes into a government window, you can now have it online, precisely through our cooperation with the Alliance of Deafs, providing budgetary resources, grant grants. In recent years, we have tried to improve the lives of these families, and we have already had the positive effects we have mentioned in recent cycles, from the surplus that has been made in the budget as a result of the government's economic policy. We hope that we can help these people a lot more. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-28-4	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Arató, Member of the Democratic Coalition, has also applied for a speech before the agenda, with the title 'Government' in Budapest. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-10-28-5	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Here in Parliament, too, we can hear on several occasions how important it is for you to consider the repression of radical Islam, the prevention of Islamic terrorism, and I believe that this is the issue in which there is no debate between us, in which both sides of the Parliament agree perfectly. In addition, there is much reference to the protection of Christian culture; last week I expressed my position on what you understand. In any case, whether we look at this or that fact, it is surprising that public opinion has been informed that the Turkish Maarif Foundation can create an Islamic school in Budapest with government support. This is a school where the Koran is a compulsory subject, and where one of the most important things to know outside the Koran is the unlimited love and respect of President Erdoğan. It is quite peculiar that a school of this type can operate in Budapest. We also need to know that although the foundation claims to be independent of the Turkish Government and the Turkish President, this is a simple lie. In reality, President Erdoğan personally appoints seven members of the board of 12 members of the Foundation, and the Turkish Ministry of Education contributes significantly to the operation of this foundation. The functioning of the foundation's schools is accompanied by scandals around the world. They have most schools in Afghanistan, for example, when it turned out that an Istanbul pizza salesman was given a teaching opportunity at this school because he was sufficiently loyal to the party and the president. Or it turns out that the school principal in Batum and this is a much more serious matter was dropped out of a religious school in Turkey because he molested schoolgirls, but in this foundation, he could still be a school principal. It is even more worrying and even more serious that the foundation is linked to radical Islam, including Islamic terrorism. At a school in Albania at the foundation, a teacher was arrested because in class he was showing propaganda videos of the Islamic State terrorist organization, and he explained that, in fact, terrorists are good people whose primary purpose is to protect Muslims. The Maarif Foundation itself has several ties to various Islamist terrorist organizations. His current vice president was the founder of a so-called charity organization called IHH. This is an organization that the CIA classified as a radical organization in 1996 and is connected to everyone from the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt to the Hamas to the Chechnya division in Al-Qaeda. The organization's lawyer regularly meets the leader of Hamas, when Baszayev, leader of Chechen Islamic militias, died in 2006, he was given a symbolic burial in Istanbul, and Usama bin Laden is regarded as the innocent victim of American terrorism. Israel considers the IHH to be a terrorist organization, in Germany all activities were banned in 2010, and most Western secret services are under constant surveillance. Not only is this branch of this foundation connected to radical Islam, but Saudi Arabia is also among its supporters, and vahabita Islam is one of its supporters, or is associated with it. This is the Islamic trend, according to which democracy is not mentioned in the Koran, so a good Muslim cannot accept it as a state form. After that, it may not be surprising that the schools of this foundation are not licensed anywhere in Europe, only in Romania and now in Hungary. It is not surprising that there is no welcome anywhere for this foundation, whose main goal is to support the dictatorial Turkish President and to spread Islam, it is no coincidence that they are receiving this foundation with suspicion everywhere except, of course, in Hungary, where they fight radical Islam and defend Christian culture by welcoming such an organization linked to radical Islam. We could ask you what you're thinking, but of course we know. As long as private businesses go with President Erdoğan, nothing matters to you, until the bombing of small children doesn't matter, it doesn't matter that you have to be friends with the Islamic systems that are chasing Christians, it doesn't matter, they open the door to radical Islam and Islamic terrorism. Until then, all you're doing is talking about Europe's defence, and you're actually doing the opposite. Thank you very much.
u2019-10-28-6	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Tamás Menczer wishes to respond. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2019-10-28-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Let's try to clean up this immeasurable amount of mess that you've been kind enough to draw out over the past few minutes. I would like to start with the school, since you have paid the most attention to this, and I would like to say briefly that you are not aware of the context and you are not aware of the facts. You're making statements that tell you very well that you have no idea what the context really is here. [[Gergely Arató: Disprove it, Secretary of State. The president's ringing the bell.]] In relation to the context, Parliament's meeting is not suitable for all details to be made public [[Uproar and intervention in the ranks of opposition parties.]] But I suggest you be calm, calm, comrades. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Tell that to Comrade Fat, my friend.]] I suggest you take a look at the schools that operate in Budapest, whatever Turkish-bound schools. See if you can find something that you like, try to put the puzzles together, and then you might even commend the Hungarian government on this; although we do not require such praise about you and about you. So once again, I suggest you get to know the context. [[Péter Ungár: But what context?]] Don't give an opinion without it. Mr President, Dear House, However, I find it more serious that you, like many others in Europe, are playing sport by criticising Turkey, Turkish leaders and President Erdoğan. I'm sorry, but I don't think that's entirely compatible with common sense. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] Because in foreign policy, it is okay to take reality into account. Foreign policy is politics in general, but foreign policy in particular is a genre that reality is not a bad thing to take into account. And the reality is that there are four million immigrants in Turkey, and when you talk about protecting Europe and terrorism, not to mention the protection of Christians... I am sorry that I wasn't here last week when I heard you speak about Christians, but it was an exciting moment for the Hungarian parliamentary life, but let us stay with Europe and the threat of terror. So the situation and reality is that there are four million immigrants in Turkey, and President Erdoğan has made it clear that Turkey has reached the end of its capacities, there are two options: either it will move them to Europe or it will put them back in Syria. [[Zsolt Gréczy: What about the school?]] And the even more serious problem is that for years pro-immigration politicians, you and your Brussels policy friends have been playing sport by criticizing the Turkish President for such reasons. Where is the security of Europe in whose hands? In whose hands, ladies and gentlemen? Turkey and President Erdoğan have the security of Europe. [[11.20]] I do not think it is logical to constantly criticize someone who has European security in his hands. And it is in your hands because your pro-immigration friends in Brussels have done nothing in recent years to strengthen Europe's security in order to strengthen European security. In fact, instead of taking steps to protect the European continent, those who did this, for example, wanted to organise migration rather than stop the Hungarian government. [[Gergely Harvester: You're lying!]] So if you judge the Turkish President, President Erdoğan, and once he decides to direct hundreds of thousands and millions of immigrants to Europe, then he knows what can stop the Turkish President from making that decision: nothing. Absolutely nothing, because Europe, the European external borders, remain defenceless because pro-immigration politicians have done nothing in this regard. The only thing that worked and works more or less, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to migration, is the agreement between the EU and Turkey that you are trying to undermine right now. I would like to draw attention to the fact that Greece is already in a situation in 2015, reports from the Greek islands are constantly coming, the situation is unbearable, immigrants are being brought into the continent, into the interior of Greece, and everyone is moving towards the interior of Europe. And if this happens in a hundred thousand respects, the Hungarian fence and the Hungarian border will be the first point where we can stop. But we do not want to see the conditions we saw at Röszke and at the Hungarian border again in 2015. Ladies and Gentlemen, Perhaps even so, I assume that Mr Arató's next speech will be in connection with President Putin the DK threesome: Christianity, Erdoğan, Putin, and when we get there, we will be happy to continue and relive the story of Ferenc Gyurcsány and Toto. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Dr. István Simicskó takes over his notary seat.]]
u2019-10-28-8	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Krisztina Hohn, Member of the LMP Group, asked for a pre-meeting speech:, Let's talk about it, because we need to talk about it. It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-10-28-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, There are some issues that are difficult to talk about. One of them is child abuse. According to the WHO definition, as known, child abuse and neglect, mistreatment includes physical and/or mental abuse, sexual abuse, neglect or neglectful treatment, commercial or other exploitation, which results in actual or potential harm to the health, survival, development or dignity of the child in a relationship based on responsibility, trust or power. Ladies and gentlemen, Did you know that 30 children died in Hungary, for example, in 2013, as a result of child abuse or neglect? Did you know that the vast majority of child abuse belongs to the category of domestic violence, which officially affects 7 to 8,000 children every year? Did you know that in reality, there are many cases that do not surface, reach child protection professionals? Did you know that sexual abuse is only committed about 7 percent of the time unknown? Which means he's 93 percent related or family friend, maybe a neighbor. That fathers, grandfathers, uncles, brothers, stepfathers do these acts against a large majority of children, often quite small children. Did you know that over 90 percent of the unsubs are male, and only 20-30 percent are adolescent? Did you know that those with high education abuse children in the same proportion as those with low education? Sadly, the abuse committed by people with high social status or even those who are well-respected is less likely to come to light, because in such cases, victims rightly expect that their environment will not believe them. There is a legitimate question as to how this can be done. Are we keeping our eyes closed, or do we not want to notice the obvious signs in many cases? Don't you see anything in the school, in the neighborhood, in the kinship? How can those affected, families, and relatives resolve the feeling of shame so that they dare to say that there is a problem and that they need help? Why is it that if the child or one of the family members, such as the mother, turns to help, they do not believe him or their immediate surroundings, or they do not even try to investigate, or there is a procedure for the victim to experience horrors over and over again? Did you know that in most cases, these cases get stuck in the process of proof? But why? Did you know that the reason you're not always recording during the child's hearing is because you didn't audition for who, but for who? Did you know that in many cases the seconded expert is an adult psychologist? Did you know that detectives have no responsibility if they don't ask the questions properly, or if they don't act in accordance with professional standards, and the child's interrogation becomes useless? The primary task of government and society would be to support families in such a way as to take on as many difficulties and problems as possible. But I would also like to highlight the role of educational and educational institutions, where greater moral and financial appreciation for teachers could lead to less tension, conflict and abuse. Teachers could also be actively involved in the operation of the signalling system, providing information, a healthy diet and education for family life. It is important to strengthen the role of specialist services, doctors and women in the prevention and resolution of situations, as it is up to them to break this pathological process. In addition, the penalties for perpetrators of real childhood abuse should be further strengthened at the statutory level. For abused children and parents and adults, it would be important to build a state-funded host home system, which would not only be about reception, but also about rehabilitation, psychotherapy support, from which they would be able to get out and back into society spiritually. In fact, my speech was inspired by several stories I heard from their parents. Unfortunately, recently, a 17-year-old child attempted suicide because of an old sexual continuous abuse that still has no solution to this day. Luckily, he didn't manage to die, but I still think we need to talk about this. Let's talk about it because we need to talk about it. You think so, don't you? Thank you very much.
u2019-10-28-10	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-10-28-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, No child is to blame for what kind of family is born, richer or poorer, in a family environment where they are loved, cared for, or made sacrifices by their parents that parents would not do for themselves, or in a family where they are neglected, or in a family or environment where the child is abused. Therefore, it is important for the State to help by all means to prevent these cases of violence or abuse, and if such cases occur, the person who has committed this should be legally liable to be punished, and also to deter him and others from committing such and similar acts in the future. In this case, the government has taken countless steps, both for prevention and for reconnaissance. You know and know that, both in the Fundamental Law and in the newly adopted Criminal Code, children are placed in a high-profile protected group, with increased legal protection under the new Criminal Code, which opposition representatives did not vote for children, precisely so that the level of protection is as high as possible for them. In order to explore as many places as possible to turn to the neighbor, to the other parent, to anyone else or to the child himself, we transformed the social welfare system five years ago in such a way that there is family and child welfare service in all walks, so that we have multiplied the number of them, precisely so that help can be caught up in all walks. In every county, every county police station, we created child-friendly hearing rooms. It's regulated to have natural lighting; like a nursery, they're furnished. There can only be a few people in the room, others only have the opportunity to watch the dialogue through a glass wall, which is said during the hearing, precisely because you know that when you tell the children what happened to them and they relive it, it means another and another trauma. So they say these things as often as possible and in a more child-friendly environment. So in every county, every county police station, we created a child-friendly hearing room. We also modified the procedural laws so that it would take place less in its own strike, adult system, when the child is the victim, but in a language more understandable to children, better explained in the whole process, whether in the police or in the court, precisely so that we do not bring this trauma out of the child again and again and put it in a situation like an adult victim who can handle it somewhat better. Although I don't think any of the victims handle a violent crime easily. [[11.30]] It was important, as you said, that the facts of the relationship violence were also published in the Criminal Code by Act C of 2012. This was not supported by opposition representatives, not even by the independent members of your LMP fraction at the time, and by a separate amendment motion, this could have been included in the Criminal Code and the whole Criminal Code was not supported. Neither the specific element of the tightening of facts nor the full criminal code was supported. When we amended the Child Protection Act in 2015 and created the secret safe houses, which, in your opinion, play a very important role, the opposition did not support this amendment here in Parliament, even though it had the opportunity. Nevertheless, we have tried to increase the number of these different aid places. In 2018, we managed to set up five new crisis centres, set up 7 new secret safe houses, create 7 crisis clinics and 15 halfway exits. This is billions of forints, about 3 billion forints of development that we could create for the protection of children and abused wives, parents and mothers. This can help many people on an annual basis, honourable Member. The National Crisis Management and Information Telephone Service received 9391 calls in 2018, and they were obviously processed, there were cases in which several telephone calls were made, some of which were not identifiable, but which resulted in 335 women, 901 children, almost three times as many children as women and 7 men, at least to a temporary or medium-term location where they live safely and do not have to be afraid of physical violence. Besides, since I'm getting to the end of my time, I'm just gonna mention it, it was the, uh, notice. The campaign was also supported by the government, the pre-victim program aimed at schoolchildren with thousands of students, the media authority also took steps, there was a special call for proposals for the development of crisis management services, and this is also an important part of the programme of the family-friendly country. So we tried to help these children in a number of ways. I ask you to convince your fellow Members to vote in Parliament when there is such a proposal before the Parliament. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-10-28-12	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Bence Tordai, Group of Dialogue, also spoke before the agenda, with a title on current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-10-28-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens in front of the screens! On October 13, when the Hegemony of Fidesz was swept away by Hungarian voters in the capital and other major cities, a new era began in Hungary's history. A new era has begun, in which Fidesz no longer has a monopoly, and perhaps it is no longer sensible to talk about government and opposition, because he says that Viktor Orbán has recently confirmed that the.Home cannot be in opposition. Recent research has already shown that the opposition is in the majority, so I would ask you to stop identifying yourselves with the country, not refer to Hungary if the country cannot be in opposition, then you should not pretend to be in opposition. So there is a new era, which can only be interpreted with a completely new approach, a new approach, a new worldview and new dictionaries. I suggest you see and see a picture of two worlds, two alternatives. On the one hand, Viktor Orbán has an authoritarian state capitalism and the idea of the Republic of Budapest led by Gergely Christmas. These are very, very different worlds. I'm sure you'll scream that I don't have a will, but when László Kövér himself, President of the Parliament, says that the system of brakes and balances is literally meaningless, and forget that he said that balances, we believe in counterweights, but he said that brakes and balances, but even this doesn't make any sense, and this is the past, then perhaps it's not a problem if we say that you're following an arbitrary rule practice. On the other hand, in Budapest and other cities managed by the opposition, the Republic's idea will prevail, which is inclusive, solidarity and inclusive, and which is also well represented by the slogan "Budapest for All." Your form of state is no longer a republic, but the idea that Gergely Christmas represents in Budapest and what the Republican opposition is building in many Hungarian cities is the very foundation of the republic of equal citizens. Let us look at some areas where these two worlds, this authoritarian state capitalism and the free Republic world are different. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Is the eyeball part of this?]] On the one hand, there is corruption [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Subway 4.]] [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Subway 4.]] [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Subway 4.]] Your perhaps most important activity. (Dr. Bence Rétvári: Metro 4!) Recent news is that the EU will impose a fine of HUF 300 billion (Dr. Bence Rétvári: Metro 4!) The Butchers, Tiborczok and their Borkas have been blessed with the Hungarian taxpayers. On the other hand, as already in Zugló, Gergely Christmas will be the first measure of the first board meeting to introduce transparency and anti-corruption package in Budapest. Or let's see what it's like when you take care of housing and people's accommodations. You spend 50 billion to move half a ministry, some departments of the Treasury Department, to the Castle. With this money, two thousand families could be found at home without any cost. Compared to this, the evictions will be stopped in Budapest by Gergely Christmas, and the housing support that you have abolished has already been traced back to Zugló as part of the social model. Or let's see how they even use our common spaces. Viktor Orbán moves to the Castle to look down from there, and in the meantime, if we talk about, say, another important public square, Parliament, journalists will be banned from here. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Parliament Public Square?]] Gergely Christmas at the first joint celebration opened the courtyard of the City Hall so that the cars of the people of power would not be parked there, but the power of the people of Budapest could be celebrated. Let's take a look at, say, the economic model. You provide the Hungarian workers to international and domestic multinational companies, exploit them, introduce the slave law, and in the meantime support and spoil those who do not need it, the large companies. Compared to this, one of the first measures of Gergely Christmas will be to prohibit the application of the slave law to the capital companies and to impose, for example, the Tiborcz tax. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Ferenc Gyurcsány?]] the NER-horse billionaires who bought the most expensive properties in Budapest. [[Will Dr. Bence Rétvári: Ferenc Gyurcsány pay? Are you taxing Gyurcsány? Are Gyurcsány and Bajnai paying?]] And if I had more time, I could continue with the way Viktor Orbán punches the eastern despots and simply embarrass Hungary, especially as regards the case of the Turkish genocide against the Kurds. Compared to this, Gergely Christmas lays the Kurdish flag on City Hall and washes off the reproach that Viktor Orbán has put on the name of the nation. Thank you very much.
u2019-10-28-14	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-10-28-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, As far as the numbers are concerned, I am sorry that we have to continue this debate, but I think we have to. The governing parties were supported by 1.8 million people on 13 October [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: That's right! Dr. Bence Rétvári: Read HVG!]] the opposition parties are 1.3 million people. [[Tamás Menczer: Fresh research, still crispy!]] Cut! It's a clear result, and it puts in full parentheses the mildest expression you've ever spoken of. The thing is, you guys have been confused because for years there's been a rumor that in this election system, opposition parties can't kick the ball. Turns out they won in a few places on October 13th. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] including in the capital, and these two things, that they want to be happy about, and the claim that opposition parties cannot win in this election system, cannot coordinate. There is a reason for this, and the fact that what you have said in recent years has been a net lie. [[Németh Szilárd István: Gross!]] because the Hungarian electoral system and this truth gives every party the opportunity to win if they have good performance, they have some performance. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right! Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] That's it, Your Honour. As far as the aspects of Budapest are concerned, you have forgotten about this. The transfer and transfer took place in the metropolitan authorities and in the mayor's office. In this context, it is essential that the outgoing mayors hand over the city management with a significant financial surplus, with a surplus of exactly 93 billion. This is completely contrary to the Demszky era. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] One of the worst consequences was that the government had to take over over $200 billion in debt from the capital. (Bence of Turdai interrupts.) [[11.40]] Budapest was still on the brink of bankruptcy. [[Intercoms. The president's ringing the bell.]] István Tarlós fixed the finances [[There's an uproar in the opposition benches.]] And now all district leaders and the mayor have the opportunity to further develop and strengthen Budapest. It's in our mutual interest, by the way. It's just a low note that Gergely Christmas led Zugló's account reportedly had only HUF 50 million in September. [[Bence Tordai: 2 billion forints more!]] which is not a very large reserve for a district. Perhaps this is the reason why he writes on page 8 of Népszava that Zugló wants to sell smaller and larger real estate. It's not a very good situation; it hasn't been, and let's just hope that this is not the practice you want to introduce in the capital. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Privatization is coming again.]] With regard to the other aspects of the municipal elections, unfortunately, last week we felt that Gergely Christmas was not the future, but the past. Even though you're bringing young people on stage, you can't say theatreically that we're making a cool city out of Budapest, behind the screens we see the figures of the past with sticky hands. And it is absurd in itself that Gábor Demszky's medal has come up. Why should the politics that almost set Budapest up be decorated, awarded a medal? ! [[Bence Tordai: István Tarlós!]] Let's just say it's not too surprising for those who awarded medals to the 2006 police officer. Then let's look at the deputy mayors, speaking of bureaucracy. If we understand correctly, it has not yet been decided, but five deputy mayors will be able to babysit Gergely Christmas. [[Bence of Turdai laughs.]] Where's the famous bureaucracy cut you all refer to? ! An alternate candidate, for example, is Kata Tüttő. Well, he didn't start the socialist industry today either. Do you know where Kata Tüttő was between 2002 and 2010? Do you know which committee? Well, on the public procurement committee. Gergely Christmas would leave the deputies to someone who could watch Miklós Hagyó go on a rampage. Under these circumstances, there is a very high risk that the capital will be redistributed. What can be expected in practice is illustrated by the example of Csaba Horváth. The ink dried recently on his appointment, but he was already trying to weaken transparency and avoid the body of representatives by raising the limit that could act on his own authority over the head of the body. In the case of real estate, he wanted to increase this ceiling to 250 million, i.e. a quarter of a billion. Now, that's a strong start, and there was such an outrage that he eventually withdrew it, but the whole case shows what the new left-wing leadership has in mind. How did your boss, Gergely Christmas, say that? Csaba has at least the brains to know what it is to go to jail for. It's obviously very embarrassing on the outside, and it's embarrassing in many ways. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That is what it is, honourable Member, when the left takes back Budapest. This team is as new as Miklós Hagyó's nokis box and parizere. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It hasn't been long, but we're not gonna let them bring back the Demszky era, you can be sure of that. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-10-28-16	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Also before the agenda, Mr Hajnalka Juhász, Member of the KDNP Group, asked for a speech on local aid as the most effective humanitarian aid. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-10-28-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, With local assistance and an approach not to allow the problem to enter Europe, the Hungarian government has created a unique humanitarian crisis management. I am convinced that personal contact with church leaders in the Middle East and the identification of what these communities need to survive are the most effective humanitarian aid. The prospects and challenges of Christian communities differ significantly in the most ancient centers of religion, Syria, Egypt and Iraq, and therefore there is no way to provide a general, homogeneous humanitarian cooperation response to the various problems that international organisations are trying to impose. It seems that jihadists in some areas, such as Iraq, want to achieve one of their most important goals, to eliminate the trace of Christianity, while the intimidation of Egyptian Christians is becoming increasingly widespread and more systematic. It is in mankind's fundamental interest that ancient Christian communities should not be forced to leave their homeland and culture. The key to their survival is to enforce universal human rights and religious pluralism in the cradle of Christendom. Our country has already taken the initiative to voice the ever - increasing persecution of Christians. Following the success of the international conference in October 2017 to present the reality of Christian persecution in international forums, the Secretary of State, in charge of helping persecuted Christianity and implementing the Hungarian Helps, organises for the second time one of the world's largest political, ecclesiastical and scientific international forums on Christian persecution. The second international conference event will take place in Budapest between 26 and 28 November 2019. With this conference, the Hungarian government wants to lay the foundations for real humanitarian action. The mission of this year's international conference is also to find a response and a solution to the most silent humanitarian crisis of our time, the tragic phenomenon of Christian persecution. The conference includes representatives of church dignitaries, high-ranking political and government leaders, Members of Parliament, international civil society organisations and scientific life, who together are able to offer hope and real life security to Christian communities persecuted for their religion. The large-scale event also aims to provide a special forum for their western and eastern Christian church leaders, personal meetings and discussions in the spirit of intercontinental dialogue. In addition to ensuring continuous dialogue, the Hungarian government has already helped thousands of families affected by war conflicts in the Middle East to stay in their homeland instead of emigration. With the help of the Hungarian government, the town of Tell-Askuf, Iraq, was able to return nearly a thousand families. I am happy to share with you the latest results of our diplomatic work on local aid. In the framework of the cooperation agreement signed last year with the United States International Development Agency, the Hungarian government is starting to restore the cities of the largest Christian city in Iraq, Karakos and Sinjar in the Nineveh plateau with the United States. Within the framework of the Hungarian-American cooperation, it ensures the safe return of the Christian community by restoring the local commercial centers and shops of the city, as well as by rebuilding residential houses. Hungary, with American cooperation, will continue to help the persecuted communities locally, setting up a model to follow in the framework of the Hungarian Helps, and with humanitarian projects implemented by the Hungary Helps Agency. Therefore, not only do we talk about helping persecuted Christians, but the Hungarian government has real, tangible results. Ladies and gentlemen, As a Christian Democratic Member, I would like to draw attention again and again to local assistance as the importance of the most effective humanitarian cooperation. I believe that international dialogue forums, in addition to raising awareness, give us the opportunity to find the right solutions to create conditions for genuine reconciliation and security in the Middle East, reflecting on reality. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-10-28-18	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2019-10-28-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I would like to thank you for your interest in this subject, and thank you very much for bringing this subject to the House of the country from week to week, which, in our view, is crucial. This is a conflicting issue when we talk about Christian culture, but what I would like to make clear here is that Hungary and the Government of Hungary do not say that everyone must believe, or everyone must live a religious life. A European civilization based on Christian culture means accepting the basic principles that Christian believers and atheists in Europe claim to own. Our entire civilization, those principles of law, the economic principles that we all claim to be ours, feed on Christian cultural roots. It is common to say that the atheist is also a Christian in Europe. The approach that Mr Arató himself takes, for example, has repeatedly said that he sees himself as an atheist, he can only do so in a Christian cultural context, because it is the concept of human dignity based on Christianity that enables the separation of the state and church, state and religion, and allows everyone to have freedom of thought and religion. [[11.50]] That's the common ground we can start from. On the other hand, we see that if we go to other areas in the world, such as areas outside Europe, then Christianity and Christian dogma and theological foundation are stabilising factors in those areas, precisely because of what Christianity means in Europe. It means the same in the Middle East as it does tolerance, and it acts as a religion based on people created in the image of God, either in Asia or in the Middle East or in South America or in Africa. This is important because it is a stabilising force in a civilization and geopolitical sense in that region. So for us Europeans, regardless of what we think about religious matters, whether we agree on religious matters, we have a civilizational and geopolitical interest in supporting Christian communities around the world, Europe and North America in general outside the Christian-based world. This is also our responsibility, because the facts and research clearly show that Christianity is the most persecuted religion in the world. It follows that it should also be the most supported religion on the part of European civilisation. However, the opposite of this is reality: while it is one of the most persecuted religions, the vast majority of countries based on Christian culture and roots in Europe turn away from these Christian communities, which means that these Christian communities lose their support and foundation, and are becoming scarce in areas where it would be crucial to keep their numbers stable at least, but, if possible, to increase. And as this happens, these areas are turning into increasingly unstable areas. This is why the Hungary Helps programme is crucial, and we hope that we will continue to convince opposition representatives and international partners that we do not agree on many things, but this is an area where the interests of Europeans and the interests of Hungarians are the same, the interests of everyone, left, right, believers and unbelievers are the same. We need to help those communities stay put. Besides, they don't even want to come. If we are able not only to preach support in a hypocritical way, or to send them grants that they cannot do, and in fact the whole thing is just about what we might want to absorb their raw materials or other resources, but we really are paying attention to what local communities need, and we are able to get them there in the form of support, for example, to rebuild a city, which you mentioned I was lucky enough to see before the reconstruction, to run schools and educational institutions, then these people are a real option to stay in the place, and so Christianity can fill the stabilization factor that it needs to fill in those regions. So once again, I would like to thank the Member woman for her work in this regard, and I would like to ask for the support of the Parliament for the continuation of this programme in the future. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-28-20	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Máté Kocsis, Head of the Group, Fidesz Group, has applied for a pre-meeting address with the title of our current affairs. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor.
u2019-10-28-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, At last week's parliamentary session, there was quite an unprecedented rudeness in the building of the Hungarian Parliament, when Congressman Ákos Hadházy violated Parliament's authority with obscene inscription. I think that all good people, even if they're sitting on the benches of the opposition, can't argue that this is the style that doesn't belong here, and that's the style that doesn't fit at all, and there's a limit to everything. It cannot be such a political debate when the elected Hungarian Prime Minister, who spoke on the pulpitus, can be put in such an unworthy position, but it is certainly not part of the political debate culture that we print out obscene inscriptions in large letters in the building of the Hungarian Parliament. After Ákos Hadházy went over all the borders, because this building and this Chamber have seen nuances over the past year, including starting from childish boobs to completely indescribable yelling, but we may not be able to leave without saying what is happening now. Perhaps, in order to make this understandable, I would like to say that in the Hungarian Parliament it is not in the first place that we should respect the representatives, and certainly not their parties, but the ethos of popular representation itself, our history, our traditions and the majority of us who have sat in the same Chamber. To look at last week's situation a little bit, it is not permissible in one European country, not only that it is alien to the European culture that Ákos Hadházy has done, but in European parliaments, even in the European Parliament, including the practice of national parliaments and the European Parliament, none of the rules would tolerate it. Let us look at how the European Parliament is in such a situation. Just on 31 January this year, an amendment to the Code of Conduct, which says that Members should refrain from inappropriate behaviour, such as posters, in the Chamber, and should also refrain from offensive language and insults. The European Parliament says that the behaviour of Members should be characterised by mutual respect, that the dignity of the European Parliament should be preserved, and that the work of Members should not prevent the smooth work of Parliament. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] What if we were in Belgium? That's part of it, Congressman Bana, what you're doing. What if we were in Belgium? The Member concerned can explain his disorderly conduct in ten minutes, I think, to you, as Congressman Ákos Hadházy stands here and explains his behaviour, this will not happen, and he will have to show remorse, either in writing or verbally regret his disorienting behaviour in Belgium. But let's see what happens in France. All demonstrations and riots in the French Parliament are prohibited, and Members who have shown such behaviour are again suspended, there is a long list of their rights, but for example, if they provoked the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister or members of the government, there are rules similar to obscene terms. Obviously, Mr. Ákos Hadházy will not do this, none of the Western European rules. I note here that even in Albania and Romania, there is an exclusion or a serious penalty for all the types of disorder that Ákos Hadházy has committed. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] All that Mr. Ákos Hadházy has done, I can say that he does not go to the building of the Hungarian Parliament. Which is why we have two things to do. One of them is to tighten up the sections on disciplinary rules, which is also in your interest. The other is that Ákos Hadházy should leave the Hungarian Parliament. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right! Good.]] First of all, he hasn't taken part in the job since he came in once, and then he's produced what you've seen. I think that it goes beyond any political debate, that we can at least set the framework for the political debate in such a way that there is some consensus in it. So I have two things to ask of you. One is to try to relate politically to the act of Ákos Hadházy, to reject it, to distance themselves from it, and to support the tightening of the disciplinary rules of the parliamentary law, since in the long term what Ákos Hadházy wanted to introduce as a practice is not permissible. [[Interviews from Fidesz: Good.]] Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-28-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-10-28-23	Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, We have seen many things, we have heard many things here, within the walls of the house, but Ákos Hadházy's production last week is indeed a new negative record of verbal aggression. No member of any party dared to strike such a tone here in Parliament. It's a cliché to say that it's unprecedented since the change of regime, but it really is. The fact that obsceneness was not a result of a sudden upheaval, but that Ákos Hadházy was even prepared for it is likely that he took quite a bit of time to prepare this inscription. [[12.00]] The attitude you've demonstrated is both shameful and pathetic. It wasn't the first time left actors met with aggression. Allow me to give you a few examples. In December of last year, opposition representatives tried to prevent decision-making here: they blocked the lead president, beeped, loudspeaked. The Jobbik was involved in the bad way. One of the small-scale leaders even sat in the Prime Minister's chair [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: To me, the successor party of the Liberal International should not be denouncing.]] And he was trying to stop him from voting, and the problem is that they represented this disorganized policy outside the House. Editors were insulted in an unfair way, they broke into television, they harassed crews, inter alia, on the grounds that they were representatives. Congresswoman Bangón's Facebook live video was very good at telling us about the facade of the whole movement. And there's not going to be any fallout from the next generation. Márton Gulyás meditated on labor camps for pro-government politicians, Bence Tordai said that he could not condemn it if symbolic buildings were affected, and the argument that if the government could not be removed by peaceful, democratic means, then there would be some kind of revolution. [[Tibor Bana: That's what you said! Orbán said that!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Allow me to remind you that Ákos Hadházy was able to talk even in 2017 about the fact that if there was no change of government in 2018, only the revolution would come. Well, his little revolution is now on the side of the road. It's not okay! Dear House, We could do the whole thing by saying we're sorry about how much of a blanket is Ákos Hadházy's style. But this issue is not only about style, but also about the responsibility of elected representatives, because they rightly expect the Members working here to set an example in preparation, but also in tone and style, and if the opposition gives a negative example, it can have serious consequences. Because what do you say there in opposition? [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Why did you wait 15 minutes to send people in? You watched the Prime Minister for 15 minutes!]] If you can talk to Members of Parliament like that [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I assume that if I could, all Hungarian citizens would be encouraged to do so. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: You watched the board for 15 minutes!]] It's a dead end. Don't do it. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] We also know this recipe used in many places abroad: in the absence of support and meaningful thought, they are trying to encourage violent acts in case the governing parties lose their patience. We will not do you this favor, this opposition strategy is too transparent. Instead, the government will focus on the work it has been entrusted with, and will continue to do so as long as the electorate authorizes it. Dear House, Congressman Torda is no longer here, but a few minutes ago he spoke of the republic, the idea of the Republic. That could mean a lot, by the way. For our part, we would like to ask that normal behavior be included. [[Intruder from Fidesz: That's right!]] Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-28-24	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda, Mr Ander Balázs, Jobbik Group asked for a speech:. As long as the elite have a very expensive Avalon private school or International School of Debrecen, a sheep school for the people who were thrown into the right bed? " with the title " You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-10-28-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, There are lies and there are miracles. It is also a lie in the success propaganda, in the slums of the State Secretary, in the lozunges and in the already well-known cynical fetishes, which you can produce in the context of brawling public education and vocational training. But there are miracles. You like to refer to Klebelsberg, it is not by accident that you named your institution-support centre in 2012 about our truly legendary Minister of Public Education between 1922 and 1931. After all, Klebelsberg was able to do a real miracle at the time, because a losing world war, the self-destructive loss of degenerate Mihály Károlyi, the devastating proletarian dictatorship of the Bolshevik scum of Kun Béla, the Romanian occupation of locusts, which represents an amazing ravage and an unjust attempt to murder to the core, after Trianon, Klebelsberg knew that only a multitude of educated people could rise for our country. Therefore, a high percentage of the country's income was spent on education by far ahead of the European average, as opposed to the current GDP-to-GDP ratio of around 5 per cent, which results not even in vegetation but in a shocking decline. According to the latest European Commission education and training observers, the public education balance over the last nine years has been a disgrace. While the proportion of our underachieving 15-year-olds in 2009 did not exceed the EU average in both reading, mathematics and science, these indicators fell brutally by 2018, far below the EU average. Just to be precise, and to be alarmed, who still has some sense of responsibility for the future, i.e. from 17.6% to 27.5 percent in reading, from 22.3 percent in mathematics to 28 percent in the field of mathematics, and from 14.1 percent in the case of science to 26 percent in the case of underachieving 15-year-olds. Practically a quarter of a generation of functional illiterate, perfect subjects for every one-bit propaganda, considered brainwashing. Obviously, the innate cognitive abilities of Hungarian students did not decline under the back of the frog, nor did the 150,000 teachers who worked in public education become lazy, not caring for their students, no use at work. No, it's your system's crime now. You can't have the past eight years, it's the bitter harvest of your past nine years. Moreover, while the EU average has improved, the proportion of early school drop-outs in Hungary, i.e. those who leave school without a degree or profession, is entering the labour market, so theirs has gotten much worse. Among gypsy youths, we can find quite horrific, almost two-thirds data. But maybe that's what it takes for two thirds of you to be a vulnerable, easy-to-eat society. I may have some parallel with the fact that, at the beginning of the millennium, this was the region's competitiveness leader, but our country has now gone from the V4, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland and the 28 EU Member States, according to the World Economic Forum survey, we are now only the fourth, to shame only from behind. How we will reach Austria by 2030 and be one of the five most livable European countries is a mystery - in any case, he could have used a strong drug, who was demoting it, in any case, I wish that he was right. Just as the Nersevik elite is not interested in health problems, because they can go to private hospitals, they also ignore the problems of increasingly hopeless public education. No, because their children have private schools that charge 3-4 million forints a year. Robotting the assembly line, cleaning the pool, providing erotic service on yachts will be good for the simple child of the people, you may think, for that you do not need competitive knowledge. This is maid world 2.0, but we don't want any of this. What responsibility do you feel, Secretary of State, in the amazing deterioration of the public education indicators listed? What do you want to do to curb the trend? And the bonus question is: when will the wages of the educator society where the salary of starting teachers, calculated at purchasing power parities, are also the fourth among the OECD states, but unfortunately also from behind, and where, unlike your lying statistics, they teach not 608 hours, but the much more domestic teachers work? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2019-10-28-26	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-10-28-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, What Jobbik has not voted for Hungarian education, for Hungarian students, for Hungarian teachers, since it has been here in Parliament, is HUF 645 billion. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Why didn't you vote for him?]] We spend more than HUF 645 billion in next year's budget on more than 1.1 million students, nearly 170 thousand school workers, honourable Member, and you have not supported any additional resources. [[12.10]] But they also did not support the fact that the government made the textbooks free of charge for Hungarian families step by step. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] So that they don't decide to choose a cheaper or more expensive textbook based on price...
u2019-10-28-28	Madam Congresswoman, excuse me, Secretary of State, I think you have been heard by the Secretary of State, so please do the same. Thank you. [[Dr. László György Lukács: But he's not telling the truth!]]
u2019-10-28-29	...but to get a quality book for students, and not the material factor is the most important thing, but to get everyone good. You mentioned the OECD. Why did you not mention from the OECD, honourable Member, that there was no OECD Member State between 2013 and 17 where teachers' wages increased to a higher degree than in Hungary? Why did you forget that? [[Ander Balázs: We are among the last!]] Why did you forget the OECD list? Or is it that in an average OECD state, because you forgot to mention it in your own OECD Journal, honourable Member, that in an average OECD State, a teacher has 13 students? In 2010 there will be 11 and a half students in Hungary, and now about 10 and a half students. So it's a... [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks, Ander Balázs interrupts.]] We all know, we all know that in Hungary, unfortunately, the population in the current school generation is falling year after year, but the number of teachers has increased in recent years, so there is more opportunity for a teacher to deal with a student, more attention is given to a student on average in Hungary than in an OECD country. The way you talk about Hungarian teachers, the way Hungarian teachers raise serfs in Hungarian schools, nearly 170,000 [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You are a hypocrite! It's really embarrassing in a parliament.]] Your Honour, are you serious about this? ! So really, do you really think that 170,000 people go there, and like a bad American movie in a central control room, they press a button, and then all 170,000 people start teaching serfs? Do you really think so? Because it might sound good at a better-looking residential forum where we saw your quotes when you held a better-looking public forum, that your own employees were almost more than interested, in the recordings. So it may sound good there, and it may sound good in such a forum to tell its own employees that the Hungarian public education system is raising serfs. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Answer the question]] But if that were the case, why do Hungarian students now appear at Cambridge admissions with better results than the students in Singapore, but with better results than the English students? 'Cause they've had podium seats in the last few years, but last time they got their first place. And from robotics to science, why do many other, completely innovative, innovative competitions bring the first prizes in order? [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: It is not because of you!]] You have taken over this liberal text, that the Hungarian student is always the worst and the Hungarian performance is the worst, because everything that is terrible is happening in Hungary and in all other countries, in all OECD countries, you believe that better is happening. Why do you also refuse to notice, honourable Member, when Hungary precedes other OECD states? About, say, a wage increase. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel laughs.]] Of course, obviously, I think everyone knows that people in Luxembourg are obviously looking better than in Hungary. But if the Hungarian people's wages finally rise more than Luxembourg's, and the Hungarian teacher's wages rise more than they usually do in the other OECD countries, we will finally begin to go in the right direction, because of this HUF 645 billion, which is a surplus in the next year's budget compared to 2010, you have forgotten to say, honourable Member, how much the surplus is spent on teacher's wages each year. [[Zsolt Gréczy: 2002...]] HUF 355 billion in surplus. This is what we can give more in teacher's wages than our ancestors, who had the nerve to take a month's wages from teachers. Not that they stopped the rate of wage increase, but took a month's wages from Hungarian teachers. That's okay with you, and you didn't say a bad word, because you're going to want to get into the next parliament next to Ferenc Gyurcsány's skirt, which is why taking a month's teacher's salary has brought good results, according to you. 'Cause what you've been saying is that our results have improved until 2010. Then it was very good when Ferenc Gyurcsány took a month's wages; after we started the 50 percent wage increase, you said it was wrong. More attention to a student now is bad. The fact that we have built WiFi access in all schools above 80 percent or 90 percent is that 69 investments in various constructions have now been completed with a school, a school building, an expansion of the gym, and you do not mention them. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Long live the party!]] The fact that schools have been upgraded from 21 billion to 20 billion does not say that there are 2584 sites of broadband internet in convergence schools, it does not say that in 2018 we distributed 45 thousand laptops, 24 thousand tablets and 3 thousand interactive displays in schools in order to provide students with the latest knowledge on state-of-the-art devices. He always forgets to tell me about these things. He only feeds Ferenc Gyurcsány. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Brenner Koloman: Long live Rakosi, long live the party!]]
u2019-10-28-30	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Speaking after today's agenda, MEP Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz; Serbian minority advocate Alexov Lyubomir; Member Brenner Koloman, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group; Representative Tünde Szabó, Fidesz Group; Member László Hajdu, DK; Member Péter Ungár, LMP. Dear Parliament, I declare that today, Member Tamás Pintér, Jobbik, informed the President of the Parliament that he had resigned his seat. I declare that the number of Members of Parliament is currently 197. Dear Parliament, Now, at 12:15 p.m., we're gonna start discussing questions and immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Ádám Steinmetz, a representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Do you not think that the level of TAO support should be linked primarily to the effectiveness of the work that has been carried out? It's an address. The floor belongs to Congressman Adam Steinmetz.
u2019-10-28-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Luiz Felipe Ventura dos Santos, Bohdan Melnik, Anton Kravchenko, Cornel Alexandru Ene, Rados Protic, Roman Karasiuk, Lucas, Sassá, Stavros Tsoukalas, Gheorghe Grozav and Mark Kovácsréti. No, I didn't list Dinamo Kiev-Dinamo Bucharest's mixed selections, but the starting eleven of Kisvárda's football players entering the field on 14 September 2019. In the match lost 2:1 against the extremely massive Mezőkövesd, there was only one Hungarian player in Hungary in addition to 10 foreigners. Ladies and gentlemen, This is interesting because, by the way, Márk Kovácsréti was not raised in Kisvárda's supply, but in capital associations. I am bringing this matter to this House because between 2015 and 2018 pay attention now. Forints 2166 million received public money in the form of tao support for football players in Kisvárda, mainly for training and replacement development. Dear Secretary of State, Hungarian people are now outraged by the situation, so I have to ask you what kind of professional work is going on in Kisvárda, where billions of forints of public money failed to teach Hungarian children to play football. Do you not think that Tao subsidies should be linked primarily to effective replacement training? And, Madam Secretary of State, what is the social interest in the Fidesz government's support for sports organisations with a billion-dollar scale for years in favour of vulnerable foreigners rather than talented Hungarian children? We're waiting for your professional response. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-10-28-32	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Tünde Szabó answers the question. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2019-10-28-33	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to live with your sports answer, and first of all to say that everyone knows that the Tao is not football, and football is not equal to the Kisvárda-Mezőkövesd match, and we are well aware that no program can be implemented within the Taós program with the approval of the sports fraternity. When we introduced the tax relief system for visual team sports in 2011, our aim was to help and to strengthen the training of replacements, thereby dynamically starting sports activities, the quality of sport services and the development of comprehensive sports facilities. Thus, by increasing the participation of young generations in sport, we should broaden the social base of sport, which is our overall priority and task. [[12.20]] For us, the measure of the effectiveness of the Tao system is how we can increase the number of athletes in six visual team sports and what the benefits of the tax relief system are. I am pleased to say that we have achieved significant results in both areas, since the number of certified athletes has more than doubled since 2011 and the number of new and renewed sports facilities has already exceeded 2500. Finally, allow me, honourable Member, to provide information on the sport that is close to you. While in 2011, 4,200 certified athletes were in the water polo sport, today this number is close to 10,000 people, and it is a pleasure for me that all visual team sports can offer similar growth, so we can be sure that with the support of the Tao system, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And thanks to our renewed facility development, a successful generation will grow up to be proud of, as well as you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-28-34	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question: can they be removed from the public area to preserve the city's image in order to avoid pollution? It's an address. Mr Sándor Szabó has the floor.
u2019-10-28-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In the capital, large cities, including Szeged, there is an increasing problem with the storage of vehicles with official markings but temporarily or permanently withdrawn from circulation in public areas. This sounds very nice, it is in Hungarian, we are talking about cars that still have license plates, but their technical validity is over. These cars or motor vehicles, of course, destroy the cityscape, defile the streets, may even cause pollution and, of course, include public parking. Obviously, there is a legitimate complaint from the public that something should be done with these posters and the owners, because these cars, as I said, make the city view very ugly, and the solution could be to remove these cars from public areas. In the absence of a legislative provision, the authority has no possibility of doing so, so the police and the public authorities cannot act. In this regard, I asked the Ministry with a written question on this subject two weeks ago, and I have also received the reply that the police have no competence in this regard, and they do not want an amendment to the FRESZ on this subject, which I do not understand. The reason I don't understand is because the problem is given, and we can see that, by the way, even parking lots are filled by these cars, and from Miskolc to Szeged or even from Debrecen to Pécs, this is a problem without political affiliation. So I would like to put my question to the Ministry, Mr Secretary of State, in a word, in case I get a positive answer. My question remains whether it is justified for these vehicles to disappear from the public area in some way, as they are destroying the city's image, even if they are polluting the environment, and why they do not want to change the CEAS on this subject, so that the authorities have the power to take action on it. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2019-10-28-36	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-10-28-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The CROSS is about the technical condition of the vehicles in circulation and the vehicles involved in the transport, and about the waiting and parking obstacles to traffic. Vehicles waiting on regular parking spaces or in areas not otherwise prohibited from parking are not provided for in the FRSZ, and I believe that this is basically the case. Why a vehicle is not in circulation can have many reasons. For example, it could be withdrawn in the fall and put back into circulation in the spring. Obviously, it is for the municipality to decide whether or not to permit the conditions for storage in public areas in such cases. In the question that you have asked in writing, you state why we do not plan to amend the KRESZ so as to have a legal basis again for public area inspectors, policemen, to remove vehicles with registration but not in circulation in the public area. There was never such a pass from the CSA that would have made this possible, and the police never dealt with the transport of vehicles normally waiting in public areas but not being put into service. Once again, this is an opportunity for local governments. You also raised your written question that while the validity of the technical examination was indicated by a sticker, this problem did not exist. I believe that this is not the case on the one hand, and that, on the other hand, the public area supervision or the municipality can still determine without further ado whether the vehicle is in circulation or not. It can simply question the register and determine the fact that it is in circulation, and from then on, the municipality has the possibility to regulate whether or not it can remain in the public area. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-28-38	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Hajdu, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior:. What is so complicated about cleaning up an illegally laid pile of waste? " with the title " In answering this question, Prime Minister László Palkovics has appointed a Minister for Innovation and Technology with responsibility and competence according to the subject. At the request of Minister Tamás Schanda, the Secretary of State will answer the question. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-10-28-39	Dear Secretary of State, I have addressed this question in writing and orally, and I have received a written reply, and I have to say that in word, of course, they have not helped the solution, they have been meaningless, so I am here again. I walked like a sewage sludge coming from Croatia and Slovenia, and there is no man to stop it, and it is the same here. On the exit section of M3, Section XV. in the district, in my constituency, estimated about 500 million cubic metres of illegal construction waste was extracted from a single construction site in three weeks under cover of the night. In these events that took place two years ago, we have not yet been able to reach a definite administrative, administrative or disaster protection measure, which is why I am going to appeal to you repeatedly to you, in this case, to what reason the government office is unable to take action, or to the environmental authority that is grounded, without a licence, for what reason. So I'm asking the Secretary of State how you run this country if we haven't been able to transport illegal waste to three or four neighbor sites in two years. My second question is: why do we keep a public administration out of the taxes of citizens whose capacity is exceeded by such a task, this particular question? Dear Secretary of State, I look forward to your professional response. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2019-10-28-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-10-28-41	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Until the spring of 2018, you were driving the XV. The district, then when the situation in the district became unmanageable in all respects, sat in Parliament as an elegant solution, and now again he calls on the government in a case related to your mayor's period. As mayor, you would not only have had the opportunity, but it would have been primarily a priority to act properly in accordance with Article XV. Circumstantial damage to the environment. Honourable Congressman, The Ministry of Innovation and Technology considers effective action against illegal landfills as a priority. He received an exhaustive, detailed answer to his previous questions, most recently at the end of this summer. Among the most significant illegal dumpings in that district, which involve several serial numbers, the most significant authority proceedings are pending before the administrative court and, as far as we know, a police investigation is under way. One of the most important principles of waste management and environmental protection is the polluter-pays principle, which requires the implementation of the official procedure. The determining authority shall take action against the cause of the pollution and shall recover from it the costs of eliminating the pollution that have been incurred so far. [[12.30]] Honourable Congressman, You are now raising your word because of the fate of four piles of waste, but you may suspect that this is not the only case of pollution in the country, the violation of the law, unfortunately, there is a duty for the competent authorities to deal with such matters. In all cases, it is necessary to carry out appropriate procedures. First, that the polluter himself takes action, eliminates the damage he has caused, and only in the final case shall public intervention be carried out. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I trust you will help us with our work. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-10-28-42	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, representative of LMP, would like to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade a question:, What is the benefit of the Putin visit to the Hungarian people? It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-10-28-43	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, By the way of the regular Putin visit, I suggest that we consider whether your interest-based and beneficial foreign policy has brought any benefit to the Hungarian people. Apart from Paks II, which is a dead project and tens of billions of Hungarians are lost in it, besides the fact that the Russian party has not been able to present the plans to this day, let's look at the activity of Hungarian companies in Russia. In the autumn of 2013, it was announced in the Hungarian press that the Market Builder Zrt. owned by István Garancsi was announced. starts building a complex of 65 thousand square meters of sports halls and other elements in Lipeck, Russia. The project fell under scandalous circumstances, which I asked you six times, but otherwise they were unable to answer, as on other occasions, of course, the company had access to the eximbank loan. VolDan, which markets settlement bonds, was even housed in Hungarian state-owned real estate in Moscow to make the sale of state bonds more efficient. The Hungarian people saw only a loss of 30 billion in this program, while the companies connected to Antal Rogán also made more than 150 billion forints without tax. The State also failed to respond six times, and there is a government position that the Russian Transmasholding intends to purchase half of Dunakeszi's vehicle repair business, i.e. it can gain substantial or majority influence over the Hungarian member of the consortium, which can transport railway wagons to Egypt; by the way, this happens without competitive competition. Since then, they have been silent about how the business is, of which only Hungarians have profited nothing. Even when I asked you about the conditions under which Hungarian-Russian cooperation in Hungarian-Russian cooperation would result in helicopter assembly in Hungary, what benefits this would bring to the Hungarian national economy. There was also no response to whether Ansat-2RC was also planning to manufacture Russian combat helicopters in Hungary by circumventing the embargo rules supported by the government. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] So I ask you to list Mr State Secretary, which projects [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] So far, they have been implemented specifically, which Hungarian companies have profited from Russian-related businesses.
u2019-10-28-44	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Tamás Menczer, State Secretary, answers the question.
u2019-10-28-45	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear Parliament, Allow me, honourable Member, to begin with a confession in an unusual manner. I am glad, I am relieved in my soul, because I see that you continue to follow the work of foreign affairs with great care, and that you will continue to be an indescribable critic. It's okay, we're ready, I'm ready to continue the parliamentary work here with you, and we're very happy to see it. That, of course, gives the matter some picantria and a little discreet charm, that, of course, during the leaks, you turned out to be a little bit of a national security risk, but that did not deter us from working together in Parliament. [[Márta Demeter: Don't run from the answer! Gergely Harvesto: What's the answer?]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In relation to what you have listed, i.e. I would like to highlight one thing, and this shows the frivolity of the whole, the railway project in Egypt. This is a big project, the production of 1300 railway wagons, the industry is unprecedented here in Hungary. I ask you not to drill the development of industry or the strengthening of Hungarian jobs. As regards Hungarian-Russian relations, I would like to draw your attention to two things. One is gas transport, which is extremely important. About 85 percent of the gas still comes from Russia to Hungary. We can talk about diversification here, but the situation is that the Romanian gas field has not yet started production, the US and Austrian companies have not started production, the Krki LNG terminal in Croatia is far from finished, so we are talking about heating in winter, so Russia is a very important partner in gas transport and will continue to be. [[Márta Demeter: Answer me!]] And with regard to Paks II, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you mentioned that I would ask you to support the Paks II project, because that is the reduction of the rent, the cheap and environmentally friendly [[Intercoms from the lines of MSZP and LMP: Oh!]] It's a guarantee of pure energy. And if the LMP is such a party that put it on its flag, then I ask you to support us in this. [[Márta Demeter: You're keeping quiet about the matters that have been said, aren't you, Secretary of State?]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-10-28-46	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Sándor Burány, representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the President of the National Bank of Hungary a question: When will György Matolcsy leave public life? It's an address. Mr Sándor Burány has the floor.
u2019-10-28-47	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Mr. Vice President, The Hungarian government has already acknowledged that the funds of the central bank fund have not lost their public finances, but are part of the Hungarian public finances. It is true that he did not admit this to the Hungarian electorate, but to the statistical office of the European Union, Eurostat, which does not change the fact. Due to these and other exposed tricks of the government, last year's government debt figures increased by 0.3 percent of GDP. Overall, we are talking about nearly 300 billion forints. We always said we shouldn't falsify the data, because it's gonna be a problem, and it's gonna be a problem. As we have already said in setting up central bank foundations, they cannot spend public money as their own. The Constitutional Court also stated in 2016 that central bank funds did not lose their public finances. It was only this summer that these foundations were finally included in the scope of the Public Aid Transparency Act. And by now, the infertile debate with Eurostat is over, and the government is no longer trying to convince anyone of its absurd position that the funds of the central bank are not public funds. They're public money. They just weren't treated like that. The central bank foundations are involved in scandalous cases. Without the need for completeness, I just mention that in a year and a half more than 500 million forints were paid to New Wave Production Ltd., which also published the Vs.hu portal, and 70 million forints were sent to the author of the book Chess and Poker about Matolcsy. The president's girlfriend found shelter at the foundations. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] to whom he had paid head of department before without a department. [[The president's ringing again.]] We have one question left, Mr President: when will György Matolcsy leave public life? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2019-10-28-48	Thank you. The question had two minutes. Dear Parliament, The question is answered by Mr István Nagy, vice-president of the Hungarian National Bank. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
u2019-10-28-49	Mr President, Honourable Members, Honourable Congressman, The Member's question contains a number of factual errors and untruths. Let me put it this way: it would be good to deal with this as a professional issue, Eurostat's decision, not as a political issue, and if we treat it as a professional issue, let us try to put the facts properly. So the first thing is that in the first part of your question you falsely claim that the change in the statistical classification of the Pallas Athena foundations would have led to an increase in public debt of 0.3 percent of GDP. We should take a closer look at the data. In fact, the different statistical accounts of the foundations did not affect the historical data of the Hungarian government debt at any level. For the public debt, only the classification of the Hungarian Coal Hydrogen Stocking Association in the government sector was affected. Okay? So it's a matter of fact, if you'll look into it. According to the accounts agreed with Eurostat, the consolidated financial assets of the foundations and their daughters will be accounted for in the central bank sector from the end of 13 onwards. The group's non-financial assets and real economic activity are shown by statistics in the central government. The government does not have any management or ownership rights over the assets of the foundation. [[12.40]] The second part of the question refers to the irresponsible use of the assets allocated to the central bank foundations, and the statements made here do not correspond to reality. As the central bank has already reported on several occasions, the foundations are obliged to retain the assets entrusted to them because of the regulation resulting from their form, and they only farm from the return on their investment. In order to ensure the transparency of the functioning of the Foundation, the balance sheet of assets is regularly published. If the Member really were to follow the foundations closely and mention the information about them properly, then he should know about the Pallas Athena Foundations that their assets were increased by HUF 770 million in the third quarter of this year, the total assets now amount to HUF 274.3 billion. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-10-28-50	I thank the Vice-President for his reply. Dear Parliament, Mr László Vigh, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. How does the Government support the modernisation of the conditions of vocational training in Hungary? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2019-10-28-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Following its entry into office, Hungary's Government decided to take as a priority the promotion of domestic innovation and the improvement of the country's competitiveness. The results of these objectives are visible across the country. The centre of my constituency, Zalaegerszeg, has been added to the map of domestic economic development thanks to the government's policy to promote innovation and stimulate investment. Today, as a result of the complex development of the Zalai region, the number of job seekers in the city has fallen below 2.5 percent, and the number of jobs has increased by another four thousand in the last five years. I would like to point out that the county seat in Zalai is a reliable partner of all efforts to enhance Hungary's competitiveness. For example, there is cooperation between the Innovation and Knowledge Centre opened in the city and the Budapest University of Economics, which enables the University to further increase its digital ambitions and strengthen its practice-oriented training supply. I think it is important to stress that the environment of the first dual vocational training centre opened in the city and with modern infrastructure in Hungary provides high quality help for young people to gain as much experience as possible and to enjoy the profession they choose. Thanks to the government's support, local economic operators will be able to successfully implement dual training in cooperation with the municipality. It remains important for the Fidesz and KDNP factions that young people in vocational training continue to receive high-quality practical training in addition to theoretical knowledge in their studies. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In view of the above, I ask the Secretary of State: how does the government support modernising the conditions of vocational training in Hungary? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-28-52	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-10-28-53	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In order to preserve the outstanding performance of the Hungarian economy, vocational training must be adapted to the needs of the economy, therefore Vocational Training 4.0 has been developed together with the market participants for the Austrian model, as our aim is to ensure that highly skilled young people who love and respect their profession enter the labour market and strengthen the economic role of Hungarian companies with their knowledge. The well done professional work provides a stable and predictable livelihood and contributes to the further strengthening of Hungary's economy. The measures set out in the strategy are designed to provide students in vocational education and training with a competitive knowledge base in an attractive training environment equipped with modern tools and modern technology. The measures will provide an opportunity to pay off old debts in the field of vocational training, including the possibility of creating attractive professional conditions and the acquisition of modern tools. We have renewed, made the National Training Note more transparent, which is the first result of rethinking the vocational training system and is one of the foundations of the Industry 4.0 strategy. Like the sample in Zalaegerszeg, we support the creation of additional dual training centres using its experience, for example in materials sciences, the chemical industry or the wood industry, with the aim of developing active corporate links in vocational training centres and strengthening the involvement of SMEs in practical training. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Fidesz-KDNP has restored the integrity of vocational training, and we are working to ensure that all young people have the learning and training opportunities best suited to their training and skills. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-28-54	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Csaba Gyüre, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Finance:. Why Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County is the driving force in Hungary in the field of actions? Why don't we catch up, catch up to the national average? It's an address. Congressman Csaba Gyüre has the floor.
u2019-10-28-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, According to KSH, average incomes in Hungary have increased by more than 10 percent in the last year. The average gross income in Hungary in the first half of 2019 was HUF 359 464, all in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county total gross HUF 246 341. Wages are far from the lowest in the country. It is 113 thousand forints lower than the national average, but it is more than 200 thousand forints less than in Budapest, where it is currently a gross 450 thousand forints. 133 thousand forints less than Győr-Moson-Sopron County, 111,000 less than Komárom-Esztergom County. But if you look at the salaries of the neighbouring counties, the situation of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county is tragic, as it is 293,000 in Hajdú-Bihar county, or 47 thousand forints more than in our county, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, 281,000 forints, 35 thousand forints more than in the county. We can conclude that there's a huge break from the rest of the country, but even from the neighbouring counties. It's an addition to the fact that in the countryside, wages are the lowest in the country. So it follows that year after year, our catch-up will continue to increase. Workplaces are mainly in the public work system, so wage growth is not expected in the near future. This undermines the chances of the county's population remaining stable, keeping young people. It is no coincidence that the greatest emigration from here is abroad and to the western part of the country and to the capital. I ask the Honourable Secretary of State what the government intends to do to catch up with Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County. Why don't you take substantial steps to ensure that the income of the county's population is at least closer to the national average? Why is a man from northeast Hungary worth almost half as much income as a capital city? Is it expected to improve our county's income conditions? I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-10-28-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Sándor Bodó. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-10-28-57	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Fellow Members! The Government of Hungary is committed to the development of the countryside, and its organisational framework and form is defined in the national development and territorial development concept adopted in 2014. I would really like to suggest that to the Member, with all my heart, that he knows that if he does not, he should be absorbed, because the basic directions can be defined in this. It is also necessary to see that the government has established free business zones from domestic sources, and is also developing infrastructure in that county, which is in any case a prerequisite for the recovery of the economy. It can be seen that GDP per capita has, by the way, increased above the national average compared to 2010, so the main direction is definitely given. It is also a fact that the level of unemployment has fallen by half compared to 2010, and the number of people employed by the public is steadily falling, Mr President, this is evidenced by concrete figures. There is a slight confusion in the definition of average earnings and average income, but since 2014 there has been a 47 percent increase in average earnings in the county and 64 percent increase in average earnings in 2010. These, of course, do not comfort those who earn less than the national average, but obviously you know that in the case of wages, supply and demand is an important factor. The Government of Hungary is therefore committed to the development of the countryside, and obviously Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county cannot miss out on this. By the way, I've had the opportunity to visit your county several times in the previous period, and there are visible improvements. These investments will obviously help to increase wages, as otherwise fewer and fewer skilled workers are available. Thank you for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[12.50]]
u2019-10-28-58	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Innovation and Technology: passenger transport by rail of the century? It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-10-28-59	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Rail road users and rail workers are increasingly demanding that the quality of service of the MÁV be significantly improved. The unpredictable and inaccurate operation of the MÁV makes the everyday life of tens of thousands of our countrymen who go to work and school difficult. If the trains are late, the workers will be late for work and the students will be late for school. This situation is not good for anyone. In addition to almost permanent delays, the quality of passenger trains leaves much to be desired. In many cases complaints are heard from rail users that they do not have the 21st century. The conditions of the 100th century transport on railway lines. Where the seats are dirty, dirty, where bed bugs are installed in the seats, where the air conditioning equipment is not working, where even the window can not be pulled down in the summer heat, where the passenger information equipment is not working or only partially, where the ticket machines are not working, where the ticket monitors are unable to follow the schedule changes. And there is one thing, Mr. Secretary, that all comes together. Anyone who travels by MÁV, travels by train, knows very well that during the summer, there were unblessed conditions, any line we looked at, and at that time we have not talked about the fact that in most cases so many people travel on trains, suburban lines, that we can basically say that passengers like herring are in cars. Secretary of State, when we talk about Article XXI I'm supposed to be testifying about the situation in the century, so let me protect the workers a little bit right now. When we ask for information as passengers about what is happening at the MÁV, these people are in the most unpleasant situation, they cannot give us information, because at MÁV they don't even look at these workers, ticketers, to inform them why, say, a train doesn't start, why it's 20 minutes or hours late, why it doesn't drive more railway cars. You don't even look at your employees. When will these conditions improve, Mr. Secretary? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2019-10-28-60	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-10-28-61	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The fact is that you left the national railway company in a miserable state in 2010. During their government, the company was put on the brink of bankruptcy, putting tens of thousands of railroad families in jeopardy. After that, we are surprised to hear your speech. They didn't develop anything, they closed railway lines and managed to build up 300 billion forints of debt. The government, on the other hand, is determined to ensure that public transport services are at the highest possible level so that Community transport offers a truly competitive alternative to individual transport. During our period of governance, significant investments have been made and are ongoing to improve rail transport, especially in the suburban area of Budapest. New trains are on more and more lines, refurbishing the tracks and stations is ongoing, and the total value of the upgrades is about HUF 1700 billion. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] MÁV Zrt. pay particular attention to the full deployment of station and station passenger information. MÁV Start Zrt. requires dynamic on-board passenger information systems at any time when new vehicles are purchased. Accordingly, the second generation IC and IC + wagons already have a dynamic passenger information system, so the KISS floor trains will arrive and the FLIRT trains will also be equipped. Climateisation is essential for all new vehicles. The development of ticket machines is also ongoing, one of the aims of their installation is to ensure the purchase of station tickets even when the cash registers are closed. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-28-62	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Welcome, fellow Members. We'll get back to work. Congressman László Varju, representative of DK, would you like to ask the Prime Minister a question, 'Do you now withdraw?' It's an address. By answering this question, the Prime Minister appointed Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás will answer the question. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-10-28-63	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. It's not the first time you've met my question, but it's a new one. On 13 October, the citizens of Újpest gave a sharp answer that you are unwilling to deal with the restoration and operation of the hospital in Újpest, and with the provision of health care for the Újpest people. You were practically excluded from the leadership by voting for the opposition and are expected to be a Newpesten hospital again. I've told you many times the history of the Árpád Hospital within these walls. But I must remind you that you closed a restored hospital in 2010. It didn't have to be built, it didn't have to be renewed, there was a hospital there, but you closed it in 2012. A newly renovated hospital to care for the Újpestians. If you're in a Újpest accident today, you'll have to go to the Honvéd Hospital in the next district, where there's already an overload. And then on the way, you claimed that from the building that used to be a hospital, you were building a homeless shelter for people who are sick, elderly, unable to self-care, and eventually become a workers' hostel from the hospital. You have even taken a government decision on this. Once again, with all due respect, please, because I am not going any further than I am to withdraw that government decision, to support the demands and requests of the Newpest people: let there be a hospital in Newpest! I respectfully ask the Secretary of State when to withdraw the government decision after which it will be possible to have a hospital again in Newpesten. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-10-28-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be given by Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-10-28-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The government's objective is clear, we want to create decisions, solutions, improvements that are in the interests of the people that people agree with. We stick to our position that in no city, in any district, any development should be created that the settlement, the elected leaders of the district disagree with. By the way, in recent years, the Government and the Ministry of Interior have established a fair relationship with local governments, district authorities, and we aim to ensure that this is the case in the near future and in the future. There's no part in this, by the way, of party sympathy or party colors. I think that the municipal debt transfer is a very good example of this, in which Újpest also received more than HUF 5 billion, and in recent years they have received state aid and have made improvements together with the state. So we will also consult with the new district government, we are curious about their opinion. In the hospital case, I think that there have been a lot of debates here, and you have also argued with the Secretary of State of the EMMI, which made it clear to you that until 2010, you have taken about 16,000 active beds from the Hungarian patients, and about 6,000 medical workers have been laid off. Since 2010, we have been trying to replace the money taken from health care in the Gyurcsány era, stabilizing hospitals and developing hospitals throughout the country. And in the area you're concerned, our goal is to develop settlements, to protect the texture of the building. I'll tell you again, this is what we're talking to the district council about. We want a solution that will ensure the preservation of the structure of the building and help to renew the building and its surroundings. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-28-66	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, would you like to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Bus or aircraft? It's an address. By answering this question, the Prime Minister has appointed a Minister without a portfolio responsible for managing the national assets of Bartfai-Mager-Mager. At the request of the Minister, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, will answer the question. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[13.00]]
u2019-10-28-67	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, We talked about Győr for a lot of reasons about the municipal campaign. I do not want to go into this part of the Christian values, but I would just like to point out that the money that went out of Győr through Zsolt Borkai is missing in the city, because, at the request of a local government representative in Győr, the data was issued that 680 scheduled buses were left out only in September. People can't take their children to school, kindergarten, they can't go to work because there's such a terrible lack of bus drivers in Győr that they simply can't operate urban public transport. This is a serious problem, a problem that could be solved with money, by increasing the pay of bus drivers, and this money instead of going to the bus drivers of Győr and providing services to the citizens of Győr to take their children to school and go to work, we know exactly where it went: Audi, land, and I will not tell you the rest because of my civic upbringing. The fact is that Zsolt Borkai is no longer a member of Fidesz is not an answer. We know that if the Prime Minister had a political will to stop Zsolt Borkai from being Mayor of Győr, this would have happened. The fact is that the Fidesz board can disband the municipal body of a city with county rights in Győr; the fact is that new elections could be opened; or the fact is that Zsolt Borkai's colleagues could call Zsolt Borkai and convince him to resign. It is clear that Viktor Orbán did not let go of Zsolt Borkai's hand, but he let go of the hands of the people of Győr; it can also be seen that Győr does not receive the resources that he should receive in order to say that there are no 680 buses left out in that city in a month. I have three questions for the Secretary of State: what will the government do specifically to ensure that the bus situation in Győr is resolved? What's your plan to solve the driver's shortage? When will Zsolt Borkai resign?
u2019-10-28-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, the answer to Mr János Fónagy's question is Mr Secretary of State. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-10-28-69	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The mayor of Győr's job is for the Győr. For his part, Fidesz took care of it. [[Moraj, intervention from the opposition.]] : our fellow countryman is no longer a member of Fidesz. But the idea of a bus problem is entirely justified. I note here that this is not a question of the city budget of Győr, but of the Volánbusz. As successor to the previously Northwest Hungarian Transport Centre, Volánbusz pays particular attention to its obligations under the public service contract with the city, with particular attention to the fact that the problem you have raised is real. Currently there are 103 local buses in Győr, of which 52 have wrists and 51 solo buses. These are Hungarian-made buses, their average age varies, but their technical condition is appropriate on the basis of the continuous review. What is causing the problem is indeed the lack of bus drivers. The Volánbusz immediately took action when the problem became acute, and as of 2 November, drivers transferred from several parts of the country will take part in urban transport. Hopefully, this will restore the usual transport system in a few days. At present, some 5-10 bus drivers from other counties are helping the job. In order to ensure an adequate number of employees, the company will significantly increase recruitment activity and start with increased numbers in the region. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] bus driving training. I would like to emphasise that this is not only a question of wages, but also an issue of an effective existing suitable workforce. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-28-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade a question:. The Government will also change its position on the Turkish invasion, as Fidesz has done? It's an address. Secretary Tamás Menczer will answer you. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2019-10-28-71	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, It seems that there has been a serious disturbance in Fidesz's propaganda machine in relation to the Turkish invasion: until a week ago, the Prime Minister vetoed the other EU Member States to condemn the Turkish operation moving to Syria, and in several places he said why Hungary's interest in the Turkish offensive was strongly condemned by the Fidesz MEPs, and Turkey was called upon to end this. To quote the words of the Secretary of State, they played sport in the criticism of Erdoğan. So it is not enough that the Prime Minister put his allies Salvini from Italy, Babiš from the Czech Republic, in a great, humanist, citation mark, did not agree with him on this issue either, it seems that the representatives of Fidesz did not agree. Now we let them explain to us the stupidity of how to launch the offensive, for the world has never seen a war make fewer refugees. Dear Secretary of State, A war always makes more refugees. It is interesting, however, because the MEPs of Fidesz justified their decision:. On this important issue, the Group of the European People's Party asked for a united position, so the members of the Hungarian delegation from the People's Party voted together with the People's Party. It is not clear that you are now suspended or suspended from the People's Party. I would, however, like to know what the votes of their MEPs will then be classified as. Dear Secretary of State, So the Fidesz MEPs, as you say, do not defend the interests of Hungary in Brussels? Will the government continue to oppose the will of the European Community or amend its position on the Turkish offensive? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2019-10-28-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, Mr President, Parliamentary Secretary Tamás Menczer will answer your question. Here you go.
u2019-10-28-73	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I had the opportunity to speak on this subject longer than before the agenda. His question also concerned the EP vote and the fact that there is a conflict between the opinion of the Fidesz MEPs and the position of the Hungarian Government on foreign affairs. I am not a spokesperson for Fidesz MEPs, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I do not. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] This is also known from the fact that they themselves issued a communication, and if you followed this act in the European Parliament so carefully, you must also have seen that the Fidesz MEPs, in my memory, specifically Tamás Deutsch, issued a communication on this, which was about what the Hungarian Government was saying in connection with the events in Syria. [[Zoltán Balczó: The vote is the act.]] And it is indeed as you say, although this is certainly no longer the government's table, Fidesz is a member of the People's Party, and a request has been made here, as far as I know, by MEPs, but they are responsible. I would like to draw attention once again to the fact that, while many in Europe are really playing sport by criticizing President Erdoğan, the European external borders remain defenceless. Europe cannot defend itself, so it is only up to the Turkish President, whether he is sympathetic or not, whether he likes his policy or not, whether he is launching hundreds of thousands and millions towards Europe or not. I believe that, at least on the basis of common sense, the continuing criticism of the man on whom European security is, by the way, highly dependent is questionable. We do not want hundreds of thousands of people to be back at the Hungarian border in no time, at the Hungarian fence, as happened in 2015. And another thought: otherwise, those who do not make such a competition for publishing communications, but do actually have an impact on geopolitics, such as the Americans, the Russians and the Turks, as far as I can see, have already taken a number of steps to resolve the situation. Let's hope this goes well. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-28-74	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gábor Varga, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of Finance: what further TOP developments are expected in Fejér County? It's an address. I would like to inform the Member that Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, will answer his question. There you go. You have the floor. [[Gergely Arató: We are interested in Dunaújváros!]] [[13.10]]
u2019-10-28-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In recent decades, territoriality in Europe has grown more and more strongly in the planning of different policies. The operational programme for territorial and urban development is the regional operational programme of the 2014-2020 programming period with the largest funding envelope, which supports developments in the country's territory outside Budapest and Pest county. The programme's main objective is to find and strengthen development elements for all counties, regions and settlements so that their potential, resources can be developed and activated. A number of municipalities in Fejér County received aid under the programme. Among other things, I would like to point out that in my constituency, in Csís settlement, there was a health home in the framework of the greenfield project. A new medical office, protective service and other multifunctional rooms were also available in the building, built with a HUF 66.1 million grant. In the basic village, the refurbished social institution's building has been cut in the last few weeks, with 52.2 million HUF support from the Municipality of Fejér County. A local producer market was also built on the basis of a TOP tender. In order to achieve these objectives, it is important to provide resources and support for local authorities' economic development and related urban and local development concepts. That is why, Mr Secretary of State, I am asking what further TOP developments are expected in Fejér County. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much.
u2019-10-28-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go.
u2019-10-28-77	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In the 2014-2020 programming period, the Operational Programme for Territorial and Municipal Development, TOP, provides resources primarily for the development of municipalities, as you have said. The priority is to strengthen the local economy, increase local employment and support reindustrialisation. Each call supports the counties, the county-righted cities' own development ideas, the 18 counties and the 22 county-righted cities can also obtain a pre-defined amount of support on the basis of their own programmes. A total of HUF 41.6 billion is available for Fejér county, of which 285 projects have already received funding worth HUF 37.7 billion. As a result of the development in Fejér County in the TOP, 77 kilometers of lower roads will be upgraded, 59 kilometers of cycling routes will be built in 16 settlements, and nearly 38 kilometers of drainage system will make the settlements safer against water at 9 locations. 147 primary care services are renewed in some 30 settlements, including the renewal of GPs, dental clinics and the development of protective services. In two settlements, 93 hectares of industrial land are renewed and developed. More than 2,000 people can participate in labour market return programmes in the county. In addition, some 600 new cradle seats will be created. Through the supported projects, significant job creation, family-friendly, employment-friendly institutions, the development of public services and tourism development will take place in the settlement. We wish the county good luck with its implementation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-28-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: It's an address. Congressman, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will answer you. You have the floor, please.
u2019-10-28-79	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, One of the biggest health failures of the last decade has been the failure to stop the debt of hospitals from month to month. Years ago, the monthly average was 2-3 billion forints, which increased the debt, and by 2019 we reached the point of 5-6 billion forints per month. To give an example: one of the leading institutions belonging to Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County Hetényi Géza Hospital, which owes its suppliers 2 billion HUF with the annual budget of a small town. Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, said, however, that hospitals may face difficult months, because this is the last year when the government subsequently pays off the accumulated debts of hospitals, so in 2020, if there is a debt, if not, the government will not pay the debts of institutions dancing on the brink of bankruptcy. Let's see why a hospital's debt could pile up. The reason for this may be that interventions and benefits are reimbursed at a low rate by the state, i.e. the hospital does not receive as much money as it actually costs him for an examination or surgery. But there is also the technological factor in increasing the prices and demand of machines, devices. Overall, it can be concluded that there is an increase of HUF 50-60 billion in the stock of debts charged to hospitals per year, of which about HUF 40 billion is settled annually at the end of the year. Hospital debt accumulation can result in two results: one is that if the government does not settle them, the care will show a declining, low-quality picture, which the patients will suffer, and the workers too, as they are forced to work with DIY methods; or, for example, hospitals, classes will have to be closed or merged. In view of all this, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State to allow hospitals to go bankrupt in 2020 due to increasing debt to the government. What does the government do to save the institutions from bankruptcy? And will the government shut down hospital departments or hospitals in 2020? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-10-28-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I have indicated, the Member's question is answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2019-10-28-81	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You have listed three reasons why hospitals are in debt: because they are supplying patients more widely, there is an increase in wages for doctors and nurses, and because they provide more modern care with more modern means than in previous years. With this speech, you have rejected your previous 30 speeches, honourable Member, when you have missed them precisely, but you have now admitted that, indeed, in Hungary, more and more modern equipment and, fortunately, higher wages are available to hospital staff. There was a kind of past if you were talking about a hospital failure or a hospital closure that was carried by governments that you and Jobbik wanted to get governments back into power. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Professional response, tough!]] They're the ones who actually shut us down, we developed hospitals. Our predecessors and your allies have shut down hospitals: the children's hospital in Swabhegy, OPNI, Szabolcs Street Hospital, Schöpf-Mere Hospital. At the time, there were indeed hospital closures before 2010. [[Gergely Harvesto: What have you opened? Mr. Secretary, talk to me.]] This has not happened since 2010, honourable Member. In next year's budget, which we adopted this year, we spend HUF 770 billion more on health than in 2010 on the budget adopted by your allies. We are not planning a visitation fee, honourable Member. The joint statement of the visitation fee father was signed by you as Jobbik, together with the Two-Dagger Dog Party, how good it would really be if the details of paying health care were worked out by a medical government. In contrast, we have renovated 91 hospitals, modernized 54 clinics, modernized 107 rescue stations, built 23 completely new clinics, and built 34 completely new rescue stations. [[Gergely Arató: All with EU money!]] I would like to point out that we're not closed. You have the list of things that have been closed, and it is about what we have developed; there are also 16,000 bed closures. I would like to reassure you, honourable Member, that you said no to next year's budget. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] that you did not read that there is 40 billion forints in it to support the restructuring of hospitals; 40 billion forints. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. László György Lu-kács: Yes, but not to pay the debt!]]
u2019-10-28-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask a question to the minister without the wallet responsible for managing the national assets:. Why are they making life more difficult for the Kecskemétians who go to work? It's an address. Mr. Congressman, In answering this question, the Prime Minister appointed the Minister for Innovation and Technology László Palkovics, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Minister Tamás Schanda will answer the question. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[13.20]]
u2019-10-28-83	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I'm gonna go to the D.O.D. on this case more than once. During the summer, I addressed a written question to the Minister and in his reply he wrote the following, and I would like to make it very brief:. The Ministry of Innovation and Technology treats regular rail and road transport as a single unit, from this approach the optimization of cross-sectoral cooperation in the area between Budapest and the South Great Plain. Please, the thing is that 10-15 people miss the bus every day in Kecskemét. It is well known that quite a lot of people commute to Budapest. During today, 17 people could not fit on the bus. I understand that they are trying to treat this whole situation as a unit and I would like to shift a significant part of the passengers to rail transport, but according to the HCSO, the delay of the railway this year was over four years. So they could accumulate a total of delays that would have sufficed for four years. Please, in such a situation, when a bus pass between Kecskemét and Budapest is 64 300 forints, people fall behind every day simply because there is no space, because this route has been coordinated so that in the South Great Plain, from which these buses start, there is a full bus, and there is no chance of anyone getting on the bus in Kecskemét. In addition, seats have to be purchased since the middle of last week. I would like to stress: you have to buy a ticket for 64 300 HUF per month. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State what they intend to do to eliminate the ill-fated conditions on the Kecskemét-Budapest transport route. I look forward to your reply. Thank you very much.
u2019-10-28-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-10-28-85	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As you have said, you have already asked a written question in this regard, to which the Ministry of Innovation and Technology has also answered. I think it's worth reading again. The government has a strong and high priority to ensure and continuously develop high-quality public transport services in the Community. Therefore, the ITM and the government have decided to treat scheduled rail and road transport as one single unit and this approach has been used to optimise cooperation between sub-sectors in transport between Budapest and the South Great Plain. Significant rail developments in the region have led to changes in travel needs and thus to the need to provide a more adapted service. The main element of the amendment is that the flights from the former Orosháza-Szentes and Szarvas-Kunszentmárton to Kecskemét have been connected with the flights from Kecskemét to Budapest. Between Budapest and Kecskemét, trains and buses travel in half an hour. This means better services for the people of Kecskemét, higher quality for the people of Kecskemét. The timetable was preceded by a detailed passenger traffic demand survey, which revealed that in Kecskemét there was about 90 percent passenger change, i.e. passengers travelling between Kecskemét and the capital city could not suffer a substantial disadvantage due to the fact that they do not have to take on a bus from a place. At the same time, the impact of the introduction of the new agenda is constantly monitored by service providers, as particular attention is required in all changes, and this is the case in this case as well. So if there is still a need for correction, then those things will happen. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-10-28-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question:. When Árpád Göncz doesn't matter, or why did Fidesz betray the change of regime? It's an address. I would like to inform the honourable Member that State Secretary Balázs Orbán will answer you. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-10-28-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fidesz is slowly turning out to be the real heir to the last state party. In addition to Fidesen, all opposition parties supported the publicity of the agent files. The Fidesz considers the freedom of the press to be much too great, as Károly Grósz used to view the pluralizing society and the press products that clashed with various opinions. This is how Viktor Orbán became completely ridiculous when he lied in Brussels that they would never try to silence other people's opinions. I'm here to give you the compliments of the closed Népszabadság newspaper. Since the government of Fidesz, all the ideals of the regime change have been lost: public media without party soldiers, Court of Auditors without party soldiers, justice without party soldiers, Constitutional Court without party soldiers. Viktor Orbán, who, standing on the coffin of Imre Nagy, demanded the withdrawal of the Soviet troops, which by then had already been officially decided, has since taken the statue of Imre Nagy from Kossuth tér and the 56th eternal flame from his place. But that is the bottom of everything when László Kövér, a former member of the Institute of MSZMP, explains that it was a waste to elect Árpád Göncz as President of the Republic. One of his heroes, a symbol of the democratic opposition, was not fit to fill his post, according to Fat. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What a democracy! No one can have an opinion!]] I am sure that the voters of Fidesz will not follow either László Kövér or Viktor Orbán on this trip. Nevertheless, I ask Minister or Minister of State whether the legal position of the Orbán government is to relativity and question the work of Árpád Göncz, Viktor Orbán apologizes to the voters of Fidesz for attending the funeral of Árpád Göncz, and what qualities Árpád Göncz did not deserve to be the most popular Hungarian politician in his term of office and beyond. With what announcements does the Orbán government and Fidesz continue to desecrate the memory of the revolution and the struggle for independence in 56 and the regime change? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2019-10-28-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, answers the question. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-10-28-89	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, My colleagues prepared the answer to this question, and then they wrote what I believe is basically the correct answer, that it is not the duty of the executive power, the government, to evaluate and interpret what the legislative authority, or the President of the Parliament, has to say. But if I may, I would do so, because I think it is unacceptable and outrageous what you have done to the idea of freedom in these two minutes. First, let me tell you what László Kövér said when Árpád Göncz died. [[Zsolt Gréczy: That was last week's speech!]] He said during the commemoration held in Parliament, quoting Ference Mádl, that he made the life of the country and all of us more complete and richer forever. Árpád Göncz could be thought of with respect even if we knew only his writing and literary translator work. I grew up on Tolkien translations. But if I may, I would like to read another quote; I quote from Imre Kónya's volume "The Festivities Will Always Be Cancel":. When the host announces that there will be Árpád Göncz, President of the Republic, the answer from the crowd is a whistling concert, which will not be silent even when Göncz comes to the microphone. The experience can be shocking [[Gergely Arató: You started it and your predecessors!]] His former comrades turned on him, crossed my mind. I've been thinking about your taxicab, multiple vetoes of justice, but the latest part in the media war. I watched the president, the crowd protesting against him, I felt some satisfaction, and from the very beginning, the moderate circles were uncritical. And those who dared to criticize have been declared enemies of democracy. Göncz was happy to embrace this narrative. It can't be easy to face a different reality right now. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Congressman, what is the consequence of this? Nothing. It's just that Árpád Göncz is as much a politician as any of us in this room. He is free to be criticized, his public life activity is free to be criticized by everyone. You, when you remove this right from someone, are nothing more than a tortured communist tempo, which I must reject in accordance with the principles of parliamentary democracy. Thank you very much. Shame! [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-10-28-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. What will be the fate of the Mátra Power Plant? It's an address. Honourable Member, I would like to inform you that you will hear the answer from Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go.
u2019-10-28-91	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I need your help. Orbán said that by 2030 90% of Hungarian electricity production will be carbon free. At present, the Mátra Power Plant, which is a coal power plant, which is therefore not considered to be carbon free, provides 15 percent of the electricity. From this I can accomplish the razor-sharp logical idea that the Mátra Power Plant will be closed by 2030 by the government. So first, I'd like to ask you to answer that. Here, I think the answers can be classified as yes and, where appropriate, non-category. [[13.30]] So does the Prime Minister's words before the agenda mean that the Mátra Force will be closed? It's also because Lőrinc Mészáros would like to close it, as I understand it, because this plant is generating losses. It was taken over from the former owner by making a profit at the time, but it is now generating a loss. According to press reports, the government's response is to nationalise the Mátra Force. That would be extremely irresponsible from an environmental point of view. This power plant is an outdated, climate-killing power plant, which makes a major contribution to Hungarian CO2 emissions. Since the Prime Minister, joining the President of the Republic, has suddenly figured out that climate change is not a communist trick, so do not use this communist trick, do not nationalise the Mátra Power; or announce that by 2030, the Prime Minister's words will bring this climate-killing power plant to a close. If this power plant is not closed by 2030, it will be obvious to all of us that what you are talking about is nothing but a series of empty horse-zungs, lorem ipsum. Thank you very much.
u2019-10-28-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda for the answer. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-10-28-93	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The fact is that you continue to make statements based on press reports that are capable of deceiving the Hungarian people. In contrast, the Mátra Power Plant plays a decisive role in the domestic energy supply, and, as you said, it accounts for about 15 percent of Hungarian electricity production, and it also provides a direct livelihood for more than 2 thousand families. This is why it is important that when we talk about the future of the power plant, we should focus on the interests of Hungarian families and the Hungarian economy rather than on the political benefit of the moment, the horse-zung. Our task is to strengthen the security of the country's energy supply and thus to create the basis for the further growth of the Hungarian economy. Our aim is to provide clean, smart and affordable energy for domestic consumers with a flexible and balanced power plant portfolio based on green technologies based on a wide range of domestic energy sources. And if you do not succeed, and we are very confident about that, then the Paks expansion will be completed, and if solar power plants continue to be built in Hungary at the same pace as in recent years, 90 percent of power generation in Hungary could be carbon-free by 2030. That's the goal. In the case of the Mátra Power Plant, the development of an innovative development concept, built on the vision of low greenhouse gas emissions, has also begun in Central and Eastern Europe, which can contribute to government objectives. [[Péter Ungár and Gergely Arató intervene. The president's ringing the bell.]] I trust that the LMP, who believes that it is a political community that defines itself as green, will help the government work along these goals, or at least if it does not do so, will not contribute to the spread of rumors. Congressman, I need your help with this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Interventions in opposition benches.]]
u2019-10-28-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman Brenner Koloman, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. How long does the government have to deal with the career model of the prison inspectors and the security of the penitentiary agencies? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, By answering this question, the Prime Minister appointed Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Secretary of State Károly Kontra will answer your question. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-10-28-95	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, It is in our common national interest, independent of party policy, to secure, professionally guard and to give material and moral respect to the professionals who carry out this task. On the other hand, we see that the Fidesz government is creating chaos in this area, both professionally and existentially. The veterinary horse of this is the institution of the Sopronkőhida penitentiary and prison in my constituency, which I am also emotionally attached to, since my father retired from here. Housing problems, underfunding, acute shortage of staff and unprofessional government measures are the hits faced by some 300 uniformed employees of Sopronkőhida Prison and Prison daily. In addition, the area of Sopronkőhida is largely composed of service apartments, and it was previously said that the widows could stay here in the service apartments, but at the moment they have been transformed into unsolved housing for these colleagues, and in Sopron, I don't have to tell you what rentals we work with. Under these circumstances, it is not surprising that there is an acute shortage of numbers. In 2008, a section consisted of 23-25 people, at the moment about 10 people, and hundreds of tricks are cosmeticating the data here. What concrete proposals are being made to resolve the problems, so I ask Mr Secretary of State with respect; as my colleague, Mr Varga-Damm Andrea, on behalf of Jobbik as a renewed national party, explained in the debate on the amendment of the Law on Penalty Organisations, it is from a professional point of view unacceptable that this shortage of staff should be resolved using armed security guards. So, how long does the government wrestle with the life model of the Bv stock and the security of the prisons? Thank you very much for your reply. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-10-28-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-10-28-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to thank the staff of the prison execution for the service they are performing effectively and successfully. There is order in the field of prison, and the institutions operate safely. We also took a step forward in the field of detention. In Kiskunhalas, the state-of-the-art prison of the country was completed and handed over on 22 February 2019, the transfer of Halas prison is only the beginning of the development, so the expansion of the seats and the modernisation of the prisons continue. What you have said in connection with the housing problems of the prison workers in Sopronkőhida, I would like to give you the following information. In Sopronkőhida, the organization of the prison system provides an apartment at a very favourable price. For example, a 53-square-meter flat of HUF 3551/month, 67-square-metre flat of HUF 7316/month, and an 86-square-metre flat of HUF 9960/month plus overhead costs are provided by the management of the prison execution. Contrary to the question, this can be applied for 10 plus 3 years, so it also provides a long-term solution for the Bv stock and their families. In the management of the prison and prison in Sopronkőhida, there are currently 110 places of service that have been made available to the staff, honourable Member. In addition, housing subsidies operated as an independent element of the law enforcement career are available in the 2019 budget, i.e. HUF 2 billion 815 million, and in the 2020 budget already adopted, HUF 2 billion 815 million is available, so we also provide significant resources for the purchase of private housing. Among other things, the Ministry of Interior is committed to raising wages for professional staff. A technical preparatory work has started in the Ministry which, depending on the government's decision, can contribute to the development of further elements of the career model. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-10-28-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior:. Why this great secrecy around Microsoft? It's an address. By answering this question, honourable Member, the Prime Minister has appointed Minister for Finance Mihály Varga, who is responsible and competent on the subject. At the request of the Minister, Mr András Tállai will answer your question. You have the floor, please.
u2019-10-28-99	Thank you very much. Dear House, As well as the well-known Hungarian public authorities, the National Tax and Customs Office purchased software from Microsoft's domestic subsidiary at two to three times after 2014. You all remember this case: the US authorities imposed a fine of HUF 7.3 billion on Microsoft for violating federal anti-corruption rules. [[13.40]] So on that side, corruption has been proven, but, as usual, corruption usually has two actors, and there is also one who receives the corruption money, and we are interested in this thread, and the rest is left to the Americans. The fact that there is a problem with the acquisition of the NAV proves that I have written to the Ministry of Finance three times with some simple questions, and that I have not been able to get a substantive answer to these questions on either occasion. Therefore, I am going to put them again, and I am excited to see how Mr Secretary of State responds to them orally. Here's my question. Has Sándor Tiborcz, the brother of the Prime Minister's son-in-law, ever dealt with the NAV's IT issues? If so, in what capacity? Is Péter Tiborcz in any relationship with the NAV today? Were you in any position there before? Did you have any decision-making powers in this capacity or position? If so, what did that mean? And did Mr Tiborcz finally deal with the purchase of software licenses for NAV between 2013 and 2015? I look forward to your reply. Thank you very much.
u2019-10-28-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, will answer the question. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-10-28-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I can only repeat what the Prime Minister said in Parliament a week ago: the Hungarian Government has previously and now taken the view that it would like to purchase services or products directly from all software companies, and would not want to include any intermediary third party. At the same time, the problem is that Microsoft, the Americans, insisted and insisted. Microsoft refuses to sell its products directly to anyone, to the Hungarian State, only through intermediaries. This is not a Hungarian problem, it is an American problem, the relevant abuses and regulations also apply to Americans. So the government doesn't need any third contributors, we're ready to get the software without intermediaries if the seller is willing to do so. We're sorry Microsoft won't do that. Therefore, Hungary is issuing public procurements and purchasing these services and products in regular public procurement procedures. If there's an abuse, there's a criminal prosecution. [[Gergely Arató: Sándor Tiborcz Péter!]] Now the Attorney General has decided to prosecute at the request of the Americans. The government is looking forward to this. Please accept my answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Deterioration in opposition benches.]]
u2019-10-28-102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:, How does the government support home care parents? It's an address. I would like to inform the honourable Member that Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer you. You have the floor, please.
u2019-10-28-103	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, The fact is that people who are not caring for their children at home, but who receive other relatives, in most cases their spouses or parents, 58 or 38 thousand forints, still today. In vain, Mr. Secretary, you will tell me what I can tell from my sleep, selfie, snapping, and the rest, this is the case in the ninth year of the Fidesz government. Please report this, the government plans to raise the cost of home care for people who are not their children, so they tend to care for their elderly relatives and parents who live in dementia most of the time. You know as well as I do that the waiting lists are very big in nursing homes. You know very well that most people can't place older relatives with dementia, so there's no alternative, there's no choice but to take care of these people at home. You know very well that 58 and 38 thousand forints do not replace that loss of labour market, this does not replace a Hungarian wage. In addition, you know that the freedom of these people has not been resolved, and more than 12,000 signatures have already been handed over to you by civil society organisations in this regard. He also knows that it is an incredible administrative burden to apply for a home care fee, even if it applies to children, even if older relatives, that even many people can't solve the problem of placing disabled or sick relatives as long as they even submit these papers, and they only receive 38 and 58 thousand forints again. I have one more request: when you say the 5% and 10 percent increases in the answer, you say them in HUF, not in percentage. Thank you very much.
u2019-10-28-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-10-28-105	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We're on a two-stroke roll, and you know it, Your Honour. The amount of the care fee will be increased by 30 percent for everyone in these years, first by 15 and then by 5-5-5%, and next to the home care fee, we have introduced a new category, the children's home care fee, which will increase by 100 thousand forints this year, and by 24 percent next year, it will amount to nearly 124 thousand forints. These are the increases, honourable Member, to which you have referred, for which you have not apologized and apologized, you have only cynically referred back to the period of knocking and the like. Because of what you've done, it's a more serious category. The fact that you didn't have 10 seconds to stop the sirening for 10 seconds, the snorkeling, the yelling, the beeping and the other sounds for 10 seconds, going to your seat as Members of Parliament, pressing the yes button, and supporting us to increase these people's benefits, I think it's rather shameful. They could've lasted at least 10 seconds, they could've beeped from their seats, so they could've even beeped, only press this button. Before and after that day and after that day, you always demanded a big raise. Before a big raise, it is quite a big increase for 100,000 forints and 124 thousand forints next year, and by 2022 it will reach the minimum wage level, and since then it has been said that this increase is not enough. The budget last year amounts to HUF 27 billion, HUF 45 billion this year and HUF 55 billion in next year's budget. Of course, this is not the only care that older people can benefit from, as we have also increased catering resources, we have also expanded village and folklore services, we have also expanded home assistance and signal-based home assistance. While 75,000 people could receive home assistance in 2010, 92,000 now [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and while the care support was 145 thousand forints in 2010, now 210,000 forints. We have tried to expand resources and opportunities in all areas. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-28-106	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman János Bencsik, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-10-28-107	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Proof of school and kindergarten absences in Hungary today forces parents, teachers and doctors to cheat. We all know the situation where a sick child or passing sickness leaves the child at home as a precaution, but the only chance of going to school or kindergarten the next day is if he carries medical papers that he is healthy and can go back to community. In practice, a medical certificate is issued by the general practitioner to practically announce, without a real examination, the parent tells him to issue the paper, and so this certificate is made. This is a forced situation that everyone would like to avoid, but at present in an average school year the parent can justify three days, justify three days of absence for his child, leaving the legal loophole, the circumvention of the law, which is a bad example for children and, on the other hand, puts the parents concerned in a humiliating position. In addition, the extra administration is completely unnecessary for otherwise driven pediatricians, taking valuable time away from the healing of children who are really sick, and if someone decides to take their child to the doctor's waiting room, then there is a good chance that he will catch an infectious disease in this way, again completely unnecessary. The problem was also highlighted in a communication by the Association of Hungarian Pediatricians, the people concerned launched a petition, and my colleague László Lukács turned to the Ministry in March, but unfortunately he did not receive a meaningful reply to his suggestion. Dear Minister, We are aware that the number of days that can be verified by a parent is determined by the policies of kindergartens and schools, but we believe that we can make a positive change by amending the relevant regulation. I would therefore like to ask Mr Secretary of State that, with the involvement of professional representation bodies, he would be partners in the change to change this current practice, which is ethically worrying, without parental responsibility, and which is also uncontrollable and unrespectable. Thank you very much for your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[13.50]]
u2019-10-28-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-10-28-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As you pointed out, it's a matter of school policy, so it's regulated there. Obviously, in no policy can it be said that school or anyone can override medical certificates. So now we can only talk about general principles and goals, but the regulation itself is in the policy of each school. We're talking about if a child is in bed for, say, more than three days, probably because he's inpatient, he should be seen by a doctor or not. I believe that it is in the best interests of both the child and his classmates and parents if the child is not only at home for one day with a fever, but we can talk about a longer illness, then it is good for a doctor to see it. It is obvious that if you can see that this is a two-day, three-day, four-day, one-week, two-week illness, and this is predictable, and you don't need a check-up at the end, the doctor will examine the child once, perhaps prescribe the treatment that the child needs, but then don't have to take the child back when he's cured. That is why we have opened up the possibility, in order to reduce the bureaucracy that you consider important and which we consider important, to reduce queues, that if the child becomes ill, he will be taken to the doctor, the doctor will look at it, examine it, and you can also show this certificate to the school that he will probably be away for four days, because this disease has a four-day recovery period with such symptoms, and we do not have to go back again when the child is cured, only to go in for the certificate, but at the beginning. As I said, the one-day stays you referred to, the parent himself can justify, it's about longer illnesses. But in the case of a longer illness, it was very important for you to have order and prevention before, yet it is important that a parent, if they are sick for a week, take your child to a doctor, because there may be some consequences, complications, or some other disease that is only a sign of which it is important to see the child by a doctor. The whole point of this measure is that the child himself can be cured and not infect his classmates. So what could be simplified in administration was simplified, but it is important for the sick children to be seen by a doctor. Thank you very much.
u2019-10-28-110	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of these questions, and we are now moving to immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, Congressman Péter Jakab, Head of the Group, the representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How long does the Government take advantage of people's patience? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Dear Chief of Staff, The Prime Minister has appointed Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask you to accept the person of the responding party or to wait for Prime Minister to be present in the Chamber by replying.
u2019-10-28-111	Thank you, Mr President, but the electorate expects the Prime Minister to answer your questions, so I'll wait.
u2019-10-28-112	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you and this House that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zoltán Balczó, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: It's an address. Honourable Congressman, The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I respectfully ask you to accept the identity of the responder. [[For signal:]] Congressman says he'll take it. You have the floor, please.
u2019-10-28-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In the government propaganda, the announcement that the Hungarian economy is doing great is permanent. Orbán spoke about this in his letter to the pensioners, and in the campaign giant posters announced that Hungary has one of the most dynamically developing economies in the European Union, and György Matolcsy is visionizing that we will also prevent Austria by 2030. Why do you need this propaganda? Because most people do not experience the result of this economic growth. This is why for a large number of pensioners, the HUF 9,000 premium is also important, and the campaign is lined up for dry pasta and potatoes, where appropriate. I know GDP, compared to the EU average, is increasing, but let us consider that in Hungary more than 50 percent of GDP is produced by international, predominantly multinational companies, who optimize their taxes and deliver profits. The economy must not be run for itself, but for social purposes, for example, because of income growth. In terms of annual net earnings in Hungary, only Latvia, Romania and Bulgaria will be preceded in 2018 in the EU, and we will be at the back of the Visegrád Four; in the Czech Republic, net income is 30.5 percent higher and the EU average is almost three times higher. The reason for this is the economic policy of the Orbán system, the service of international companies with cheap labour, built on this, with all the serious social consequences, without regard to it. So my question, Mr Secretary: do you really believe that your claim that the Hungarian economy is doing great is credible? Thank you. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-10-28-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-10-28-115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Not only does the government think that the country is not the government, but the country: the performance of businesses, Hungarian families and Hungarian people is outstanding, also in comparison with the international level, but also any other international organisation that evaluates Hungary's economic performance. For example, credit rating agencies that rated Hungary, such as the IMF, which increased expected GDP results by one percent, or the OECD or the European Union itself. So I think that there is a problem with your judgment rather than the performance of the Hungarian economy and of the Hungarian government. As to his criticism that pensioners do not feel this. Since the government of Fidesz-KDNP, pensioners have felt that their pension has become valuable, that their pension has only increased and strengthened in terms of inflation, that they can buy more for pensions than before, for example, in the time of your ally, in the time of left-wing governments. As far as income growth is concerned, Hungary is one of the highest in the European Union, and this year, for example, in the first six months, the increase in incomes exceeded 10%. In addition, the November 2016 wage agreement plays a major role in this, under which living labour costs are significantly reduced in Hungary and personal income tax rates have also decreased significantly. Combining this with GDP-related income increases, we can say that due to the increase in incomes, for example, retail sales have been increasing significantly in Hungary for years. Hungarian economic policy is indeed credible and well-established, contrary to your claim.
u2019-10-28-116	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Zoltán Balczó has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-10-28-117	Thank you for the floor. An increase in income could be referred to if you were not in government nine and a half years ago. From this point of view, the standard of living in Hungary is the data that I have said: it is at the back of the European Union. Of course, international organisations refer to GDP, but their fruits are known to the tree, and GDP is not the fruit of the economy. GDP is a fictitious, though important, number in this world. What is important here is exactly how the Hungarian standard of living develops as a result of economic growth. Orbán said in Saudi Arabia what his economic policy was: come here to invest, the labour force is cheap compared to its quality, and the labour code is flexible. Since then, the Hungarian labour force is not cheap, but the installed Eastern labour force, since then you have changed it, making the labour code even more flexible. So this economic policy is recognised by Western investors, the Hungarian society is becoming less and less so, and it has also been shown in the municipal elections. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-10-28-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[14.00]]
u2019-10-28-119	Honourable Congressman, All prosperity is based on economic performance. The only thing you can eat, live up to is what the economy does. With this statement, you underestimate the performance of Hungarian people, underestimate what they have achieved over the past ten years. Yes, we started very far away in 2010, the Hungarian economy was very deep, there were millions of people in the foreign exchange credit crisis, many problems had to be solved, such as stopping the increase in overhead costs, the foreign exchange credit problem, which I mentioned earlier. It followed the fact that the Hungarian economy was on a growth path, and the incomes also increased along with the growth path. I think it's not the credibility of the government, it's the credibility of your party. You are now blowing the same thing as the faction sitting next to them, the MSZP fraction, because you think together, live together, campaign together, your ally became the left, DK and MSZP. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-10-28-120	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Lajos Korózs, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-10-28-121	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, You are aware that the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office has filed charges against Congressman György Simonka for high-value fiscal fraud committed by a criminal organisation. This case, which I would like to discuss, is connected to György Simonka by a thousand threads. Through the project "Women in the family, at work," the Simonkas called down EFOP funds through literally identical applications. Each application was for HUF 200-200 million, six applications were submitted that would have been made or implemented in different settlements. It is true that these settlements differed completely from one another in both structural and demographic compositions, but even the hits in the proposals and the repetitions of words are the same. In each application, 30% of those who are involved in atypical employment, 10 percent of Roma everywhere, these funds are spent on project management, HR consultants and training, if any. For all these reasons, I ask Minister, he has filed a criminal complaint, because today the blind can see that these applications were produced on a conveyor belt in South Peace, submitted and stolen. I ask you again, have you committed a criminal complaint? Because if you hadn't, I would have done it tomorrow.
u2019-10-28-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2019-10-28-123	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The fact is that in the Parliament we have followed the practice followed by the majority of the Parliament over the past three decades; you have not always done this, but in most cases this has happened, that if the Attorney General has turned to Parliament in a public prosecutor's case to suspend the immunity of any Member, then we have given our consent to this. We did so when we were talking about a Fidesz Member, so we did when we were talking about socialist Members, and I, unfortunately, can argue against it when you didn't do so. Therefore, the criminal proceedings against Mr Simonka György are ongoing, and this decision can make it possible to proceed. He is also entitled to the presumption of innocence; in the course of criminal proceedings, of course, all these matters may be covered by the prosecution. And in Hungarian politics, the claim that someone is pressing charges has already been made with a particular content, unfortunately, it cannot, because it has become almost a natural part of daily accusations. So you're not being held back by anyone else. One thing we can say today is that everyone in criminal proceedings is entitled to the presumption of innocence. If the accusations are confirmed, there will be serious consequences; if they are not, then the accusations against the Member prove to be unfounded. So I propose to the Member that he do not take an action to initiate proceedings in a case where criminal proceedings are otherwise pending, and even the Parliament has contributed to the suspension of immunity. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-10-28-124	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Congressman Lajos Korózs. Here you go.
u2019-10-28-125	Thank you. I've been in Parliament long enough to remember a lot of things. For example, there is the case of Miklós Simon, who, by the way, should have been imprisoned a long time ago, but he is still sitting in Parliament. But, please, these people, like the mayor of the Forge House or the mayor of Tótkomlós, they're accomplices to what the Simonkas did! It's one thing for Simonka to be prosecuted now. I think Simonka's wife, her mother, her sister should be on the defendant's bench. It's no coincidence that 30-32 people are being charged with this right now by the D.A.'s office, because this is a budget fraud committed in a criminal organization that they did and these foundations, these companies. Tell me, Secretary of State, what the hell is the South Peace disaster fund doing in such an equal opportunities program? ! What is the Tourist Destination of Pestlaka in the project of Tótkomlós? ! Well, it's all about billing and stealing money. Bastards are the last... all of them! I don't even know what to call them anymore. Dark bastards, they're all going to jail!
u2019-10-28-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is a matter for the Minister. Here you go.
u2019-10-28-127	Honourable Congressman, I understand that there is a part in the history of your party that has been investigated and judged, but that is not the case today. So I can't conduct an investigation, and I can't get judgments from the court. There was a time when the party of state, the Socialist Workers' Party, made the judgments, thanks to God, and I think that we should rejoice together even if you are sitting in the faction of this party's predecessor, that this period has ceased. So you're free to judge mayors of small settlements with harsh words. [[Lajos Korózs: They're criminals!]] And you can make serious accusations against them, the D.A.'s office is investigating the case, they have to find out, they're prosecuting several people, and the court is gonna judge. I do not want those times to come back when, let's say, the Hungarian Socialist Workers' Party has decided who will be prosecuted and who will be convicted. [[Gergely Arató: Remember also in the case of Czegledy.]] I hope that I can trust this assumption that you are as convinced of the rightness of democracy and the rule of law as we are. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-10-28-128	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, 'Does the police march again? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Mr. Prime Minister, Gergely Gulyás, Minister for the Prime Minister's Office, has asked for an answer in order to carry out an urgent public task. I respectfully ask, do you accept the person who answered, or wait for Prime Minister to answer in person in the Chamber.
u2019-10-28-129	I accept Minister, and I hope that Prime Minister will not deny his reply to the Budapest Treaty. [[Gergely Gulyás: There is no guarantee of this.]]
u2019-10-28-130	Thank you very much. You have the floor.
u2019-10-28-131	Dear Minister, On the streets of Budapest, neo-Nazis in black marched again on 23 October and raised fear among peaceful citizens. The Criminal Code is 339. You're a lawyer, you know that more than I do, you're committing a misdemeanor if you're acting out in a way that's extremely anti-communicative. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The ally of the Guard says all this.]] and thus offends and frightens, or public order..., pardon, or qualified case, if all of this takes place in a group, disrupting public peace, at a public event. The Assembly Act 13. The assembly shall be prohibited pursuant to Article 4 of the Convention if the assembly endangers public security or public order directly, unnecessarily and disproportionately. We would think that these two laws provide a perfectly clear briefing on the fact that such a uniformed and fear-fearing marching is not a place on the streets of Budapest. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Go to Jobbik.]] But it seems, and I would add, that even the police knew this in the spring, when, for precisely these reasons, he forbade the march of the Fidesz fake organization Mi Hazank, on Turkish Miklós, but it seems that the political interest now requires something else, because in this case, the police not only did not act, but provided and accompanied this procession. And to be clear, it's not just an innocent march, it's supposed and rumored that members of the same group attacked a nightclub that was damaged. [[14.10]] The members of the same group interrupted the event of a opposition party, and not members of this group, but another extreme right-wing person, who was also popular in the government press, attacked the press conference of the Democratic Coalition and hit one of our local government representatives. After that, European citizens have every right to ask what professional or political reasons you are putting up with for extreme right rallying. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] On the streets of Budapest. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2019-10-28-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás for a two-minute answer. Here you go.
u2019-10-28-133	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In the last nine years, everyone who has watched Hungarian public life and the Hungarian public has experienced that the authorities have acted most decisively against all acts of hatred and violence. This is why today the phenomena that became commonplace in Hungary during your government, when the state lost its violence monopoly and could not maintain order, have ceased. In the specific case, the investigation and the police action are justified, of course, if the data of the investigation give rise to this, then the prosecution or, where appropriate, judicial proceedings. All I can say is that if we find out who was involved in these acts, then the authorities must also act against it, and you must be informed that they will be able to join forces with them in the next coalition. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-10-28-134	Thank you very much, Minister. One-minute rejoinder, Congressman Gergely Arató has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-10-28-135	Unfortunately, Minister, he did not give a reassuring answer as to why the police are unable to read the announcement of an event and recognize what it is about. And your suggestion that the police would investigate this doesn't reassure me, considering that I personally filed a complaint against the neo-Nazis marching on the outbreak-day event with the swastika flag, where the police had enough to interrogate the journalist who reported the photographer, who took the photographer, and then gave me the case, saying that he couldn't figure out who was going up. The organizers seem to have forgotten to ask. I have to tell you that many people think that you're letting the neo-Nazis march again because they have a political interest in it, because that's what you're trying to prove that there's no order in the capital under the new leadership. But I'd like to tell you that you're not gonna make it, you can't fool the people of Budapest. They know that you have the moral, political, and legal responsibility for the neo-Nazi rallying. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2019-10-28-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2019-10-28-137	I can see the tendency in the various pro-state successor organizations to continue judging and prosecuting, but it is good that they do not, because, for example, Congressman, you do not understand the difference between interrogation and witness hearing, and it would be rather disturbing if you carried out the prosecution. Once again, as long as this country has a civilian government, the violence monopoly belongs to the state, no illegal act of fear or hatred shall remain unpunished. In the specific case, too, what has happened must be revealed accordingly. Another issue is that the reconnaissance must be continued among the congressman's allies, because you will be happy to form a coalition and make joint candidates with whatever extremes. So I ask that, if your allies are in sight, in any way, the congressman should not take this as a personal attack against you or your party. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-10-28-138	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Do you have any change in the government's environmental policy? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Prime Minister asked Mr Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to reply in response to an urgent public task. I ask you with respect to accept the person who is responding, or to wait for the Prime Minister to be present in the Chamber with the answer.
u2019-10-28-139	Thank you very much, I'll wait for Prime Minister.
u2019-10-28-140	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the next immediate questions in the third row. Dear Parliament, Congressman Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what is the national interest? It's an address. I can ask you the same question I just asked the congresswoman to accept the person of the response, or... [[Antal Csárdi: I accept.]] Yes, you will, thank you very much. So Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, will answer. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-10-28-141	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear House, Since World War II, it has not occurred that the Hungarian government has assisted war crimes or has not supported war criminals. Dear House, Dear Minister, It is amazing what the Hungarian government represents in connection with the Hungarian-Kurd conflict. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Hungarian-Kurd?]] It is clear and proven that there is support for genocide, and if you have doubts about it, I would suggest that the leaders of our NATO allies who clearly stated that the very extreme execution and torture of Hevrin Khalaf have exhausted this concept in this respect. We are talking about the Secretary General of the Syrian Future Party, who did nothing but fight for reconciliation between ethnic, religious and minority groups and who was executed, tortured and mutilated by Turkish militia members. The big question is what is the position of the Hungarian nation, and what is the interest of the Hungarian nation on this issue, when you revealed it, in the name of the Hungarian nation, you support the Turkey that did all this and did it. We know that such an act of war has no other effect than the surge of migration, and, of course, it cannot be excluded that this is in your interest, since the current situation cannot be sufficiently used for internal policy purposes. Thank you very much.
u2019-10-28-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll give the floor to Secretary Gergely Gulyás for two minutes. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2019-10-28-143	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In view of the fact that several members of the government, including the Prime Minister, have made the government's position sufficiently clear in a number of forums, including in Parliament, I would not like to repeat all the elements of this, but at one point I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that if someone does not want to see migration in Europe and events like 2015 in Europe, then they must support Turkey in one thing, and that is that more than 3 million immigrants from the refugee population do not come to Europe. This does not apply to Hungary's support for any action which is otherwise incompatible with international law. We have made the joint declaration of the European Union possible, but we consider it important to make it clear to Turkey that it is in Europe's interest that a similar wave of migration should not be repeated. If Turkey is the 3-3.5, almost 4 million people who are in Turkey today, partly come from Syria and are indeed refugees there and, in part, is an immigrant in Turkey today, moving towards Europe, it will be a much greater tragedy for Europe than what happened in 2015. If you do not want to do so, you will not have to accuse the Government of this regard for the resolution that we have made on this matter, but perhaps the countries of the European Union which are calling for the termination of agreements on support for refugees, including agreements with the Turks. So the Hungarian position was perfectly clear, the Hungarian Fundamental Law also provides clear guidance that the Hungarian State does not accept war as the resolution of disputes between states, but it is also necessary to see that the national and European interest that events in 2015 mainly have multiple effects is not repeated several times with as many people. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-10-28-144	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Csárdi. Here you go. [[14.20]]
u2019-10-28-145	Thank you very much for the floor. You slide, lie, and slide. That EP declaration condemning Turkey was signed when it was envisaged that you would be kicked out of your own party family and be seen with the naked eye from the moon. Then you supported this statement. And you are probably the only political community in the world who think that migration can be reduced by supporting acts of war. He's unconscious! I can't find words! I think it's quite clear that you're bluffing. Or, if you do not speak with him, I think we can expect a statement by President Erdoğan during his visit to Hungary, made by the KDNP and the government, in which the actions I spoke about today are condemned. If I had a clear answer to that, I'd be honored. Thank you very much.
u2019-10-28-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Minister. Here you go.
u2019-10-28-147	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, I don't want to hurt you in any way, but it would be expected that if you wish to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question here, at least one newspaper reader would be informed of the matter in which you speak. What I referred to was not the vote in the European Parliament, but the joint statement issued by the European Union long before, weeks earlier than the vote in the European Parliament. Since full unanimity is needed on foreign affairs issues, this statement could not have been issued without Hungarian consent. In this sense, we have therefore joined a common European position, while maintaining our special opinion that Turkey's role in Europe today is indeed a stabilising factor, despite Turkey being on the border with Europe, and the European Union has been conducting accession negotiations with Turkey for decades without a realistic alternative to its entry to this day. However, in order not to repeat previous conditions like those in 2015 in Europe, it is necessary to take into account Turkey's situation and the situation of more than 3 million refugees and immigrants still living there. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-28-148	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-10-28-149	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, The cost of moving the Ministry of Finance to Castle from the planned 26 billion could now almost double to 47.5 billion. Overall, the creation of a government quarter costs taxpayers over 200 billion. So while patients take the drugs, the various equipment to hospitals, while state workers, educators, policemen, and firefighters work overtime to make a decent living while the government urinates in the Castle, eats Gundel breakfast. But if we are talking about urban management, 47 billion is ten times what we say Budapest spends a year on the maintenance of public parks in the capital. All our public parks could shine, shine. In addition, only half of the Ministry of Finance will work here, so no other building will be released, and a split ministry will be logistically problematic. Construction already makes life difficult for the Castle, and the traffic of thousands of people working here will be a major transport challenge. So, in addition to the cost of this urization, the Castle will also receive a government function in addition to its cultural, touristic and community function, so it will lead to permanent conflicts in the future. So, my questions are: how much more will urinating cost the taxpayers? What else are they planning to build in the Castle? And just as the Prime Minister stated that nothing can be built without the support of the capital's leadership, the same principle also applies to the government quarter, i.e. the government will consult the capital and the new mayor of District I, for example, on the resettlement of the Ministry of Finance? Thank you for your answer.
u2019-10-28-150	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2019-10-28-151	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to correct an inaccuracies. You said the Treasury Department wasn't going up to the Castle, so not even a building will be released. The first statement is true, the second is not, because the entire staff of the Ministry of Finance is not in the Ministry of Finance now, because the colleagues working with the EU parts are on Váci Road, and that remains so. So if you set aside the mandatory demagoguey and try to put it next to each other, how much the Hungarian State will gain by moving out of District V, these properties can be used, which, by the way, can significantly increase tourist traffic, increase the revenue in the event of proper exploitation, or even if they can only obtain revenue through the sale of these buildings, then there can be close equality even behind the Ministry of Finance's move. Moreover, it is not that we have invented something new, the Ministry of Finance will now move back to its old, traditional building, and the building at József Rádor Square is nothing less exclusive than the building at the Castle in the Holy Trinity Square. As regards the need for conciliation, we have stated on several occasions that we would like to cooperate with the Mayor of Budapest and with the General Assembly of Budapest. There are two areas in Budapest today that have nothing to do with the capital, but this is independent of the results of the election, this is a small part of the Castle District, the government quarter and Kossuth Square. This has been the case for years, since the laws do not allow the powers of the capital or district to be exercised. So these are the two areas in which the capital has no say at the moment, but if the mayor has a character opinion, we would be happy to listen to him. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-28-152	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio. Here you go.
u2019-10-28-153	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, He didn't answer how much more it was going to cost and what they were planning there. It would be good to have an answer to that later. The joyful news is that they believe that the present building will then be used in Joseph's Rádor Square. We are curious to see how this will benefit. We advise you not to spend half a billion forints on upholstery and ceramics, because this is urization. They should be more concerned with what the government is doing: raising the salaries of teachers, state employees, increasing social spending and making sure that climate protection is finally real in Hungary and not just talking about it. Thank you.
u2019-10-28-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Minister. Here you go.
u2019-10-28-155	I would like to thank Congressman for not counting on respirators for the various developments in Budapest. I would just like to remind you that once there was a government, a party of which did this in an election campaign, then bankrupted and destroyed the country. I think that if someone appreciates the past years fairly, we can say that since the change of regime, it has never been the seventh year now when economic growth is continuing, and perhaps the fourth year when there is a wage rise of more than 10 percent in the country. Of course, we are starting from a lower base, Hungary is, of course, still one of the poorer countries of the European Union, but it is a pity to take away all the improvements that you are questioning, while in Hungary the economy has done well in recent years, and the standard of living has also increased. I have no illusions that the demagogy competition that has already started within the opposition, and it seems that the results in the capital have given me further encouragement that this will continue, but I would like to at least ask you to take into account the minimum factuality. And we are pleased to say that, of course, we are also happy to cooperate with the new leadership in Budapest on climate protection, and we hope that there will be points where we can really move forward together in the development of Budapest. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-28-156	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Member Sándor Kovács, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question: what are the safeguards for the legal functioning of local authorities? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-10-28-157	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Minister, The current local elections in the campaign have unfortunately reduced the state of public speech. Unfortunately, we cannot go beyond the fact that the opposition group financed by Ferenc Gyurcsány supported an unworthy candidate such as Csaba Lackner, who, based on the recordings made public, has been known to gain private money through the use of stromanes. [[14.30]] Csaba Lackner boasted, on the basis of the recordings released, how, as district representative, a minimum of HUF 100 million per year of net revenue could be obtained illegally. According to him, a Member who is unable to do so is untalented and simply a stumbling block. The published audio material also shows that 200-250 million forints can be spent very quickly, especially for people who are used to this lifestyle. And even after that, he still denies the reality of what has been said to this day. The Mayor of Kispest, Péter Gajda and MSZP's MP Ágnes Kunhalmi rejected the charges directly. Nevertheless, on October 25, the President of the Socialists on his Facebook page only said, and I quote: "The deadline has expired. He made it very clear that he wouldn't be on the same page as Csaba Lackner. It must therefore be made clear to everyone that no one in Hungary can cause the deterioration of local public life, and at the same time it should not prevent local authorities from operating without consequences. In view of what has been said, I would like to ask the Minister what guarantees are provided for the legitimate functioning of local authorities. Thank you for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-28-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás for the answer. Here you go, Minister.
u2019-10-28-159	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, in the election campaign we were faced with the fact that Budapest's XIX. A municipal representative of the district has made a clear confession. Another issue is that it took your own mayor about two weeks to recognize a member of your own body of representatives from high-quality recruitment, who has been part of your own faction for years. This says a lot about his attitude to the 19th century, by the way. District Socialist faction and socialist leadership for corruption. We see that at the end of the week, it became clear that the Socialist Party will continue to decline, as it may not have become weaker because of the exclusion of this fellow Member from the party or the initiation of his exclusion, and at the same time Mayor Botka quit, so we see that both in the countryside and in Budapest the Socialist Party are fading. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Not in Győr!]] On this particular issue, we can only express our hope that it would be good if, in the municipalities where the socialist or left-wing mayor came to power, we did not see this practice, based on the soundtrack, to implement this general and natural practice. And we also hope that, in the same way as the prosecutor's office acts against other pro-government politicians, in this case we hope that criminal proceedings will reveal the way in which a municipal representative is able to obtain such corruption money as the Socialist Member spoke about on the recording. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-28-160	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Sándor Kovács is entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-10-28-161	Thank you very much, Minister, but I would continue to ask that the government, through government offices at least, try to supervise the kind of old socialist or liberal practice that means the taking up of loans, since these municipalities are starting to become indebted again. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman, Z. Carpathian Daniel: He did not start!]] The statistics show that the cities led by the Fidesz mayors handed over the cities with a positive account balance. There is a good chance that these corruption cases will be covered by loans that can be financed from borrowing cities led by opposition mayors. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-28-162	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2019-10-28-163	Thank you very much. During the transfer-take, the government offices carried out the task that the law refers to their jurisdiction. What I can say is that, indeed, in Budapest alone, the pro-government mayors handed over the districts where the opposition has now won with a reserve of more than HUF 90 billion. The basis is therefore excellent, we hope that these districts should not be reinstated in bankruptcy, as they were before, and we hope that the responsible farming that has been carried out in recent years will continue to characterize these districts. At the time of the adoption of the Fundamental Law, we have made great progress in ensuring that debt can not take place in the municipalities without any consequences, which is why government agencies and government have to allow borrowing today. There is no reason to borrow from the metropolitan districts today, for we see the significant reserve with which almost all the districts handed over the new leadership. We hope that they will increase this wealth, and we will not be experiencing the procedure, nor will we see the procedure that we have learned in the video you mentioned. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-28-164	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask an immediate question. to the Minister of Finance: How credible is the Government's policy? Mr President, on behalf of the President, I would like to inform you that the Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai State Secretary for the response to the urgent public mission. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: I accept.]] I see that Congressman accepts the person who is responding. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-10-28-165	Mr President, Dear House, Although Secretary of State tried to be friends with me last week, and on the same page, don't work for me, you! In an expression he tried to make us understand that he disagrees with us professionally, Mr Secretary, because we are not good friends, but you are a State Secretary, and I am a Member behind whom there are thousands of votes. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Behind Mr. Secretary of State, tens of thousands!]] I'm gonna try the impossible one more time, and I'm gonna try to get a professional answer to a very simple question. To the simple question that, while you are talking about wage increases in Hungary, Minister of State and Minister of State and, unfortunately, even with this region, if we are looking at purchasing power, I would like to note to you that the bleeding out of the cafeteria elements, i.e. the preferential tax employer benefits, which you have committed this year, does indeed lead to the increase in the gross wages of people, since you have abolished a cafeteria element, such as, for example, the allowance for travel rental, housing support for mobility, the favourable taxation of student loan support, as well as the support for housing, which was considered an employer's contribution to housing, construction and renovation. By eliminating these, the employers, who feel better, of course, incorporated this allowance in the employee's gross wage in the form of cafeteria, but, Mr. State Secretary, to sell it, so that the employers themselves and nicely increase the wages from which Hungarians would have to cover all their housing and subsistence costs in the same way, a simple statistical illusion. I therefore call on you, and this is what my question is about, to restore reduced-tax cafeteria elements, housing support, student loan support, travel forms should continue to be taxed so that the employer can encourage this employee in a preferential way in addition to a wage level that is beginning to fall short of one of the lowest and regional levels of purchasing power in Europe. You would have a dog's duty to bring all these amendments back, and to examine, together with the opposition, how to help typical Hungarians in typical situations, not only from the upper middle class, so as you do. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-10-28-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-10-28-167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, If you are monitoring the economic processes in Hungary and could identify with it, as I said in my previous reply, that just like the international credit rating agencies, the IMF or the OECD, or the European Union itself, then you can see that the economic results that show up in economic growth in the first place do also come down on people. Of course, you can always say that this is not enough, it needs to be increased. This is precisely the objective of government policy: greater economic growth, even four times the European Union must go beyond economic growth, and people will receive income from the growth they produce, and people will receive all kinds of benefits. The fact that you are criticising the government's policy that the cafeteria elements have ceased to exist does not take into account the fact that, on the other hand, people's real income, i.e. what purchasing power they actually have behind their income, how much service and goods they can buy, does not take into account that this has been growing significantly and more year after year. [[14.40]] The result is that retail sales increase by 5-6 percent per year, which means that people can buy more and more, but the statistical indicator of the sale of durable consumer goods indicates this. The government's policy of lower taxes, lower personal income tax, which is now only 15 percent, is fully supported by the government's policy that, with the second and fewer living labour burdens in the European Union, it is possible to achieve a real and significant increase in income and thus an increase in living standards in Hungary. The government is pursuing this policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-28-168	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpát. Here you go.
u2019-10-28-169	Secretary of State, that's not true. For the whole of Europe, Hungary is one of the driving forces at purchasing power. Mr. Secretary, you read the daily press, and I know very well about you. You also read yesterday that Bucharest was ahead of Budapest in terms of purchasing power [[Zsolt Gréczy: Shame!]] , and based on this measurement, it is a shame and a shame that, while you are pampering multinational companies, and unfortunately, most of the Hungarian economic growth is produced by these companies, rather than by the small and medium-sized Hungarian companies who have been bled out, the level of Hungarian wages is in decline on a regional scale. If the Hungarian minimum wage is measured in euro, the lowest figure is found in the whole area. The Polish wage is 31 percent higher, the Slovak is 20 percent higher by 2020, the Czech is 12 percent higher, and although the Romanian minimum wage is even 2 percent lower, on purchasing power, so if you look at what you can buy from that money, unfortunately this is even stronger than Hungarian. So pull yourselves together, because this will be very little, and the Hungarian people will feel on their skin, on their wallets, that what you have said here is not enough for deception, and you would simply stand up to the sign of lies. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-10-28-170	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Secretary of State is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2019-10-28-171	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In a few minutes, your group will have the second Member who simply underestimates the performance of the Hungarian people. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. Zsolt Gréczy intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] underestimates the performance of the Hungarian economy, underestimates the performance of Hungarian workers. But the numbers will remain numbers even if you say, emotionally every week, that there is no increase in income in Hungary. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] They are growing, and if you choose whether you want to live in Bucharest or you want to live in Budapest, you will probably choose Budapest. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: The reason for this is quite different...]] I don't know what altitudes. I believe that the government's policy is on the right track, that the basis for sustained growth, which was created by the government through tax cuts and other measures, is indeed the basis for an improvement in Hungarian people's income and their existentiality. We will stay on this path, not what you demand. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-28-172	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question about the results of this year's Water Summit in terms of domestic and international water diplomacy, and how did the event contribute to tackling the global water crisis? It's an address. Minister Tamás Menczer has appointed Mr Secretary of State with the answer for an urgent public task. [[For signal:]] The congresswoman indicates that she accepts the person who is responding. You have the floor. Here you go.
u2019-10-28-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Water is one of the most important prerequisites of life. Approximately three quarters of the Earth's surface is covered with water, which is why we call the Earth a blue planet. More than 97 percent of the earth's water is saltwater in the oceans and seas of the world. Most of the surface fresh water, which is part of the earth's fresh water resources, is present in frozen conditions, in glaciers and in permanent snow and ice-covered areas of our planet. All of this means that only 0.02 percent of the planet's total water supply must be shared by mankind and that part of our wildlife whose survival depends on surface fresh water. At present, 2.3 billion of the world's 7.5 billion inhabitants do not already have enough water, and according to the UN estimates, 40 percent more people will live on Earth in 50 years, about 10.5 billion people will live on Earth, but the water supply will continue to decline during this time. Experts consider interstate conflicts to be the number one global risk, but water problems are the biggest risk in their impact for years, as can be read and read from several surveys. Dear Secretary of State, This is the third time in Budapest that the Water Summit has been held in the past few days. The main event of the conference was the thematic plenary session with the participation of the key rapporteurs, which discussed the water challenges, the problems caused by the threesomes and their social, economic, environmental and political consequences. The Water Summit in the Budapest call underlines the need to create a water-proof future, build a new water culture with the help of innovative technologies and the cooperation of stakeholders in all sectors. With regard to the final documents, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State: what results did this year's Water Summit bring with regard to domestic and international water diplomacy, and how did the event contribute to tackling the global water crisis? Thank you for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-28-174	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer is from Secretary of State Tamás Menczer. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-10-28-175	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you for bringing this important question to the Parliament. I would like to report that at the third Water Summit, we have solved all these kinds of problems, but, of course, and unfortunately, they are more complicated and require a much longer-term solution than we could do with them so quickly, but we have tried everything to do so. Because you are absolutely right: water is a question that connects us and uses Earth's water resources together, so either we can solve these problems together or we will fail together when it comes to the quantity and quality of water. It is also true that investment in water management should be encouraged, in particular those which help to increase water safety. Therefore, at this year's World Summit, we put more emphasis on implementation than ever before, which is why the exhibition of the Hungarian water industry was given a special role. The importance of the Hungarian water industry and the weight of the problem are also shown by the fact that 2.2 billion people in the world today do not have reliable access to safe drinking water and 1.8 billion people only have access to contaminated drinking water. Not only regional and international water disputes, but also local water crises can become sources of conflict. We believe that help should be brought to where the problem is, and that development should therefore be carried out where these problems relating to water and water management and drinking water exist. Therefore, Hungary is active in international development activities in the Western Balkans in four continents, Asia, Africa, South America and Europe, with the aim of contributing to speeding up the catching-up of developing countries, so that we can also curb migration and migration. The formula is very simple: when we talk about decent living conditions, water is obviously the first. If there's water, they can stay there. If there's no water, they'll come. So, of course, our ambitions, together with our international partners, are in this direction. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-28-176	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. Here you go.
u2019-10-28-177	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's detailed reply. Indeed, water is one of our most important strategic resources and, therefore, particular care must be taken to safeguard this treasure. But it is also obvious that the management of our surface waters, our rivers, only for Hungary, is not the solution, and that is why a full international cooperation is needed in order to maintain this. I hope that the government will not only seek to preserve our domestic water base, but will also support international cooperation that is necessary to preserve fresh water. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-28-178	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The Secretary of State is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-10-28-179	Thank you very much for the floor. Of course, we support this, Congresswoman, as shown by this Water Summit in Budapest, which, by the way, shows the weight of which the interest was high: more than 2400 registered from 118 countries. At the conference, representatives of world policymakers, water experts, scientists and funding institutions jointly and at the highest level addressed the prevention of the global water crisis and the resolution of water problems. [[14.50]] A little further back to our own house, because, of course, you are right that water does not stop at the border, and we are talking about an international issue and a challenge: it affects us, of course. On the one hand, this is an international issue, because more than 90 percent of domestic waters come from across the border, so we are vulnerable to water purity and water pollution. Another figure is that although the annual amount of precipitation has not changed overall, a larger amount of precipitation falls in a shorter period. And even though our water supply is very much above the water poverty threshold elevenfold, almost 10 percent of the country's territory is threatened by desertification. So there are many problems and challenges at both Hungarian and international level. The most important, putting together political will and financing background is an important and very big challenge for the next period. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-28-180	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: å What will happen to you, Vágóhíd utca? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Minister Károly Kontra was appointed by Secretary of State to respond to the urgent public task. I respectfully ask you to accept the identity of the responder. [[On Dr. Tamás Bellozó's signal:]] Yeah, he'll take it. Honourable Congressman, You have the floor, please.
u2019-10-28-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, The police object on Száváhíd Street has been a well-respected institution for almost 30 years, and it is a very well-known institution among law enforcement employees, since, in addition to sports and recreational opportunities, the programme of police orphans and their Christmas gifts take place every year through the retirement clubs of various organizations. It is at least as important that the annual physical survey required by law, as I understand it, be corrected, Mr Secretary of State, the nearly 15 thousand police officers in Budapest and around have to perform on this object every year, which is prescribed by law, and its details are regulated by a regulation. Now, the news that has come to me from several places is very strange, Mr. Secretary, and since there is no public information on this, neither the Ministry of Interior nor the police's website, so I'm coming to you, which tells me that a good part of this object has been sold or handed over to anyone else. There have been various rumors within the organization that this will be part of the real estate development of OTP, or that Fradi has requested this area, but it is a fact and a fact, which I have seen with my own eyes, because after that I went, Mr. Secretary, to see that the athletic track within this area is completely trashed, surrounded, and can no longer be used at least as part of this object. Thus, colleagues cannot do what is required in the law, because as part of the annual physical survey, they would also be obliged to do certain things in that area. So I ask Mr Secretary of State whether it is true that this area has been sold or otherwise owned. If so, to whom and why? If not, please respond to the reason for this intervention and how long it will take. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2019-10-28-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, the answer will be heard from Secretary of State Károly Kontra. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-10-28-183	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to say that the Vágóhíd street object plays a very important role in the physical preparation of professional staff, not only in the annual survey, but also in the physical preparation, because it is very important that professional staff, whether police or other professional ones, can carry out their task in a proper physical condition. This also contributes, in my view, to better and better results being achieved by the police: the number of crimes is decreasing, the detection indicator is improving and we can live more and more safely. As president of the Hungarian Police Sports Association, I have no knowledge that anyone has sold this to anyone. In fact, I am aware that in September 2018 the Police Education and Training Centre was decided to set up a Police Leisure and Sports Centre in the area of the Vágóhíd Street object. The development idea is that buildings and service facilities in the area will be fully renovated at several stages. In the project of the Hungarian Football Association, a large-scale grass football field with lighting, bleachers, dressing rooms and a four-track, recortan-covered runway is implemented. The Standing Police support this program with HUF 300 million, and the MLSZ supports this program with HUF 430 million. The aim of the developments in the Száváhíd utca object is the XXI. The establishment of a police leisure, recreation and sports centre, meeting the challenges and standards of the century. Thus, its current exploitation, its aim remains unchanged, while at the same time it provides a higher opportunity to continue leisure and sports activities that meet the expectations of the age. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-28-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Harangozó for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-10-28-185	Thank you very much. At the beginning, Mr. Secretary of State almost reassured me, but now I understand why there are rumors and why there are legends and why the OTP has been spoken, because Sándor Csányi will be the investor. How, Mr. Secretary? About what? How does a football club invest 400 million forints on a police property? [[Lajos Rig: Tao!]] Who's gonna have it now, who's gonna use it? Does the MLSZ give the Hungarian police these 400-million forints? 'Cause it's a nice gesture, but I'd like to see the papers on it. Or is it just what many suspect that this area will simply be removed from the police's treatment and become another fantastic soccer object? And the police, I say it more forcefully, are unable to comply with the laws at the moment, because a physical survey according to the prescribed regulation cannot be carried out in a closed area. Mr Secretary, I am not reassured by the answer, and we will go further on this matter, because I think it is in everyone's interest to be clear. And I would very much appreciate it if the rest of the objects were spent by the police, if they were already spending billions of dollars on all sorts of investments, because you know, Mr. Secretary, that a good part of these objects is now in an unworthy state. Thank you so much for listening.
u2019-10-28-186	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2019-10-28-187	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, Indeed, this object is primarily intended for the physical preparation of professional staff, but it is also used to a significant extent by former retired professional staff, which I see myself. And this is also an excellent location for family programs. I'm not talking about it, and I'm telling you again, I don't know that we're selling this, and I dare say that this news isn't true. And I'd also like to say that this renovation is about to begin, which I was talking about. This renovation is very appropriate, because this object, which has excellent features, justifies this condition. And by the way, my fellow Member, I would say that between 2004 and 2009, you were a consultant and political advisor to several socialist police ministers: if, at the time you were in the government, you had begun to renovate this, we would have much less work to do. But trust me, we're gonna figure it out, we're gonna do it, because it's very important for us to have a professional staff and respect for it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-28-188	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, That concludes the hour of immediate questioning. This brings us to the end of the discussion of our agendas. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. He applied for a post-municipal speech with the title of the Mutual Convention on Serbian Nationality in Hungary, by Serbian Nationality Spokesman Alexov Lyubomir. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. Speaker.
u2019-10-28-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Poštovana Skupštino! Poštovani Predsednice! Pošto predlog zakona pred uvaženim Domom ne razmatra se kao narodnosna tačka dnevnog reda, ovim putem želim da podelim sa Vama nekoliko misli. Dear Parliament, Mr President, I would like to share my thoughts with you on the draft law before this House on the publication of certificates and diplomas issued by the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Convention for the Mutual Recognition of Scientific Degrees, issued in Hungary and the Republic of Serbia. [[15.00]] The decision concerning the life of the Serbian community in Hungary is the agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in which the certificates and diplomas issued in the two countries, as well as the documents certifying the scientific degree, are mutually recognised. Almost 40 years have passed since the agreement on mutual recognition of the equivalence of school certificates and diplomas was signed in Budapest on 7 March 1980. The reciprocity was established between the Hungarian People's Republic and the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, so the time has come to blow the dust off this convention, following the requirements of the era. The transformations that have taken place in Hungary and in our region are reflected in changes in public education, as well as in the form systems affecting higher education. The agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Serbia facilitates the expansion of education and scientific relations between the two countries. This is a great help for students of Hungarian nationality who continue or intend to continue their studies in Serbia, taking care of their roots and maintaining their ethnic language. For us who belong to the Serbian nationality in Hungary, our important mission is to carry on this dual identity as our children and grandchildren live and feed on it. This requires all forward-looking measures to promote a high level of learning of different sectoral disciplines, in addition to the native language teaching of language, literature and history. Realistically, it is not to be expected, in order to help all nationalities, that national minority mother tongue education can take place in all fields, but it is undisputed that education and scientific relations strengthen cooperation between citizens of both countries, as well as understanding each other's scientific and spiritual life and way of life. The other welcome direction of the convention is that it also helps to study Hungarian students in Serbia, including in particular in Vojvodina, in Hungary. The Convention contributes to establishing relations between the two countries and deepening mutual understanding. With this forward-looking neighbourhood policy, the government facilitates the employment of professionals with Hungarian or Serbian higher or secondary education between the two countries. On behalf of myself and of the Serbian nationality that I represent, I welcome this convention, which is important both in national and national policy. Thank you for listening, and I wish you more effective work.
u2019-10-28-190	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, Mr Brenner Koloman, Member of the Jobbik Group, has also applied for an after-the-date address: How long will border controls continue at the Austrian-Hungarian border? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-10-28-191	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, It was recently announced that the Burgenland government would further reduce the transit traffic, so that two Hungarian and Slovenian border crossings forbid the entry of heavy goods vehicles into Austria, except for trucks entering or leaving this border area. The restriction concerns the Klingenbach-Sopron and Deutschkreutz-Kópháza crossings to Austria and the Bonisdorf-Sotina crossings to Slovenia. They should therefore no longer be used by trucks with more than 7.5 tonnes of transit traffic. The article states that the traffic restriction was based on a traffic count involving six border posts on the Austrian-Hungarian side: the questioners stopped the trucks and assessed their destination, and that a list of detours was drawn up. The aim is understandable from the point of view of the population living in the given settlements, but I would also like to point out here that the large trucks will then be more blocked than Hegyeshalom and other border crossing points. Moreover, if we mention the everyday life of my home town and constituency, Sopron and its surroundings, then it is worth mentioning the recently extended border control from the Austrian side, which is supported most by Fidesz's largest Austrian ally and friend, the Austrian Freedom Party. As a result of the policy of the Fidesz city administration, my beloved hometown has become completely unlivable, and because of the hidden internal migration, there are huge rows of carriages waiting daily at the border, both inward and outward, as the majority of the region's population is working in Austria, but no steps have been taken at local or national level in the Burgenland and the Austrian governments to finally lift this border control, which, by the way, can only be applied in a temporary and exceptional emergency between the countries of the Schengen area. This has already been indicated by the leader of the NEOS Party in Burgenland, Eduard Posch, who called on the regional government in Burgenland to stop this practice. I have also personally consulted Mr Posch recently, and I am proposing this to the local city administration and the government, because the lack of management of this issue is fundamentally making everyday life of the inhabitants of the whole Sopron region miserable. Let us finally take action together to resolve this issue. This is why Jobbik is working as a renewed national people's party at both local and national levels. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-10-28-192	Thank you very much, Congressman. How much longer? Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has applied for a speech on the agenda from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-10-28-193	Mr President, Dear House, How much longer? Our series runs in the House of Parliament with a title, the aim of which is to capture at least here, for the sake of the minutes, the amazing, inhumane Calvary of those who have suffered from foreign currency credit. A few years ago, we reported the unfortunate incident where a police lieutenant colonel shot himself in the head, so to speak, because he couldn't pay for his Swiss franck-based housing loan. Later on, a XV. The lady in the district jumped out of her sixth-floor burning apartment, even though she was offered a replacement apartment, yet her life was so impossible because of the various machinations of the amazing bank looting mechanism that she couldn't make it sustainable, and unfortunately, she had to choose a path that couldn't be called a solution. Later, an Óbuda woman was to be evicted. I would like to stress that because of his debt of HUF 1.5 million, his home would have been taken away, his home acquired and owned through generations. But he wouldn't let the bailiffs in, set a fire, and finally cut his own neck. They took him to the hospital, he survived; but thousands, tens of thousands, we can count similar cases. Now, I have recently brought to Parliament the case of a woman who was attacked by two executive gangs, who tried to make the same reimbursable claim, both teams. After losing her child, this old lady lost her grandson, and in the evening in a shopping mall with inventory and other work tried to cough up the amount of debt that was virtually claimed on paper, but even from the small pension that she had received as income, 33 percent and 50 percent of executive bans, which, where appropriate, tried to show on a piece of cheese paper, showed hand-written envelopes that allegedly would support the well-founded nature of the claim. In order to clean up this jungle, Jobbik is preparing a series of submissions. On the one hand, the excesses and various wild game drives of the enforcement system must be stopped, but until this situation is complete, so until this investigation process is completed, it would be absolutely necessary to put the enforcement bans in order. My proposal is this: the income needed for basic maintenance, whether it be a small salary or a small pension, should not be charged with any kind of enforcement ban. If an executor is subject to any legitimate and existing ban on legitimate debts, the maximum amount of income over the amount required for basic maintenance can be extended, and I do not consider a rate above 10 per cent healthy there. [[15.10]] Why am I saying all this? I can say this because, in the last much more than ten years, perhaps, Mr Secretary of State has confirmed it, and my fellow members of the government have also, in a cross-border manner, a series of assassinations that cannot only be pinned on by the current governments, cannot only be put on the hands of the governments before 2010. If you like, there was a great coalition conspiracy, where this looting machine could operate almost undisturbed. I do not dispute the existence of improved submissions, nor that either of them provided temporary air for families, let us think of the National Asset Manager, or even for a period of five years, the exchange rate barrier. But I'm saying it's not systemic because this government didn't want to touch the question. These people received a HUF loan, and their repayment obligation was in HUF. The only fair solution would be to forge so-called loans at the rate of admission. On the other hand, Fidesz-KDNP dumped market-based forints on people; the one who hired it at 160 forints finally had to account for 256 forints. Millions have been unduly lost by families in a climate where these commercial banks are making record profits. During the last period, they were able to put absolute regional record gains above 600 billion on the table and show them in books. That is why we are proposing that the bans should not prevail among the most difficult, so that we give them back concrete and net life opportunities. We don't want palaces, we don't want aid, we want justice. Because justice is not a gift, it is not a question of aid for these people. We are determined to be there for illegal events in the future, trying to help Hungarian citizens get these processes back into the law. But I want them to be able to return to the bottom of the truth. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-10-28-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Tamás Menczer, State Secretary, responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-10-28-195	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I would like to respond briefly to the question raised by you, given that I am representing the Government now, and although this is not primarily a foreign affairs issue, it is extremely important and I know it, because I have heard you speak many times about foreign exchange lending. I fully agree with you that this has been a very serious problem and a challenge. I do not dispute your claim that there are branches to this day. I don't dispute your intention to improve. I think, at least after the agenda, how should I put it, as you have said, let us be so fair to each other, because, as you may have referred to it in your speech, there have been a number of steps taken by the government in recent years to settle foreign exchange lending. Here is the final repayment, the asset manager, the exchange rate barrier, and then the forinting step. You may also have felt dissatisfied with this or welcomed a different systemic solution. At the same time, I believe that this government may not have been so affected by the accusation that it would not have fought many battles against the banks. We can think of the bank tax right here, which had an amazing echo at the time, and there have also been numerous attacks, political and economic attacks on the Hungarian government and Hungary because the Hungarian government has introduced either the bank tax or steps in connection with foreign exchange lending that have made people's lives easier. However, there is, of course, a lot of people who have problems and, of course, have to deal with them. At the same time, I would like to reject what you have said about the fact that a coalition across governments has created this problem. This problem, I believe, and in my view, has been caused and created solely by the irresponsible actions of the Balliberal Government, according to historical experience. And if it is a coalition, then I suggest that you do not support or cooperate in the future, nor engage in a common platform with a party that has created and created this situation. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-10-28-196	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. å Thanks to the Nyíregyházas! Mr Tünde Szabó, from the Fidesz Group, spoke after the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-10-28-197	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, The first word is thanks, thanks to everyone who took part in the municipal elections on 13 October. I would like to thank the voters in Nyíregyháza for voting with a convincing majority in favour of the Fidesz-KDNP party association. As the city's individual parliamentary representative, I also stress that we are committed to continuing the development of our city, and it is worth recalling, without the need for completeness, the improvements that have been made in the past period and the tasks ahead of us, which we have asked for and received from the Nyíregyházas. Last year the reconstruction of the open-air stage in Nyíregyháza was completed from HUF 1.2 billion and Benczúr, Bessenyei Square was renovated, with which an attractive, modern and modern park was established. 32 kindergartens in municipal reserve, 9 kindergartens have been completely renewed, and a new kindergarten has been built with which the number of seats has increased. 14 Ovi-Sport courses were delivered, and the municipality also supports children's swimming and skating education. The city clinic has been completely renewed under two programs, and the emergency department of Jósa András Education Hospital has received a new building at 1400 square meters. As well as the development, the county hospital has also enriched with a new parking garage. At the end of the last year, the Nyíregyházas took possession of the new multifunctional ice hall, with which besides racing and recreational sports, the teachers of physical education were given the opportunity to keep their physical education class in the ice hall. In addition, the energy modernisation of Vasvári Pál High School, Zrínyi High School, museum and municipal buildings has been completely renewed. In addition, the public transport of Nyíregyháza was renewed, for which we could apply environmentally friendly technology solutions, the facilities, roads and settlements were built and 41 modern buses were purchased, all worth HUF 7 billion. Recently, the western bypass road has been completely renewed and handed over, and in the framework of the rehabilitation of the brownfield areas, the Tisavasvár road barracks have been renewed, which increases the possibility of economic development, the development of the business park and the technological centre. The Pangea Hotel was handed over, which was implemented with a grant of HUF 1.6 billion within the framework of the Modern Cities Programme, and it was built in a four-star hotel in the Sosto spa, and the building of the Ozon Hotel and Bencs Villa was renovated to preserve our tourist and cultural heritage. By increasing the quality of life of the inhabitants of Nyíregyháza, road development, circular traffic, parks and promenades were possible, we could build and renovate groves and areas. In recent years we have also handed over the event house within the framework of the development of the Sóstó Museum Village, and the safe bicycle route connecting Nyíregyháza with Tokaj has been completed, with which the city's bicycle path network has reached 71 km. In addition, the renovation of the old Kállay mansion is underway. The indoor swimming pool in Nyíregyháza and the renewable Bathhouse in the Kisfaludy program, the Swiss Lak, will soon be delivered, and we plan to complete the renewal of Krúdy Hotel and the park. We can continue the renovation of the medical offices, the development of the garrison's cultural house, the development and construction of the Athletic Centre in Nyíregyháza, and the development of a new modern stadium arena will be launched soon, with which the tennis court centre of the stadium will be renewed. In addition, a new industrial park will be established to promote international competitiveness. All these improvements have resulted in the city's unemployment rate falling to 4 percent today, which is a huge achievement, as this indicator was 8.5 percent in the 2010s. To conclude, thank you once again for the trust of the Nyíregyházas. In the future, we will continue to serve the people of our city with responsibility and vocation, and that Nyíregyháza is even more livable and the XXI. Let us have a wonderful and attractive city that meets the challenges of the century. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-10-28-198	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, The 1956 Revolution and War of Independence 15th Anniversary of Remembrance came to the post-municipal address. Mr László Hajdu, from the DK Group, with the title of the victims of the district. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[15.20]]
u2019-10-28-199	Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Like everywhere in the country, the 15th. On 23 October we remembered the heroes and victims of the 1956 Revolution and War of Independence, as well as the 30th anniversary of the announcement of the Republic of Hungary. This republic has not been there for eight years, but it was proclaimed on this day. The country remembered, and we remembered in our constituency, Rákospalota, Pestújhely, New Palace. We remembered those who were in the 15th century. Victims in the 15th district they lived in a district at the time when it was only Rákospalota and Pestújhely, since New Palota was only built after that. Remembering is the 15th. In the district, it has been transformed into a tradition in 1956 for 17 years, and thanks to the nice summer time, we have probably produced 1700 serial numbers, and everyone ran in a shirt with the sign "56." 2,000 people signed up for sports, so we're gonna deliver it back to others. I have to say that this tradition, this holiday, has been felt by young people, by families. You could say that they're our Pest boys, and they were celebrating with sport, using leisure time. The district celebrated in traditional places: in 1989 we wreath at the Kopja tree set by a public agreement in the Benő Park of Christmas every year. The memorableness of this Copiac tree is that all the new democratically formed parties were united, and we come here for the first time a year, and we wreath in the spirit of public agreement, forgiveness and remembrance. For years, this robin-tree wreath has been done in a politically divided way, as it has been this year. Fidesz did not participate in this event, nor did it participate in the traditional district wreathing at our memorial place in 56. It's interesting that the governing party has been wreathing separately for years. I would like to list and read here the names of those who are engraved on the marble wall of the cemetery in Rákospalota and the Catholic church in Kossuth Street, who are victims and some who are heroes of the 1956 freedom struggle: József Fekete, 25-year-old electrician; József Attila Nagy, 21-year-old university student; Gyula Morvai, 37-year-old roofing master; László Merk, 19-year-old assistant engineer; Levente Litauszki, 17-year-old machine worker; József Szalai, 16-year-old mechanical technician student; János Bódis, 16-year-old student in mechanical engineering; István Juhász, 42-year-old assistant worker; János Rada, 18-year-year-old MÁV-lakatos; Józözőzőzőszer, 26-year-old electrician; Imre Sző, 30-year-year-year-year-year-older; Fere; Fere; Fere; Fere; Fere; Fere Bó, 32-year-year-year-year-year-year-year-old-old-year-year-Over; Migő; Migő; Mizszászászászászásor; Mizszás, Mér. János Salpauer, 21 years old; Pál Fazekas, Dr., 29 years old; Béla Fleskenstein, age unknown; Albert Vastagh, 19 years old metal sander; József Klics, 28 years old architect; Károly Nyitray, 39 years old glass assistant; Lászlóné Mária Nyilas, 26 years old nurse; László Sinka, 16 years old assistant worker; Gábor István Nagy, 28 years old factory assistant worker. Bless them, peace their memory. Thank you for listening.
u2019-10-28-200	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the autumn session is expected to take place on 4 November 2019. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed. Good night, everyone.
