u2019-10-22-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 2nd day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and László Lukács will be attending the meeting to help me. Welcome, my dear guests, and everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, We will begin our work with speeches before the agenda. Tamás Harangozó, Member of the MSZP Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on the responsibility of the Parliament. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-10-22-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Indeed, Parliament has different types of responsibilities. You could say that he has a very serious political or moral responsibility, and he also has a specific legal responsibility. There has recently been a little more talk about political or moral responsibilities, and there is also a serious debate in society about what is going on here, in the Chamber or at committee meetings. However, perhaps the majority should not be surprised that the usual functioning of the Parliament has ceased to function, since in recent years opposition rights have been restricted, opposition politicians and representatives are publicly humiliated, humiliated, some of their fellow Members and friends by name, and cause illegal or at least immoral advantages and disadvantages to others. So don't be surprised if there is such a thing; as their prime minister, their party president, said, "As God gives, so do you. But that's not what I want to talk about today. [[Németh Szilárd István: It was quite long.]] It is about the specific legal responsibility that this Parliament bears in this case as well. The first session of the autumn session was held yesterday by the Parliament, and at the moment the Hungarian Parliament is in a state of default in two cases. The majority of the Hungarian Parliament is constantly violating laws in two cases, and this condition is unsustainable and scandalous, especially given the issues involved. One is the cleanliness of the election, the important question of democracy, which the Prime Minister stressed very much yesterday, the decision of the Constitutional Court on the electoral law, and the other is a rather meaty and quite amazing story concerning the disabled pensioners. I'd start with the latter. As early as last November, the Constitutional Court decided to review the inhumane procedure with which you have transformed invalid care in 2012. By 31 March 2019 or 31 March of this year, the Constitutional Court set a deadline for this Parliament to put an end to this illegal and inhumane state, and also to compensate our disabled, disabled countrymen whose lives have been miserable in recent years with this law. As a result of this law, tens of thousands of people have made negative changes in their lives, reduced their incomes, or taken away, and otherwise brought them into a completely unmanageable situation. Some of the stakeholders did not give up, stood up for what was right, and went to Strasbourg, where the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg decided that the decision of the Hungarian Government was virtually in conflict with the Convention on Human Rights and violated respect for the most fundamental human rights. Only then did the Hungarian Constitutional Court act and ordered the Hungarian Parliament to do something in this case, in the spring session. We are here now on 22 October, and they have not even included this issue in their legislative plan. At present, it seems that the Hungarian Parliament does not intend to change the lives of these tens of thousands of Hungarian families in the autumn, to compensate them, and in the future to determine the conditions for the disabled. My fellow Members, I would like to stop here for a moment. I was in a family where the elderly couple, thanks to a family tragedy, raised their own children and three grandchildren, and I watched the man with tears, the man who had lost his income by virtue of this law, and he was in despair at home, and he did not know how to raise his four children, his three grandchildren, and his own child. That the woman, the lady, who otherwise looked after them, had to find a job in a small settlement to somehow jump this. What's here is inhuman and must be done immediately! The other question was just decided by the Constitutional Court, in its decision of 10599/2019, at the invitation of the Élje Szekszárd Association, in respect of their unqualified poster law, that the Parliament did not establish rules guaranteeing the exclusion of unjustified and disproportionate restrictions on political advertising, so it must do so by 31 December this year. I call on the government and the Fidesz majority to submit these laws without delay, and they will be adopted by Parliament in the autumn. Thank you for listening.
u2019-10-22-2	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-10-22-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You have started your speech for a long time, honourable Member, by saying that every Member here in Parliament has a responsibility to set an example for his fellow Members, to set an example for those who follow the work of Parliament. Honourable Congressman, When you said those words, you looked down at yourself in the bench, that you were sitting next to Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, who had landed three million Hungarians. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: No!]] And you haven't apologized since? All I had to say was that he apologizes for saying on ATV that there are many Fidesz voters because there are a lot of rats in Hungary. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes. István Szilárd Németh: Yes, you can! Exactly!]] Did you ask him to apologize for that? Yesterday, when Congressman Ákos Hadházy raised a sentence behind your back in the House of Parliament, which I believe neither you nor I would say here in public, then you told him that Ákos, you shouldn't have apologized, that this is not the way to fight for a list of seats for the elections in 22 but perhaps to defend the authority of the Parliament? You guys were squealing and smiling when you lifted this sign, which you wouldn't say at a kindergarten, at a school, but you wouldn't tell me anywhere. Has this resulted in a consequence or responsibility on the opposition side, that neither ratting nor lifting such signs is an unacceptable style for the opposition? Was there a statement like that on your part? Honourable Congressman, It is indeed possible to talk about such responsibility if the opposition would say that this is not a political communication direction acceptable to the opposition. As regards the issue of invalid pensions, honourable Member, you have tabled a motion that has not been accepted by the Constitutional Court and has not said what you have asked to destroy certain sections of the law. Only the Constitutional Court said that the Parliament would establish a regulation for the investigation, even for years. So your motion was not basically accepted by the Constitutional Court, but said that I would not destroy what the opposition is asking, but I would ask the Government to lay down further detailed rules, which are difficult, Mr. honourable Member, because they oblige the legislator to lay down rules that a doctor should be able to establish today how fit to work three or four years ago. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Yes, because you have made such a law!]] [[9.10]] So it's a pretty difficult legal task. [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: The lives of these people are difficult, Mr. Secretary of State... the president is ringing.]] That is why we have said that if the negotiations take place, then we will have a bill that meets the criteria of the rule of law. But what the law that you are attacking has indeed achieved is that employment has increased by 40 percent among the disabled, and all because we have introduced a card that can be replaced by such employment workers, thereby achieving important benefits. The employment of the disabled has not increased by itself; the number of such workers and the number of such employers, who employ people with disabilities, has not increased significantly by themselves, but by this law, and by the benefit that we have introduced. So if what you're asking us to get back to a situation in the area of 2010, then at least 40,000 of the people who are working now would be taken away from their jobs, sent back to the world of aid. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes.]] And they'd reduce your income to fragments. The return to the world of 2010, honourable Member, would mean this, not for tens of thousands of people, but for aid, not for a higher amount, but for a lower amount. Of course, for certain medical examinations and other matters, this legislative task is being continuously examined. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes.]] How to determine, because, you know, you find it difficult to find a doctor who is now responsible for determining someone's health status five years ago. As far as the electoral law is concerned, honourable Member, you have, in general, as you said several times on yesterday's sitting, when you suffer a complete failure in an election, you always consider the electoral law to be wrong. In 2014, it was said that the municipal electoral law, as it is, makes the entire local elections of 14 illegal. Now, when he became left-wing mayor of Budapest under this electoral law, suddenly the municipal electoral law was not illegitimate. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: What are you talking about?...]] What happened in five years? The text of the law is the same, but the result is different; it seems to you that it depends on the result that something legitimate or illegitimate is. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-22-4	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Kocsis-Cake Olivio, from the Group of Dialogue, spoke with the title "On Current Affairs." You have the floor, Congressman. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó towards Dr. Bence Retvári: Shame on you! Dr. Bence Rétvári: The person next to you should be ashamed. The rat guy should be ashamed of himself. And the Hadházy!]]
u2019-10-22-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Originally, I wanted to talk about the lessons of the municipal election, but first, I need to talk about another restriction on the members of the press in Parliament. According to the Dialogue, what they are doing to journalists is totally unacceptable: they are practically banned from the Parliament, from the Office House, locked into barriers, forced into cordons. I speak here in addition to the work of Origo, News TV or Pesti Guys, they have the right to ask the Members of Parliament questions, there are substantive decisions to be made, and the Members of Parliament have the duty to stand in front of the press and make a statement. I know that the Fidesz Members will tell us where similar regulations have been put, in which parliament; this is what we call the Frankenstein legislation that you are doing. They bring in the worst laws, the worst rules in the world, they join them together, and this becomes Frankenstein's legislation. We don't want any of your Frankenstein legislation, either in this case or in any other case. Returning to the municipal election, the message of which is clear: a significant part of the voters do not ask for the overpower of Fidesz and the fact that Fidesz does not use this overpower to build and build the country, but rather to cement its own power and stuff the pockets of the Fidesz-near entrepreneurs. More than 3.5 million voters live in settlements where the opposition mayor or opposition representative body has become a majority. It would be a mistake to punish them. They did this before 2002, they punished Budapest several times, and the result was: they lost the 2002 election. It's hard to figure out what they're planning. After all, before the elections, settlements were repeatedly threatened that there would be no development [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Was he in the meeting yesterday?]] It's not gonna be the agreement that was made earlier. Now, after the elections, the Prime Minister said that they would support whoever was ready to cooperate. The question is, of course, what do you mean, that someone is ready to cooperate; I hope it is not that Fidesz, a man of power, must submit. These Members and these mayors represent and should continue to represent the power of the people. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What does the government represent?]] Allow me to respond to some of yesterday's fidestic statements. Several times, the lie was told that Gergely Christmas began to retreat from her election promises just because she didn't immediately implement all her election promises in a week. Dear fellow Fidesz Members, In a budget year where he did not have a meaningful say in the budget, it is a big deal that he can extend the travel discount for a year, the free BKV, and job seekers can travel for free this year. This is much more than you promised; your election promise was to continue. People from the past are coming back, that's what you're saying. I don't know who you mean. Mártára Naszályi, the dialogue mayor of District I, Gergely Orsi, the II. Mayor of the District or Tamás Soproni [[Dr. Bence Retvári: To Gábor Demszky!]] , the VI. The mayor of the district; are all young, talented politicians considered to be the people of the past? Of course, we know from the press near Fidesz what Gábor Demszky said. But I would like to draw attention to the local government law that you have made: the capital is unable to take credit from itself, so you have to ask permission from the state. In addition, I hear today's news that they are planning to appoint a Budapest minister. We don't want another governor. We don't want another man of power. On the other hand, you guys have actually made a mistake in the campaign. I've been walking the streets of Budapest for several weeks, but I just don't see all those immigrants, refugees or migrants, as you say, who flooded Budapest. You've been campaigning with it, scaring people, so that when you elect the opposition mayors, all the immigrants will be insane. Do you really want to go on campaigning with this crappy, cheap lie? That's what you're trying to win an election with? On the other hand, the mayors and local representatives of the Dialogue would like to build in peace, because it is in the interest of the country and the settlement, which is why, for example, István Tárlós Karácsony has nominated István Tarlós as a civil title, because we can make political gestures against Fidesz. The Dialogue will continue to attempt to suspend evictions from municipal housing in all municipalities where it is represented, to prohibit the application of the slave law, to implement the recommendations of anti-corruption organisations. In Budapest we will create a green corridor from Margaret Island to the coast of Rome, where people can walk and breathe fresh air, and we will open the park to people in Budapest [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] which so far served as a parking lot [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Which one is that?]] And we're gonna open City Hall. Thank you for listening. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2019-10-22-6	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-10-22-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, The internal rules of Parliament do not fall within the competence of the government, and I would like to say to you that it is common throughout the world that an institution, especially when it comes to such an important institution, has its internal rules, protocols, and, as far as I know, when the House has made this decision, it is based on existing and well-functioning examples of Western Europe. I suggest you take a look at the Western European legislation, what rules apply to this type of activity. I would like to assure you that I am sure that the press staff will be free to ask questions until now and beyond. As far as the election is concerned, the voters in the capital have actually decided to entrust Gergely Christmas with the city's leadership. I don't know if you were here yesterday, maybe you weren't here in the afternoon or at a stage, so I would like to repeat what the Prime Minister said that the agreements concluded between István Tarlós and the government are valid, they are valid in letters, and the government is waiting for the decision of the capital to make use of these grants and these opportunities. And the Prime Minister also said that the government, the state from Budapest, has taken over a huge debt of over 200 billion. Because our starting point is that everyone who wants to use his elected position for work, not such a continuous war, can count on the government's support. [[9.20]] I still can't decide, let's say, on the basis of yesterday, what I would like to use your elected position in individual cities for: for further construction, or for such a continuous campaign against the government. What I can tell you is that if you choose a hack campaign, it's not gonna be the cities that own it, it's not really gonna be anybody. In recent times, the government has established a fair relationship with all local governments, which will continue in the future, and there is no relevance for party colors. As for the situation in Budapest: István Tarlós was responsible for pulling Budapest out of bankruptcy after 2010, and perhaps you agree with me on this and became the pride of all of us, and became the pride of Hungary. It is one of Europe's most dynamically developing cities and one of the safest cities, not only do we know that, but also the number of tourists who arrive in the city year after year. On the other hand, the government to which Gergely Christmas worked, among other things, left behind a very mournful Budapest legacy, including a debt of 78 billion BKV, but to be precise, the number that has just come up, the government has paid 217 billion in debt instead of the capital. And to tell you another case about the grieving legacy, the 4th metro case, where it turns out that a large part of the subway money is suspected of corruption. [[Gergely Harvestó: Where is the report?]] From now on, the responsibility of the city's leadership belongs to Gergely Christmas, now she can prove that she can run a city. It is in our best interest not to lead Budapest the way he did to Zuglo, and certainly not as Gábor Demszky did. As for the people of the past, you have mentioned some elected representatives, mayors, if I recall correctly. That's not the problem, Your Honour. The problem is that there was an election, and practically the next day, the people of the past came out. Gábor Demszky clearly said that a loan should be borrowed, that the World Bank should be contacted; that there should be contact with Mr Timmermans, who otherwise attacks Hungary on a systemic level; and that he referred to the possibility of operating a city with privatisation revenues as a well-functioning practice. That's what he's talking about. That's the problem. Then the possibility arose that Mónika Lamperth would be the notary. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Fresh power!]] Amazing! Turns out the team is working like Gál J. Zoltan. Is he the man of the future? No, he's a man of the past, a man of the Gyurcsány-Bajnaian era. And if the press reports are true, he didn't meet these people, he didn't meet them first, he met the mayor-elect, he met Gordon Bajnai. He's a man of the past who's proven himself once, and we of these people, at least we don't want any more of their activities. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-22-8	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, Member of the LMP Group, also spoke before the agenda, with the title of the UN Climate Summit in September and COP 25 in December. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-10-22-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, On 23 September, a climate summit was held in New York on the initiative of the UN Secretary-General, and this climate summit has several messages for individual countries, including Hungary. One of the most important messages is that the accelerated climate change cannot be swept under the rug any longer, the nice and empty words are not enough to give an example, Prime Minister, he has repeatedly said that Hungary is a climate champion, but that action must be taken and action must be taken. It is also important to see that some countries in the world are affected by climate change to varying degrees, and Hungary is unfortunately quite exposed to climate change, and is one of the most sensitive countries in Europe. Donald Tusk, President of the European Council, spoke at the New York Climate Summit, who spoke about the more stringent objectives in the European Union. He stressed that the new Commission leader Ursula von der Leyen's objective is to ensure that the European Union is carbon-free by 2050, with a target to reduce CO2 emissions by 55 percent by 2030. Donald Tusk also highlighted the European Union's desire to play a leading role in combating climate change. By the way, this statement by Donald Tusk is also supported by the meeting held last week by the Finnish Presidency of the EU, which was organised for delegations from the Committees on Sustainable Development and the Environment. At this meeting, the subject was, as appropriate, the EU's more stringent climate targets for 2050 and the need to reduce CO2 emissions by 55 percent by 2030. There we also learned that Denmark announced that it would cut 70% by 2030, Finland 60%. I felt a little bad, because Hungary continues to insist on a reduction of at least 40%. However, we know that since Hungary is particularly sensitive by its geographical location and international and domestic pressures will increase, the government cannot insist on a reduction target of at least 40%. The government must acknowledge that the interest of the Hungarian people is the 55 percent reduction, and Hungary will have to do so by 2030. The question is how Hungary stands, whether the Prime Minister's statement that we are climate champions is really true. The answer is clearly no. The title of climate championship is basically based on two factors, one being that CO2 emissions have now decreased by 32 percent compared to 1990, and 90 percent of electricity will be carbon-free by 2030. Both statements are weak, on the one hand because the Prime Minister does not want to know that the reduction in CO2 in Hungary was 40 percent in 2014, and since then we have lost 8 percent, and if this remains so, we will not even achieve 40 percent by 2030. But there is also a problem with the other statement, namely that 90 percent will be CO2-free by 2030, because there are three statements to this end: we will multiply solar power capacity, we will complete the energy recovery of coal and we will expand nuclear power plant production. Yesterday, I also told the Prime Minister that ten times the increase in solar power capacity is virtually limited, almost nothing, 0.5 percent of the solar power capacity in electricity use today. And has the government renounced the exploitation of coal and other fossil assets? None of them. Last year, the government decided to expand the mines, reopen them, and announce applications for fossil assets. The situation needs to be changed, so we expect the government to declare the climate crisis, take steps to start the development of the climate law in Hungary and Hungary to join the European Union's more stringent climate objectives. Thank you very much.
u2019-10-22-10	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Tamás Schanda wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-10-22-11	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It is very important for Hungary to protect the environment and fight climate change, because we all want clean water, cleaner air and a more bearable climate. We agree with the importance, urgency and Hungarian involvement in the fight against climate change. Accordingly, we are actively involved in international and EU climate negotiations, and the measures taken and planned are taken accordingly. Common EU climate policy commitments to the international community up to 2030 are currently being applied to individual European Member States through the finalisation of national energy and climate plans. In parallel with the preparation of the NECT, the national energy strategy is being renewed and the long-term Hungarian climate strategy is being developed. We are thinking about a customer-centred energy strategy, which continues to focus on the security of domestic energy supply, but also aims at climate-friendly transformation of the energy sector. [[9.30]] Dr. János Áder, President of the Republic, presented Hungary's achievements and goals clearly and clearly at the New York Climate Summit. Hungary is one of the best performing countries in international comparison, responsible for only 0.1 percent of global emissions. Our per capita emissions are one of the lowest among industrialised countries; just one example: the US, for example, is three and a half times the Hungarian. And we are in the first third of the European countries. Sustainability can also be seen in our economic achievements. As you have said, since 1990 we have reduced greenhouse gas emissions by some 32 percent, so that our energy consumption has also decreased, but our economic performance has increased significantly during this period. Based on preliminary data, GDP increased by 5.2 percent last year with a 0.6 percent reduction in emissions. This is the Hungarian model. As you say, we must act and act. Under these conditions, Hungary can now be one of the most dynamically growing economies in the Union. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In the medium term, the government aims to ensure that the majority of Hungarian electricity generation comes from two sources: nuclear energy and renewable energy, mainly solar power plants. These are not technologies that trigger or exclude each other, but solutions that support each other, and both can be considered as clean energy sources. Our aim is to ensure that by 2030 90 percent of Hungarian electricity production will be carbon- and carbon-neutral with the combined use of solar and nuclear power. Measures have been taken to improve the energy efficiency of residential buildings and households, and renewable energy systems have also been set up by the government as a home heat program. Thanks to the programme, 310,000 households have had energy upgrades, resulting in a reduction in CO2 emissions in Hungary by 130 thousand tonnes per year. In order to reduce pollution from transport, the government is trying to spread electromobility as much as possible. In one year, the number of cars with green plates, i.e. partly or fully electric, almost doubled in our country. While last October only 8000 were in circulation, there are now more than 14,500. By the end of 2018, almost 200 electric charging stations were established thanks to government subsidies. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and All you guys know is alarm and fake news. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: Yikes!]] They're trying to draw attention from their party's crisis with sound passwords. [[Gergely Harvester's intervention.]] [[Gergely Harvester's intervention.]] Just because they're getting louder doesn't mean they're doing anything to fight climate change, to preserve the Carpathian Basin and our planet. (Gergely Harvester's intervention. ) I can assure you that the government has the necessary seriousness and expertise to protect our environment, and will take appropriate measures on both domestic and international grounds to develop and consolidate a sustainable framework for development. We believe in local responsibility at our own level, in our own environment, in our own settlement, in our own country, we can do the most to save our planet. We are responsible for each other, for our future, for the created world. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] With that in mind, we act, and we do not speak ill of it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-22-12	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech. When will the Hungarian youth become more important than the foreigner? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-10-22-13	Mr President, Dear House, The government is working rhetorically well against migratory pressure, although we see that the source is sometimes very misguided, and while, once again, it sets a rhetorically correct goal, it makes a triple scam in the realm of reality. Triple scam, because he has installed more than 100,000 migrant workers and foreign workers in Hungary in recent years. Secondly, along with the establishment bond structure, he provided the anteroom of Hungarian citizenship for money to a large number of foreigners who could pose a national security risk, by paying for it in a net way. Thirdly, this government tolerates an invasion by foreign investors in the Hungarian housing market, and according to which the number of foreign owners in the housing market ran up by 2017-18, and there were even twice as many non-EU buyers in 2018 as there were four years earlier. Thus, under the Orbán governments, the group of people who bought a mass, thousands of real estate outside the EU expanded, doubled, and the situation was that 8.8 percent of all the apartments sold in Budapest were already owned by foreigners. Annex VI, VII, VIII is replaced by the following: The situation is particularly serious in district IX. We could talk about the district, but in the V. district, one third of the housing turnover has already been represented by foreigners, and two thirds remain only for Hungarians. It can be said that this results in a number of negative processes. Besides, very few newly built properties and apartments are transferred, so the property is very slow to turn around, but due to the continuous narrowing of the supply side, Airbnb, foreign apartment purchases, the release of rent prices is even harder in the inner districts than elsewhere. What did the government do? Have you introduced a housing support scheme? No. He acknowledged that this problem exists here in Parliament, that in the inner districts of Budapest there has been more than 60 percent increase in rents in a few years; that there is a district in Budapest where this amount has tripled within a decade? What has the Government of Hungary done? Nothing. He told Hungarian young people, people living in the apartments and renters that this problem does not exist, and if you do not like it, you can leave here, typically forced to work abroad and abroad. A housing support scheme is included in Jobbik's programme, according to which we would examine the average rental fee of the district concerned, the income of the family and household concerned, and on the basis of a multiplier, those affected who were in this situation without their own fault would be entitled to housing allowances between 20 and 50 thousand forints per month. I would also like to say that although the idea of taxing from the opposition is a very rare and not so fashionable genre, we could still imagine a tax type. This is a type of special tax imposed by foreigners on the purchase of real estate, which, where appropriate, capacitates the seller to try to sell his property in the internal market rather than to sell it to Hungarian citizens. And the income of this special tax would be spent only and only, if you like, on the construction of the mass of rent apartments in a strap-blown way, on the construction of rent apartments in which Hungarian young, middle-aged or old people can move in for half the market price. We would pay particular attention to our fellow countrymen in the national strategy sectors, and therefore to our fellow countrymen who care for our children and teach them in health care. I would also like to tell you that after a few years of peaceful living together, these apartments should be available for purchase, and it should be possible for Hungary to own the housing crisis, so that we can resolve the housing crisis, so that an average Hungarian youth who completes the university can reach a single home within a reasonable time. The CSOK, which, although supported by me, tends to grant loans rather than, let's say, the total support mass for the real estate used, Mr. Secretary of State, would provide the total support mass rather than such a small part. I'm sure it didn't help that you guys are fully committed to the state leg and state support of the condo. They have eliminated the saving opportunity that was sufficient for a large number of our compatriots for the CSOK's part, and the only possible way to collect it. So you've set out to do this. We say that the Hungarian future cannot be in opposition, so we must open up these possibilities of life, but until a Hungarian youth sees the real roads, a large number of apartments must be made available so that anyone who wants to can thrive in his home country, in Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-10-22-14	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister, responds. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Minister.
u2019-10-22-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The government, unlike Jobbik's policy, does not want tax increases. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Who said anything about a tax increase?]] solving problems [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: There was no tax increase.]] [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: There was no tax increase.]] but with real support and real (Dániel Z. Kárpát: There was no tax increase. ) with systematic and long-term solutions. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: Vietnamese buy the apartments. The president's ringing the bell.]] The government, unlike Jobbik's policy, would not send people to rented homes, but would create conditions for Hungarian people, Hungarian people and Hungarian families to have their own apartments. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: It's not true.]] [[9.40]] Because Hungarian people like to live in their own apartments [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That is not true either!]] And not in someone else's apartment. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And not rent, pay rent for the rest of his life. That is why the government has developed a system of family home-building benefits, which is already in operation, which has entered into force. By the end of August 2019 114 thousand applications were received [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: But this is not about them. Three million Hungarians!]] , worth approximately HUF 340 billion. There is a special discount for the three-year-olds, 83 percent of them take advantage of the preferential housing loan. The amount of credit requests received exceeds HUF 180 billion. The tax refund aid for the cost of housing construction was also used by 14 thousand families. The family protection program continued to expand as of 1 July. The government aims to remove obstacles to the self-starting, existentialisation of young Hungarians, and to promote their plans to start a family and have children. That is why he introduced the baby shower support scheme, which means a discount loan of HUF 10 million for married people under 41. Retirement depends on how the number of children in the family evolves and there is a discount. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Answer the question!]] Thank you very much for constantly commenting on the government's agenda. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Answer the question!]] You just said you agree with this system. Then please listen to what's in here. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: But there were specific questions, not answers.]] The support scheme is also very often spent by these families to finance housing goals. 32,000 such loan contracts were concluded, while the village CSOK has received a request of some HUF 8 billion. But the government also pays attention to those who need temporary housing for their work or studies. This is why he has developed the workstation renovation and design program, which is constantly expanding. Between 2017-19, 25 applicants created nearly 4,000 seats in the amount of HUF 10 billion, which they later expanded and made even more accessible with discounts, and according to point 8 of the Economic Action Plan, companies can now claim the necessary support for the construction of work accommodation. A new tender was announced on 10 October with a budget of HUF 5 billion. The government also supports the development and creation of apartments through tax incentives. For example, you can deduct the amount from the corporate tax base for the maintenance and operation of working accommodation. At the district offices, however, you can also apply for so-called housing allowance, which has so far been used by about 10,000 people. And as far as rent is concerned, here the government tried to stimulate the supply by abolishing the health contribution. This tax discount has been used by many private owners. And I can only conclude by saying that you are fully integrated with the left-wing parties, because the tax increase policy is entirely [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Don't be ridiculous! Don't humiliate yourself. We don't install hundreds of thousands of migrants. Intercoms. The president's ringing several times.]] the politics of the left-wing parties, and you, as their party, are now completely saying what the socialists otherwise say. [[The president's ringing again.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Dániel Z. Kárpát: How poor this answer is! Dr. Brenner Koloman: Shame, shame! Turning to the benches of Jobbik:]] Don't be a professional. Don't be a professional.
u2019-10-22-16	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, At the same time, Mr Gergely Arató, Member of the DK Group, spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-10-22-17	Thank you very much. Dear House, Half the country was wondering what the life form announced by Viktor Orbán, built on the ideal of Christian freedom, could mean. In DK, knowing your use of words and your relationship to reality, we were sure that it had nothing to do with Christianity and freedom, but we wondered a lot about the deep and higher life that the Prime Minister has offered us. Now we know! The answer was given to us and the country by your mayor in Győr, Zsolt Borkai. From the news and videos, it seems that Christian freedom is to steal one's own town as a fidesz mayor and to party with prostitutes on foreign luxury yachts, while eating plains, Black Pako, and other mind-alterers. Now we understand why your Christian lifestyle requires so much EU money, so many castles, so many yachts, so many helicopters and private jets. Now we understand why they talk so much before every election about the opposition threatening your way of life and culture. You are obviously doing exactly the same from Győr to Debrecen, from mayor to minister, what Mr Borkai did. That's what connects you, this higher life, which you can speak so much of. This is what they fear before every election, so that they do not have to leave the ladies who are dependent on EU money. It's the truth! I am very sorry for the wives and families of fidesz politicians, because what we saw by Zsolt Borkai is unworthy of any family. And that's why the private property, the sports car, the fake job, the apartment doesn't make up for it. You can tell me why I'm talking about personal matters, but remember, it's you who dragged all this into daily politics. You're the one who wants to tell us who might consider you family. You want to tell me who, when and how many children you have to have. You want to tell me what the principle of which sex is and what normal love is. For years, we have been listening to these self-righteous, privacy-interrupting revelations, including here, within these walls. Well, now, allow me to express my opinion on this. We in the Democratic Coalition do not want to tell anyone what their private life should be and how to live, but we do not consider it part of a healthy family life. Prime Minister! It's not for video. It's for doing it. And you know what's even sicker? Stealing the city and the country, doing cocaine, organizing an international pleasure girl meeting, and then preaching morality, family, and Christianity. Now, that's really sick. And I'm not just talking about Borka! And don't say they're so wow, but they're very upset about what Zsolt Borkai did. Don't tell me, because you didn't even exclude him from the party, let alone give up the mayor's office. When they realized the political damage they could do if people found out who you really are and how you live, they asked their friend Borkai to step out of Fidesz at least formally, although it was only for the second time. But, of course, no hard feelings. This will still lead Győr in cooperation with Fidesz and Borkai, and if it's up to you, the loss of public money in the city could continue without delay. It would have been a nicer and more talkative reaction if they had tried to explain the unexplainable. Let us say that the women on the ship were baptized and even waged that the cocaine had been consecrated by the diocese, and that the trip took place last year at Pentecost, so they celebrated in the spirit of Christian freedom. You were so soft with Zsolt Borkai because none of you actually condemns what you did. You don't have a problem with stealing, you don't have a problem with corruption, you don't have a problem with prostitutes. It's perfectly all right for you, these are the attributes of the Fidesz elite. You've got a problem with being caught. That's embarrassing, not giving me the titty! Let's just say you're fake Christians. You hypocrites are helicopter Christians who want to squeeze votes out of the cross just as they do the national flag. And now I'm gonna have one of those regular secretary of state standing up to protect Christianity from me. Don't do it! Christianity, the people who believe, must be protected from you! From those who make it a political product and use the faith of others as a blanket of their own despicableness. If you still don't understand what I'm talking about, skip chapter 21 of Matthew's Gospel. There is a story where Jesus cleanses the temple of the Lord from the cupcakes, saying, "It is written, "My house is called a house of prayer, and you make it a cave of robbers." [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] [[9.50]] In this story, you're the dealers, you're the robbers. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2019-10-22-18	Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Bence Tuzson wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-10-22-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, People are always surprised here in the House of Parliament, although they should not be surprised, especially if a DK representative tries to teach morals to anyone, because remember, it was you, your government, who carried out the most corrupt government, who were the most corrupt in all aspects. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: They were growing up to them!]] And the corruption case of the century, the subway case, I don't think I have to stress that much during your time, with your cooperation. It was you. [[Gergely Harvestó: Where is the investigation in this case?]] You were the ones who finally admitted to lying, lying, and keeping the whole country a lie. It was you who used violence against the Hungarian people. It was you who led the police out and knocked out people's eyes, beat up MPs. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: You have not been counted! There's not a single chief of police behind bars.]] Do you have any grounds to lecture anyone morally? Do you feel any basis for this? They destroyed their own party, the MSZP! Look at the current election results. Based on the current election results, the Fidesz-KDNP Association has won the election in the country, and we thank the 51 percent who voted for us in this election. However, the party whose president was Ferenc Gyurcsány, let's say in Pest County, the former president of the MSZP, who launched the MSZP on the slope, did not even make it to the Pest County Assembly, reached 5 percent. For this election, let's say the big loser in Pest County is your party, DK. It's your party, because a party out of parliament that doesn't even show up, the Momentum, has beaten you in an incredible way. I can't believe he beat you guys. While Fidesz-KDNP has received more than 50 percent in Pest County, your party is also in Pest County. [[Gergely Harvesto: Five less than last time!]] It reached eleven percent with, by the way, more than one third of this being given to a party outside Parliament. They should understand that this moral education and this moral attitude will lead to the fact that this party will have to be pulled down. Your party will disappear. There's a changing atmosphere within the opposition. [[Gergely Arató, laughing: We are the strongest opposition party, Mr. Secretary of State, good morning.]] That's what you should understand. Momentum appears and arrives as a new opposition party. Accordingly, moral instruction cannot be accepted from you today or in the past. We are the ones who are closing these questions. [[Gergely Arató: Borkai is still mayor, isn't he?]] The Prime Minister has been absolutely distinct from any such action. That man is not a member of the Fidesz-KDNP today. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: Manage Győr together!]] On our part, this case is closed. There's a wall, we're on one side of the wall, and on the other side of the wall are those who do that. [[Gergely Harvesto: Put the money under the wall!]] You're supposed to be like that. Don't forget what happened in Kispest. In Kispesten, a municipal representative from your ranks, from the left, is talking about making a hundred million forints? A hundred million forints? Much more than the councilman's fee? All this at a party that's a real drug party, can you talk to each other about it? And is this man still on the left? There's no separation on your part? [[Gergely Harvesto: That's not true! That's just not true!]] You're gonna take over this whole plot? This is because you have been like this in the past, in the present, and will continue to be like this in the future. That's what we can expect from you, such an attitude. It's natural on your side. And what happens on the left, on the other side, on the opposition side? [[Gergely Arató: You have learned nothing from the results of Budapest!]] Everything that belongs to each other simply grows together: Jobbik, MSZP, DK, DK, from which Jobbik had previously been completely separated and formed a single community [[Intercoms from Jobbik: That's why you're going down! It's impertinent of you to do that. When will there be a new election in Győr? When are you gonna stop doing that?]] He's starting to form a community. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Insolence!]] a community that we now consider as an opposition community. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Shame on you! You're fake Christians and fake Democrats!]] They can't even do that in Budapest. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell. Intercoms from Jobbik: You're fake Christians, fake Democrats! You're protecting Borkai!]] Nor are they able to make a candidate of their own, but they are launching a candidate of a smallest party for mayor. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: You're a fake Democrat!]] It is important and I consider it essential [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: You're Communists! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I believe that it is a fundamental issue for you to put order in order, and it is your duty to put order in the ranks of the opposition, to deal with corruption cases of the opposition. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Don't Support Borkai!]] Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-10-22-20	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament, KDNP Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on the current challenges facing the WTO. You have the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2019-10-22-21	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! The World Trade Organisation, which was the successor of GATT, was established in 1995 as the depositary of open and non-discriminatory international trade based on rules, which has successfully integrated most of the world's countries into its regulated world trade system. However, the recently completed 2019 public forum has already indicated that there is a problem with the functioning of the WTO, perhaps some have also said so and were close to reality, that it is experiencing the world's biggest crisis, one of the main causes of which is the shift of global economic centres. The global economic share of developing countries and, in particular, China has increased dramatically over the last thirty years. China's new economic development plan and state aid have given it a leading role in the world economy, especially in the markets of information technology, robotics, self-driving and electric cars. The United States of America is experiencing this as a geopolitical challenge which threatens its national economy and its position in the world economy and its political influence. The World Trade Organisation has become one of the battlefields of this slowly expanding trade war, as the US considers that the WTO rules and dispute settlement mechanism cannot curb China's state capitalistic trade practices distorting international markets. In response to these challenges, the WTO organizational reform started in autumn 2018, one of the main objectives of which is to ensure the resolution of the US trade conflict with China within the framework of a versatile trading system. The first pillar of modernisation efforts is the resolution of the crisis in relation to the WTO dispute resolution mechanism. At present, the United States is blocking the appointment of new members of the appeal body, which represents the second stage of dispute resolution, because it considers that the panel's decisions are not capable of ensuring free trade and preventing the payment of market-distorting State aid granted by China. The second pillar of modernisation efforts is the revision of WTO rules. The transformation of the world economy has not been followed in everything by regulatory reform. Unfortunately, many countries are members of the WTO, which were still a developing country when they were recruited, and many of them have caught up with world leaders in their development. The United States would exclude thirty such developing countries from the circle of support. By reviewing the benefits, the EU also considers the possibility of special treatment tailored to real needs to be justified. The third pillar of modernisation is to improve the efficiency of the organisation, to make the trade policy of its members more transparent, which is now underway. The challenge of the reform process is whether, in future, the WTO will be able to maintain its prominent role in regulating world trade. In the event of the failure of the modernisation efforts, the trade world system has been divided into conflicting large trade blocs, which, by making a significant distinction against each other's goods and services, can increase the cost of commercial transactions between each block and favour unilateral criminal measures instead of institutional resolution of disputes. [[10.00]] This can have a particularly negative impact on countries such as Hungary, whose economy is particularly embedded in international supply chains. For Hungary, therefore, a predictable and open international trade system based on rules is important as an export-oriented open economy. We therefore support the strengthening of the WTO, its organisational reform, the resolution of the dispute resolution crisis and the reform of the rule system. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-10-22-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Tamás Vargha wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-10-22-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The negative trade policy processes that have taken place in recent years, the most serious focal points of which are the trade tensions between the United States, China and the European Union, as well as its consequences for the multilateral trading system, so the negative trade policy processes also give the government serious concern and have made the importance of the World Trade Organisation, the WTO, even more evident to us. Hungary, mainly due to its high degree of integration into global value chains in automotive and electronics, is particularly exposed to international trade processes. As an export-oriented economy, an open, predictable and transparent multilateral trading system based on rules is vital for Hungary, guaranteed by the WTO and its dispute resolution function to ensure compliance, and therefore supports WTO reform with all available instruments of the government. In response to the WTO crisis which has been more serious than ever, discussions on the organisation's reform started in the summer of 2018, in which the European Union plays a leading role in all areas. The European Commission's package of proposals, drawn up in cooperation with EU Member States, including Hungary, proposes action in four areas. First, it proposes to address the crisis with regard to the WTO appeal body, which aims to address the US' concerns about the functioning of the appeal body. It also proposes to revise or supplement the current WTO rules. It would also ensure flexibility from the application of the rules, so-called special and differentiated treatment, along the real and verifiable needs of each developing country. Finally, it also aims to increase the transparency of WTO trade policy and to ensure compliance with the notification obligations. The modernisation ideas of the European Union are also intended to address the US's trade concerns with China within the multilateral trading system. It is important to see that WTO modernisation and all trade regulatory problems depend on the US-China-European Union triangle. As long as there is no solution in this triangle, there is no progress on the modernisation of the WTO. In the last 20 years, especially after the accession of China to the WTO in 2001, a shift in focus has started in the world economy from two sides of the Atlantic, given that a new economic centre has come and is gradually being created in Asia. President Trump's administration intends to put his trade policy ideas on a new footing, partly driven by internal policy, partly geopolitical, and not least by security policy considerations, not without protectionist or mercantile elements. The US represents the doctrine that today's wars are fought by economic, geoeconomic means. At times, there is a need to prepare for declining but lasting trade tensions, which will have an ongoing impact on the WTO, the only multilateral forum for international trade regulation. If the negotiations result in agreements with sufficient ambition supported by a wide range of WTO members, the WTO will continue to be a key player in international economic relations. The government is actively following the negotiation processes of WTO modernisation and contributes to the development of the EU position in Brussels, both in EU fora and in Geneva, and is involved in the development of EU proposals, representing and enforcing Hungarian interests. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-10-22-24	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr László Böröcz, Member of the Fidesz Group, has applied for a pre-meeting address on current affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-10-22-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about three things in my speech before the agenda. All three things are interrelated and are particularly important for Hungary. One is the protection of the family, the other is the protection of the economy, and the third is the programme of the Hungarian village, because all the topics are related: the protection of the family is obviously of particular importance for the future of the country; the Hungarian village programme is important for maintaining the population of the region; and the protection of the economy is important for us to be able to finance them all. First, I would like to say a few words about family protection, because, as I said, this is the key to our future, we have to think about our country in the long term and responsibly, so, of course, Hungarian people must be given the opportunity that if they want to start a family, the additional burden, plus the financial burden, will be supported by the government. Therefore, whether the Hungarian families want to have one, two, or three or more children, the Hungarian government is doing everything in its power, and the Fidesz-KDNP fraction supports these families to live in a predictable, predictable family support system. This year, with the support of the Fidesz-KDNP fraction, the government further strengthened the existing family policy measures, within the framework of a 7-point family protection action plan, of which 4 points already entered into force in July this year, the baby shower support, the extended CSOK loan, a greater reduction in the housing loan for families with children, support for the car purchase of large families. Baby shower support represents a HUF 10 million loan for family members, which can be converted into a subsidised non-refundable loan or even an interest-free loan. The extension of the CSOK loan means that, contrary to what has already been used, a preferential interest rate loan for CSOK can also be accepted. A larger reduction in the housing loan for families with children means that we have extended the range and number of people who are entitled to a mortgage reduction, as we have reduced the mortgage by HUF 1 million for families with one or two children, with a HUF 4 million for families with three children, and with each additional child born, plus HUF 1 million. Car shopping support for large family members is HUF 2.5 million in non-refundable support for families where at least four parents have taken on a child. In January, further measures will be put in place, three out of the seven points, the cradle development programme, the four or more parents' absence, and the grandparents' children. Here, under the cradle development program, we will increase the number of cradle seats by 20,000, creating about 70,000 seats. The budgetary coverage of the measures is ensured, as Parliament has already decided on this. These measures amount to approximately HUF 650 billion in funding already received by the Hungarian families, and the Fidesz faction is ready to further expand the support of these children's families in terms of the future, and the performance of the Hungarian economy is an opportunity to do so. And here we have come to the second point, the protection of the economy, because in order to be able to continue the measures and support the Hungarian families, it is essential that we create a stable economic environment and continue to pursue a sustainable, value- and family-oriented social policy in the long term. The Hungarian economy is performing well, but there are also signs of crisis in the euro area, which is why we launched the economic protection action plan in spring. [[10.10]] The action plan consists of 13+1 points and aims at keeping the growth of the Hungarian economy at least 2 percentage points above the average growth of the Union, while maintaining economic growth must also be the basis for job creation and further wage increases. My third and final topic is the Hungarian village programme. I would like to share a few more thoughts about this with you. We would also like to strengthen the Hungarian villages so that the village is the same civilizational community as the city. In order to do this, it is necessary to stop the village population from losing weight and to repair the villages. This year we spent a total of HUF 150 billion on this. Within the framework of the Hungarian village programme, settlements of less than five thousand people can participate in these tender schemes and more than ten thousand applications have been submitted by the municipalities and more than 96 percent of the eligible municipalities have applied for the various sub-programmes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-22-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Bence Tuzson wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-10-22-27	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, You know, we have a common social goal which, I think, should be the social goal of all of us, namely that Hungary should be among the five states of Europe in the coming years, until 2030, where it is best to live. And indeed, to achieve this, there are areas where progress is needed. This is the question of supporting families and families. Let's strengthen the Hungarian families! And why is that necessary? Because a society is a strong society, if its smallest unity, the smallest unit of self-care, the family is a strong community, because only strong communities can build a strong larger community, a strong church community, a strong village, a strong city, a strong county and a strong country. That is why it is important to help families in every way. That's why the family protection plan is important. Without the help and support of families, Hungary will never, ever be a strong country. We must help Hungarian people to have children, so that we can give some kind of help to the responsibility that we all feel as parents. Yes, perhaps the greatest and most important help is our support system for home creation, which is about ensuring that every Hungarian family has a home in which they like to live and in which they enjoy living. This is what the home creation system is about, and that is what the CSOK system is about, and it is related to this, and this is a very important issue for the village CSOK and our program that can support the village, the Hungarian village. Because there cannot be a situation where in Hungary there are two types of citizens depending on where they were born, born in a city, or born in a village. There can't be much more opportunities for a man living in a city than for a man living in a village. Therefore, we must strive to raise the village, the Hungarian village, not a question of quality of life, but a question of lifestyle. Therefore, it is necessary to support the villages, indeed, in the program of the Hungarian village with HUF 150 billion this year, and all this will continue in the coming years, the Hungarian village will be raised in order to achieve all the services of the state, but also to achieve all the services of the market and culture. The area where we still need progress is indeed the area of the economy. Our economic growth is outstanding in Europe. However, we must strive to be constantly above the European average, because we must sooner or later reach Western European states, which have a better past than we have. The Hungarian economy is growing, but in order for a country to be able to speak its own language, it is necessary to have a strong economic background. A country which does not have sufficient economic power speaks in the language of other countries, speaks in the language of international organisations, or speaks in the language of large multinational companies. This has to be avoided. We Hungary must speak in our own voice, in our own interests and in our own language. Hungary can be strong if we are able to do so, and Hungary has been able to do so recently, and it seems that Hungary's international weight and international authority has increased significantly in recent years. This area is still a question of culture. Because what is the value of a growing family, what is the value of a growing population, and what is the value of economic growth if the country is not able to maintain its cultural identity, to strengthen its culture? We must also strive to make progress in this area, strengthening culture, strengthening and developing our Hungarian language. If we can move forward in all three areas, in the field of economic development, support for families and culture development, we can join forces, then Hungary will indeed become one of the best countries in Europe by 2030. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-22-28	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Dear Parliament, The general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the publication of state-approved certificates and diplomas issued in Hungary and the Republic of Serbia and the draft law on the publication of the Convention on the Mutual Recognition of Evidence of Scientific Degrees until closure. The government referral is T/7687. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, author of the item on the agenda. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2019-10-22-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, The Convention was signed at the Hungarian-Serbian government summit on 15 April 2019. The aim of the signing of the Convention is to ensure the mutual recognition of secondary and higher education degrees, qualifications and academic degrees in relation to the two countries, and to develop cooperation opportunities between Hungarian and Serbian higher education institutions in line with the government's Balkan opening policy, thereby strengthening Hungarian-Serbian relations. The Convention contributes to the promotion and development of educational, scientific and cultural relations between countries, improving the country's competitiveness in the long term, as the foreign student and researcher, who are studying in Hungary, can become a key external economic contact point for our country over time. The participation of foreign students and researchers in Hungarian higher education and scientific life brings economic, scientific benefits and country image improvement opportunities. The agreement significantly improves the mobility of Hungarian students both outward and Serbian students to Hungary. It is also expected to facilitate the employment of professionals with Hungarian or Serbian higher or secondary education in partner countries. We would like to emphasise the national political and national policy aspects of the convention, as it also helps to learn and employ members of the Hungarian and Hungarian Serb communities in the mother country. On 7 March 1980, the Convention in force between the two countries on the mutual recognition of certificates of formal qualifications and the equivalence of diplomas was signed by the Hungarian People's Republic on the one hand and Yugoslavia on the other. Since its publication, significant social and political changes have taken place in both countries, in the education system of our countries, and have justified the conclusion of a new convention. I call on the honourable Parliament to discuss and support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]] [[10.20]]
u2019-10-22-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-10-22-31	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, In March 1980, representatives of the Hungarian People's Republic and the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia sat down with each other to sign the Education Agreement between the two countries. Since then, the situation in the two countries and the international system has changed considerably. Fortunately, we are pleased to say that Hungarian-Serbian relations have evolved in a positive direction, and, as Minister Péter Szijjártó said, they have reached an historic height. Consider infrastructure developments, investments, border crossing points or even legal and cultural cooperation, the situation of the Hungarian community in Vojvodina. These all prove that a mutually beneficial, close strategic partnership has now been established between Serbia and Hungary. Moreover, I think it is not an exaggeration to say that the importance of excellent Hungarian-Serbian relations is growing beyond the two countries, because this strong neighbourly relationship can even be the gateway to European integration throughout the region, even if at present great forces are trying to make this impossible. If the Union wants to remain credible, it has no choice but to open the way for enlargement in the Western Balkans. In the meantime, our job here in Hungary is to continue to help Serbia's European integration, regardless of Brussels' political manoeuvre. Speaking of integration, I believe culture and education are one of the flagships of this process. Not to mention that the fewer obstacles to the free movement of cultural and intellectual goods, the more secure Hungarian-Serbian friendship will be. The modernisation of this convention will therefore benefit both parties. Last and last but not least, the entry into force of the new treaty for our Hungarian brothers in Vojvodina is of paramount importance, whether it be high school students who want to go to university in Hungary or about workers who would like to use their knowledge acquired here in Serbia, or whether these questions are true in reverse relations. With all due respect, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the legislation on the publication of the convention before us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the ranks of governing parties and ethnic advocates.]]
u2019-10-22-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Steinmetz, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, who wishes to give his speech on the pulpit. Here you go, Congressman. [[Dr. Ádám Steinmetz enters the speaker's stand.]]
u2019-10-22-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out in advance that Serbia is a prominent relation for Hungary, our common history and our extensive economic and cultural relations with our neighbours. I trust that Serbia will soon become a member of the European Union, which Hungary needs to support under certain conditions. The one in front of us, T/7687. A legislative proposal or a convention strengthens our relations in the fields of education and science. It covers certificates and diplomas recognised by the State by Hungary and the Republic of Serbia, documentary evidence of scientific degree, and studies carried out in the framework of training of higher education institutions, such as semesters, credits and examination certificates. And I think it is necessary to say that the documents issued after the entry into force of the Convention will be recognised as equivalent by the two countries. The adoption of the Convention contributes greatly to the expansion of education and scientific relations between the two countries, promoting the international mobility of Hungarian students to Serbia and Serbia, including the Hungarian students in Vojvodina. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is a significant Hungarian minority in the Republic of Serbia, especially in the area of Vojvodina, as well as a well-known Hungarian minority for you, and for our brothers living across the border, this convention will make it easier to participate in higher education, to obtain a diploma, to recognise their existing degrees and, ultimately, to work in Hungary. I also consider it important to mention that, pursuant to Article 12 (2), the Convention may be terminated by any of the parties at a later stage, seeing the practice of this Convention and the achievement of its objectives and its quality. In conclusion, in agreement with the provisions of the Convention, I will propose its adoption to the Jobbik fraction. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-10-22-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-10-22-35	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, as the Secretary of State and the speakers before me have made it clear in detail, I would therefore refrain from repeating it, but rightly and well-spoken when talking about the importance of this convention from a national political point of view or from a good neighbourly point of view. Therefore, of course, the Hungarian Socialist Party's faction will also support this proposal. My fellow Member, Mr Zsigmond, has raised another very important aspect, although it is not closely related to the subject, but it is worth mentioning and strengthening, and that is that indeed, the issue of the Western Balkans has been removed from the EU enlargement table, which is a fatal mistake, a strategic error by the EU leaders. And perhaps we have a job and a task to draw the attention of my fellow Members in Western Europe and other Member States, either in the European Union or in NATO. For this reason, for my part, I am president of the committee in which I took the lead, in NATO, one of the most important departures of the following year will take place in the direction of the Western Balkans, so that we also draw the attention of our colleagues to the fact that there is still something to be done in this respect. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-10-22-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Since no one wanted to make use of a two-minute speaking opportunity, it is now possible to make further speeches. I'm asking if anyone wants to take this opportunity. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. As no further contributions were made, the general debate is closed. I'll ask Secretary Bence Rétvári if he wants to respond. [[On Dr. Bence Rétvári's mark:]] Secretary of State says he doesn't want to react. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill on the amendment of laws relating to the provision of housing for natural persons participating in the National Asset Management Programme will follow. The government referral is T/7700. Number 1 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs in relation to national wealth, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2019-10-22-37	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, By submitting the bill, the government aims to provide further assistance in creating homes and to provide protection for families participating in the National Asset Management Programme. Thanks to the programme, more than 150,000 people escaped the multimillion-dollar debt. The law initiated by the Government and adopted by the Parliament last year allowed the tenants who fulfilled their payment obligations, who participated in the NET programme, to regain their homes previously taken away by banks on very favourable terms. The relevant customers of the National Asset Manager could make a statement this spring in order to re-ownerize their former properties. As part of the successful action, 31,900 out of 32 500 families, or 98 percent of those involved, came back. Thanks to the highly preferential buy-back conditions provided by the State, some 28 500 of them intend to buy back their previously taken home by banks by means of instalments or by means of a single sum. [[10.30]] The proposal now submitted provides an opportunity for those who, although complying with the legal requirements and conditions, did not send feedback on the offer within the deadline to make a new declaration. Although only 2 percent of the total clientele, but with it about 650 families, the possibility of commenting has been re-opened on the basis of the amendment that has now been tabled. In order to protect Hungarian families in particular, one of the most important elements of the submitted bill is that it provides significant assistance to those who become owners of the property through preferential instalments, but at the same time there is a risk of implementation due to their possible other nature of debt. Based on the amendment of the law, real estate enforcement cannot be carried out on the property recovered within three years of the registration of the ownership. The amendment also covers those who had previously declared that they would buy their property back in one amount, but could not do so by the given deadline. They can pay the purchase price of the property in instalments. During the creation and operation of the National Tool Manager, we were guided by only one goal: the protection of Hungarian families. The current amendment to the law is yet another proof that the government will not abandon anyone, that we will help everyone to live in their own homes and that they can keep it in the long term. Dear Parliament, The legislative proposal provides further assistance to families participating in the NET programme by means of the provisions set out above, so I ask my fellow Members that, on the basis of what they have said, T/7700. To discuss bill No 1 and to support the regulatory intention set out in the proposal by voting in favour. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-22-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by keynote speakers. I give the floor to Mr Mihály Witzmann, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-10-22-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, T/7700 on the amendment of laws relating to the provision of housing for natural persons participating in the National Asset Management Programme. The purpose of the bill is to provide additional support for home creation and to provide protection for families participating in the National Asset Management Programme. As you are well aware, customers of the NET program who complied with the legal requirements could make a statement this spring in order to re-ownerize their previous properties. Within the framework of the successful measure, 31,900 out of 32 500 were families, i.e. 98 percent of those involved who made use of this opportunity and sent feedback. Thanks to the highly preferential buy-back conditions provided by the State, there were nearly 28 500 families who wanted to buy back their former home and property in a lump sum or payment. By the way, the programme allowed more than 150,000 people to escape the multimillion-dollar debt. As a further measure, the government also allowed them to have their homes and properties taken from them by banks under very favourable conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, If we look back at the years after the change of government in 2010, it is worth recalling that the setting-up of the so-called National Asset Manager was among the points of the home protection action plan announced by the Fidesz-KDNP government in 2011 and the Banking Association in order to buy the housing of the most socially deprived lenders. From the start of the program until August 31, 2019, the National Asset Manager purchased over HUF 141 billion of real estate with the use of budgetary resources, which saved some 155 thousand people from their multimillion-dollar debt by continuing to stay and live in their own home, in their own real estate. The NET programme is also an internationally unique and special state home protection measure, as it has been able to prevent the socially disadvantaged lenders or pawns from being forced to sell their pledged property in an enforcement procedure or outside of it by the lien or to order eviction. In recent years, it is also clear that, in addition to creating economic growth and fiscal stability, the government has taken a number of measures to improve, assist and strengthen the capacity of families and citizens to bear burdens and work. With the help of the NET programme and the increase in the performance of the economy in recent years and the improvement of the labour market situation, the situation of the majority of tenants has stabilised, so that they can again ensure that their property is fully maintained and maintained. Accordingly, the next step was to strengthen ownership responsibility by extending the possibility of recovering property belonging to tenants. Dear Parliament, In order to protect Hungarian families in particular, one of the most important objectives of the submitted bill is that the legislative amendment provides significant help to those who become owners of the property through preferential instalments, while there is a risk of implementation due to their possible other nature of debt. Based on the amendment of the law, they may not be subject to enforcement proceedings for the property returned within three years of the registration of the ownership. The bill before us also provides an opportunity for those who, although meeting the conditions, did not send feedback on the offer within the deadline. With the current amendment of the law, they now have the opportunity to make a statement again. This is about 2 percent of the total clientele, which is roughly 650 families. In addition, the amendment also covers those who have previously declared that they will be able to buy their property back in one amount, but cannot do so by the given deadline. With this amendment, they are now given the opportunity to pay the purchase price in the framework of the tranche arrangement. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is clear from what I have said that, with the bill before us, the government intends to provide further assistance in creating homes and to provide additional facilitations, opportunities and protection for families participating in the National Asset Management Programme. I think that, precisely because of these facts, the amendment of the legislation is a measure that can be supported with good conscience, and I therefore ask my fellow Members to support the proposed bill, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-22-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Szászfalvi, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2019-10-22-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, On 30 May 2011, the Fidesz-KDNP government announced the establishment of the National Asset Manager in order to purchase the housing of the most socially deprived debtors. From the start of the program until August 31, 2019, the National Asset Management Ltd. purchased 37 017 properties using a budget of HUF 141 billion for the purchase of real estate and investment, which allowed some 155 thousand people to escape their multimillion-dollar debt by continuing to stay in their homes. With the help of the NET programme and the increase in the performance of the economy in recent years and the improvement of the labour market situation, the situation of the majority of tenants has stabilised, so that they can again ensure the maintenance and maintenance of their property themselves. Accordingly, the next step was to strengthen ownership responsibility by extending the possibility of reclaiming the tenants' former property, thereby enabling the tenants to regain ownership of their former property. According to the Law which entered into force on 1 January 2019 and the Decree, in 2019 the sellers of real estate to be managed by the National Asset Manager, the tenants of the NET fulfilling their payment obligations, were able to buy their real estate from the State under the following preferential scheme: by concluding a lump sum sales contract, countersigned by a lawyer, and by making a statement in a single, detailed private document, in which case the ownership was created by virtue of the law on 1 October 2019. [[10.40]] According to the law, Net Zrt. its tenants could choose to maintain their leases instead of buying the property. As a result of the measures listed, the number of declarations came back significantly higher than expected, and 98 percent of the data subjects returned, as we have heard, these statements. Single sales contracts are being concluded on an ongoing basis, with 4,500 contracts expected to be concluded this year and around 1500 contracts at the beginning of next year. From 1 October 2019, the former tenant became the owner of more than 18 thousand real estate and from 1 January around 2500 real estate can be returned to its original owner. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, As we have heard, the purpose of this proposed bill is to provide further assistance in creating homes and provide additional protection and protection for families participating in the National Asset Management Programme. Customers of the NET program who complied with the legal requirements could comment this spring in order to re-ownerize their previous property. Within the framework of this successful measure, 31 900 out of 32 500 families, i.e. 98 percent of those involved, have returned: thanks to the highly preferential buy-back conditions provided by the State, nearly 28 500 of them would like to buy back their previously taken home by banks, either in one or in part. The proposal therefore provides an opportunity for those who, although meeting the conditions, did not send feedback on the offer within the deadline, to re-declaration. This affects 2 percent of the total clientele, some 650 families, and they will be able to re-enact according to the current legislative amendment. The amendment also applies to those who have previously declared that they will be able to buy back their property in one amount, but that they will not be able to do so by the given deadline. They can pay the purchase price under the buy-in scheme. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, We believe, on the part of KDNP, that this bill helps families in particular and supports families, and in order to protect Hungarian families in particular, this bill contains an important element: it provides significant help to those who become owners of the property through preferential instalments. However, where there is a risk of enforcement due to other debts, enforcement of the property may not be carried out within three years of the registration of the property on the basis of the law. On this basis, we believe that this bill, this proposal, is in any event in the interests of the families concerned, and that KDNP is in favour of it, and we are asking all other factions and fellow Members to do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-10-22-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, head speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2019-10-22-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We can say that one of Hungary's biggest problems is the housing crisis, and if we look at statistics, we can also see that this affects not only young people, but also families who have taken credit in whatever form to get housing. If we look at the government policy and communication of the last few years, how they were able to help families who, let's say, had fallen credit, we constantly saw within the walls of Parliament that they were communicating some kind of success on the part of the governing party, and we, let's say, on the part of the opposition, saw our criticisms. With the creation of the asset manager, we can say that we have lived with a lot of criticism in recent years: whether this programme has worked successfully or not successfully, as much as it has been spent on it, billions, has brought back the kind of support that should have been given to families. I think that if we are talking about family-friendly governance on the part of the government, it would be very important that this should also be manifested in action by providing real help to families who, let's say, have lost their homes because of their credibility. We used a lot of criticism when the first measures were taken for the crooked credentials to distinguish between those who could get rid of foreign exchange loans in the first measure, let us say, under much more favourable conditions, and, of course, we also criticised the government measure when the families converted their credit into HUF. In many cases, in many, many cases, it has occurred in tens of thousands of cases that even though their loans were forinted, even though they had paid off, let us say, for many years, the Hungarian families had a much higher debt than they had before. We can see that government measures have failed to bring about the success that they have promised families and that these laws must be constantly amended. This proposal is also about, I would add completely positive that we can help the few families, hundreds of families who have not declared whether they want to use the law to buy their apartments back. But, of course, I must add: of course, the Hungarian Socialist Party will support this proposal, because we will support any help and amendment of the law that will help the crooked authentics to get their apartments back. But it also needs to be said that not everything is as shiny as it is communicated. However, we see that in the third quarter of 2019 the authorities took action nearly 1100 times, of which the largest proportion was given by the after-sales sale, which is likely to be linked to the collapse of loans, which is close to 1700. This means that the eviction of families is taking place in Hungary to an unprecedented extent. The first measure from the new mayor is also to be welcomed because he immediately stopped evictions in Budapest. We kept telling the government that putting these families on the street wasn't the answer. And let me have half a sentence here: we have asked a number of written questions, and I personally want to know how many children have been taken from families who have been evicted. How many children were in public care just because they were evicted by the government in such a situation that these families had no other solution but that the state intervened and these children were taken into public care? Unfortunately, to this day, we can't get an answer. Secretary of State Bence Rétvári constantly says that they do not have any data on this. We should know, because this is one of the saddest things, and the saddest consequence of these failed loans is that these families are torn apart, and these children are in circumstances that I don't think any of us can wish for. [[10.50]] In addition, we must also say that, despite all the government's help, we are still talking about hundreds of thousands of families who are in constant debt to you, who are in constant danger of not being able to continue to pay their loans, and that at any time they may lose their homes, get on the street, and put their whole family in the most impossible position. Once again, we will, of course, vote in favour of this amendment, simply asking the government to enter once again in a period when the freezing weather begins to give all the help to families who have not been able to take any positive measures and do not allow us to say these terrible numbers here, in the House walls, that the only reason why people are on the streets is because families are on the streets, because in some way these communication aids have not been obtained. Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you for listening.
u2019-10-22-44	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-10-22-45	Mr President, Dear House, The legislative proposal before us mainly raises questions because we see that, in dealing with this problem, the government still believes in short-term, immediate, one-off actions, so it is not building a system. She is not building a system in the sense that this is a matter for a certain group of people at risk in their homes, and it does not affect many others. But in the sense that they want to solve this thing again in a future-specific action, instead of creating a solution, and I would encourage the government to think about a permanent solution to get housing into the asset manager on one side on a continuous basis, this kind of lifeline works, because although foreign currency credit is a less problematic today, there are a number of other reasons why families are threatened with homelessness, and on the other hand, there should be a type of system of this thing where people living in homes today in tenant status can declare their purchase on certain conditions in the longer term. In other words, I think that perhaps the difference between the government proposal and us is that, while we do not have a problem with this specific proposal, because it leads to a direction that makes it easier for people living in homes that are managed by the asset manager today, but we would like to see a longer-term predictable solution to how the asset manager becomes part of the type of common thinking which, hopefully, is now taking place much more intensively in a large part of the municipalities. Because the ban on eviction alone is not a solution to the housing crisis, it is a prerequisite to talk about the housing crisis at all. We hope that the new municipal authorities and hopefully not only the opposition will seriously reflect on how long-term action they can take against evictions in order to address the housing crisis, and we believe that the National Asset Manager or a similar institution has a role to play in the longer term. But then we should think about what we want to do with this, how we want to run this system, whether from the side of how the asset manager buys apartments or acquires apartments, or from how he returns it to the residents when it is possible to improve the financial situation. In this regard, I would also like to mention very briefly that there seems to be a problem or a problem with the bill itself. You recall that in the debate on the bill, many of us missed proper consultation and preparation. It was very urgent, I might add, and I'm not saying this to hurt you, because I understand it was urgent, because the government wanted to deal with a life situation, but of course, it also wanted to distribute before two more elections. So it was very urgent, you can see that a lot of things might not have been properly sewn up during the legislation at the time, perhaps the information was inadequate, or the conditions were not clear enough, because the bill should not have been brought back here after less than a year if that system had worked well or if it had worked really well. Finally, let me share the kind of concern that at the same time there are people living in these apartments who do not buy the apartment because they cannot buy an apartment from the success propaganda, so they have not been reached by this alleged, extremely extensive economic recovery. For them, payment of increased wages can be a serious problem, and I very much do not want us to live to see families evicted from the homes of the National Asset Manager. So this leg is also lacking in this system, which protects these families if, by the way, they are unable to finance even current wages because of a bad social situation or a disease. We also need a safety valve, a safety net for this system. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-10-22-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A speech will be delivered by Mr Bence Tordai, lead speaker of the Dialogue Group. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2019-10-22-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Few people saw the scene when, yesterday, Viktor Orbán nodded violently during the speech by Timea Szabó, just when a co-president of the Dialogue said here in Parliament that Gergely Karácsony, the other co-president of the Dialogue, was introducing a ban on eviction in the capital, as he also introduced in Zuglo. Zugló was the district where the ban on uninstalled evictions was implemented, and Zugló was the district where under the leadership of Gergely Christmas, families were prevented from becoming homeless. And when these results were listed yesterday in Szabó Timea, Viktor Orbán nodded and said that he was very right. What I don't understand is that if you so approve of stopping evictions, preventing families from becoming homeless, why in the last nine years we have not seen him, why have we not seen political measures to this effect from the Fidesz-KDNP government. On 17 October, on the World Day against Poverty, for example, what Viktor Orbán and his government have done since 2010 to prevent families from becoming homeless, what they have done to prevent 50-60 thousand families from being on the street in the last decade, or what they have done to ensure that housing poverty, which affects a quarter of people today in Hungary, is living in poor quality, overcrowded, unhealthy homes, this housing poverty is finally reduced or ideally eliminated. The fact that children live in extreme poverty in inadequate housing conditions is, I think, a disgrace to Hungary. But it seems that, as a result of economic governance with a bright performance, there are not hundreds of billions of people in this area, yet somehow only stadiums are built and not rent homes that would give families in need or young people who are about to start their lives to create a suitable home, whether by renting their own property or by renting a flat. It seems that when the budget reserves are to be distributed at the end of the year, the churches, which no longer ask for these funds and cannot do anything about it, always receive these ten- and a hundred-billion-dollar amounts by football clubs and always by Hungarian organisations across the border, such as Fidesz clients. Interestingly, the National Asset Manager was not properly recapitalised. A few tens of thousands of families are covered only by his authority, the competence he can help. An important and good institution is the asset manager, make no mistake, the Dialogue has supported the creation of the asset manager all along, and we have repeatedly proposed that its budgetary resources increase to multiple times. In Fidesz there was no reception for this, it seems that there was no effort to really solve the problems of families living in poor, unhealthy homes. [[11.00]] There is no effort to stop emigration, which is one of the main reasons why young Hungarians, if they do not receive adequate parental assistance, simply cannot obtain an independent apartment. Today, in many districts of Budapest and not in luxury estates, it is approaching one million forints per square metre of new apartments. So if a young couple were to take on one or two or three children and would like to get a 60-80 square meter apartment, then, yes, they would have to produce 60-80 million forints from somewhere. This may be small change for you, because we see that Zsolt Borkai Fidesz takes out hundreds of millions or billions of forints of public money each year and puts it in his own pocket. [[László Böröcz: Kispesten!]] But for young Hungarians who live from work, these amounts of ten million are simply insurmountable. The whole housing policy of Fidesz is a dead end. On the one hand, they let the prices go free, they blow a bubble of property that leads to the fact that young people are unable to acquire housing, and no one outside the top ten thousand, and on the other hand, they blew an economic balloon that will pop out, and then the screaming will start again. I understand that you can pay up to two million square meters of new apartments in your luxury parks because you are stealing so much public money, but believe me, Hungarian workers with a net median wage of HUF 150,000 cannot afford it. In particular, those who have labour market problems cannot afford to live in such a way; understand that they live in areas where there is simply no market demand for their work and either are in extreme poverty or are trying to earn some kind of income under the public work programme. You have resigned most of society, resigned from housing policy as in the rest of your social policy. The Dialogue, as a green left party, clearly stands for housing as a fundamental right. We believe that the housing market cannot be the same market as anything else in a free competition capitalism, we think that everyone has the right to the right to the right housing conditions, and, yes, the state as a citizen's community is responsible for creating this opportunity for everyone. For everyone, because everyone matters, not only the top ten thousand, or not only the top hundred thousand or one million, who have the chance to buy their apartments in your credit schemes, and not only the hundreds of thousands who are able to finance the purchase of housing for investment purposes from your established CSOK and similar programs, but especially those who cannot start their own lives or provide the right housing conditions for themselves and their children. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] In this situation, in this housing crisis, this cosmetic measure is actually worthless. Okay, it's easier for some families, so we're not going to oppose this on the part of the Dialogue, of course, but we expect and demand the pro-government majority to support the proposals that we have submitted to the budget, or that we have made in general to end the housing crisis. Or come up with a proposal of your own, but you have ministries, you have unlimited public funds to prepare and implement professional concept materials. There's a budget for that. If, let's say, they didn't support the multinationals by hundreds of billions, twice as much as the left-wing governments you call a multi-leaser, or if they didn't support their onion stadium construction plans, the stealth Olympics programme, that is, the LOP, so if the LOP stop was introduced, then only hundreds of billions would be released again, if they didn't carry out the public money, but they would be used to do what the European Union intended, for example, to improve the quality of the housing stock, or to finance rental schemes, then this housing crisis could be solved. This is the question of whether you are cosmeticizing your existing, completely inadequate measures or are willing to provide a solution, a solution that gives every Hungarian family the right to housing. Thank you very much.
u2019-10-22-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. The next speaker was the lead speaker of Jobbik, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-10-22-49	Mr President, Dear House, We've got a package in front of us, and the government is trying to deal with the follow-ups of a fundamentally screwed-up currency-credit settlement, so it's giving the dying person an aspirin, technically, and I'm gonna support the hand-over of this aspirin. [[Lőrinc Nacsa and Dr. Zsigmond turned to Paul Barna:]] I will support this proposal, but it is very, very far from providing any solution for those who have suffered foreign exchange, for those who have suffered credit damage, who have been allowed to be looted in an organised manner, in the same way as other governments. What are we talking about? With regard to the National Asset Manager, to whom is the government now trying to grant further discounts, I repeat, in a way supported by me? He is trying to give this discount to people who typically took 8-10 million forints, then the commercial bank arrived, and after a few years this debt of 8-10 million was likely to be between 25-35 million forints in non-extremist cases, so when the enforcer did not do a trick and when no maladministration was found. If they did this in a village, they'd take this unsub for loan sharking, put him on the bench of the defendants. If it is done by a commercial bank, this will not happen, because the responsibility of the Hungarian state, the Hungarian notary faculty, political leadership, supervision and many others can be seen in the form of a brutal collusion. To highlight an example, many of the notaries, by law, undertake to examine the economic processes behind the paper they have signed. Now, such an investigation has not been carried out in Hungary, as far as I know. The paper signature following the borrowings was made on an industrial basis, and paper was signed in an industrial manner in more than 70 percent of car credit contracts where the specific amount of debt was not included in the sex of both currencies concerned. So this madness went through the system with fundamental shortcomings that the then supervision, political leadership, everyone else should have responded to. That didn't happen. After that, a good part of the executives began to draw and draw these people away with the fact that it was simply unworthy of a European nation state. They demanded and evicted people for claims already recovered, and there were also two enforcement gangs harassing the same Hungarian family. We have brought these stories to you before Parliament. Audience, apathy, and laughing like the previous one, that was your reaction. How many times have I told a minister, or a government leader, specifically, that at this time and then, here and here, we will be there because we have been called by civilians, and we are trying to get the illegal process back into the line of legality, and we have not met you on a single occasion? ! The inside laugh and the herd spirit is on! When you're supposed to be out in the field, you're invisible, you're not there, and you've assisted in the assassination of which you're about to submit a beauty patch here, which, once again, I will support, our faction will support. But don't you dare talk about a comprehensive solution in this House, because these walls are stable, these roofs are massive, but don't you dare tell me that you have dealt with the amazing Calvary of those who have suffered credit in a comprehensive way, that catastrophic situation. In the year you called the Year of Families, more than a thousand Hungarian families were thrown out of their home without anyone taking care of their placement. There are some pretty amazing examples. I understand that we are all somewhat in a bubble of opinion, I too, all of us, because our own group, our political community, the position of our sympathizers, Facebook comments, opinions are drawing back on us, they are in the majority, and often this can distort reality perception if we do not pay attention. But the calvary of those with credit damage is a formula that can be understood by relatively simple mathematics. There is the number of families in distress, the number of evictions that have taken place, and, yes, as my fellow Members have said, the number of children taken from their families, there is a debate between us here, because the specific data is little tangible. Based on these figures, I'm saying that as long as there are hundreds, thousands of these events every year, no government can say that he has solved this problem. I'm gonna tell you how I can make this work. First of all, we should catch the criminals who robbed the Hungarian people and set up the bench of so many defendants that they can all fit there, because now they would not fit in an ordinary-sized courtroom. Then to take these so-called loans, to forint at the rate of the day of admission, excluding all financial fraud and fraud from this system. [[11.10]] If we put forints at the rate of admission, then it is possible to examine how much more the injured have paid back than the justified ones, which would have been justified with real, real market processes and a fair climate, and then we can start arguing, ladies and gentlemen, about the compensation that is due to the citizens concerned, rather than setting up the national asset management beauty patch as a huge achievement, because it is not. An important step, which I support, is to open up the buy-back option for people who joined the asset manager. But understand the word, these people must buy back their own property, which, in many cases, was lost because of unexistent, manipulated, tricked, and alleged debts with irregularities, in the face of executive abuses that only your enforcement system could allow, because in a normal European country this could not have happened, and a true, comprehensive housing crisis must be dealt with. I submitted last week, as I recall, a proposal to Parliament to order the eviction moratorium immediately. The government knows that, typically in its own power, opposition representatives do not. My respectful request is to support this proposal, because it seems that there is a huge debate between us on how to resolve it, but while we are arguing, Hungarian families are being thrown on the street now, even in these times. I welcome the opposition's proposal in the capital, which is about introducing a ban on evictions without accommodation, but at the same time not to hide the whole truth, which does not apply at all to the broad base of credit victims. Quite rightly, in terms of municipal housing, he is trying to create some kind of barrier to madness, and I am in favour of it, but it is not expected to be a complete solution, because a system-wide solution to the whole country, agreed here, can only prevent the crowds of people being evicted because of the debts arising from foreign exchange credit cases. This is a social disaster. To deny this, in this regard, is to say in a proposal of a method management, cosmetic nature, that it provides a systemic solution, is a simple net lie, and my request is not to be assisted by my fellow pro-government Members. You know very well what a problem we're talking about, and you're being contacted by these people through receiving hours, e-mails, and you're not gonna believe it when you say you've got the banks accounted for, because that's not true. It is a simple, net lie, because you refuse to raise the banking sector special tax back to the original level, you refuse to trace the credit institution's allowance back, and you are constantly looking for the convenience of the financial institutions concerned, even in financial periods where their net profits were over HUF 600 billion and which they could put in pocket in a political, economic and regulatory environment where these records would not necessarily apply if they were affected, so some of the customers would not have been the victim of looting. That is why I ask you to also consider addressing the overall housing crisis. We support this proposal, but we would like to see a package regulating Airbnb, a new condominium law, where the conditions for living together are slightly recoded, defined by Hungary, whose law was stuck 20 years ago, when there were no Airbnb, there were no social media solutions and no housing issues could be solved on social media sites. There is a third lack of a comprehensive panel program, since many of our countrymen are forced to live in such an environment, or because of their choice, and they cannot meet a comprehensive programme. The pre-saving part is missing, because the state support of the ltps has been wiped out by this government, so it is very difficult for an average Hungarian youth to save for housing purposes today, and there would still be plenty to modify here in terms of the CSOK. Typically, I would change this system from loans to subsidies, but if we can take it as a package and treat it as a whole, then we can avoid the need for constructions such as the National Asset Manager at all. And I would also like to tell you that, of course, we are in favour of this proposal, and we are not more natural, but if you want to make it a real solution at any time, you will meet with us, we will be here, you can count on the debates. That won't scare you, but I think the real man test is whether or not someone shows up on illegal evictions. So my respectful request is to accompany us to such events as these, let us go there together, and if any of our fellow members of the government were to be atrocious, I will protect them from it, because if someone is in the field and tries to help us, we must estimate that we should finally get to the point where everyone in the Hungarian Parliament is interested in what we are arguing about and look at it with their own eyes in the field. It is equally important to look at the border fence and live between the migration crisis, there we have gained a lot of personal experience, it has served to make the right decisions and press the button here, but it is also expected that every representative in Budapest or at a Pest county site should pay his respects once and make sure that illegal processes are tolerated by the current legal system. It's untenable, it can't stay that way, it's a disaster that neither of us can assist. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-10-22-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches, and now we have two-minute speeches. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Then let's move on to the comments that have been announced by clicking the button. Member Attila Mesterházy of the MSZP Group has applied. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-10-22-51	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, this foreign exchange-credit problem has exacerbated the problems related to housing in Hungary, and many people have already mentioned this in detail, and I would prefer to stay in particular with this foreign exchange-credit problem and not to dissect other related problems. I would like to point out to Mr. State Secretary that the president of the National Bank of Hungary and his vice-president were sitting behind you with a few lines, who answered several times the question I asked, that there is no foreign exchange-credit problem in Hungary, and they do not understand why we are fighting so much about this problem, because the government has already solved this problem. Then, after he told me this, the government announced that they would create the asset manager, and then I asked him again, and he said again that there was no such problem, and then they announced this program that they could buy back their apartment, and now we want to push the deadline. I just wanted to say that there is clearly a foreign exchange-credit problem in Hungary, and it is visible and noticeably causing families a serious problem to date, which has arisen, and in my view, in our view, the government has not dealt with this problem correctly. Indeed, I have been absolved, and this device operator is, in fact, like putting a Band-Aid on an open fracture. Indeed, a comprehensive, fundamental change should have been made at the legislative level in order for the government to deal with this problem properly. We have suggested that there should be a general bank accountability, because it can be seen from who it is at all, as I can see that this proposal under the asset manager is actually similar to the one where someone bought their apartment, but can buy it once again thanks to the government, because these families have already paid the price of their apartment, only because we have not been able to determine how many times it has already been paid back, because there has been no bank accountability, which is why this proposal can be made to buy their apartment again and again by those who have done so several times. So in Hungarian, it would be very important, Mr. Secretary, to have a bank account taken to see who is responsible for what and how. It is also clear, and this has been acknowledged by the Vice-President of the National Bank not here in Parliament, but at a conference that I think it is quite clear that he said, somehow, that it was not fair and satisfactory to inform the banks about the borrowers. However, if the information was not correct and fair, then these contracts would otherwise be null and void in any fair rule of law and would, of course, have a completely different situation for the breacher, i.e. the bank. The other, Mr Secretary of State, is that I should also call again on the Government to terminate their agreement with the EBRD. This agreement is the one that guarantees by the Hungarian Government that no measures will be taken that are harmful to the Hungarian banking sector or will reduce their profits. It is important to stress that this contract was not translated into Hungarian, so that more people would not be able to read it, but the point of this is that they themselves were fully on the banks' side, representing the banks themselves against the debtors, against the Hungarian people, against the Hungarian families, and that is at least as much a sin as not having the bank accounted for. So in Hungarian, this EBRD Treaty, we continue to demand that the government resign and do not defend or view the Hungarian banking sector as untouchable on the basis of this agreement. [[11.20]] It has already been said, and I would only remember for a sentence that you often talk about the fact that you are a family-friendly government, that it would be right to say that you are a family-friendly government. However, if they are already labeling themselves as family-friendly governments, I have to say that they should have started by launching such a family protection action plan, that families with children cannot be evicted, and that is, of course, only the necessary, but not sufficient, condition for dealing with this problem. We should continue on the path that many of my fellow Members have proposed from the opposition, because then this problem could be tackled in a reassuring way. So overall, as my fellow Member Ildikó Bangóné Borbély said, the MSZP faction naturally supports this proposal. We have supported any proposal that can help a single family or provide some sort of solution to get out of a currency-credited trap, but once again let me draw attention to the fact that this is merely a Band-Aid, in fact a comprehensive, complex solution is still needed, and that you are finally on the side of the Hungarian families, the Hungarian people, and not on the side of the banks. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President.
u2019-10-22-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mr János Volner. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-10-22-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will start by saying what no representative of any party has said here in front of me in the lead speaker's round, and not only that, as in Croatia, foreign exchange credit contracts should be destroyed in Hungary, where there was a change to the forint, and there should also be a follow-up in this spirit. The situation with debtors is dramatic, and one of the solutions to this dramatic situation is the National Asset Management Institution, which can be considered a possible, ex post, truly substitute. I would suggest the same thing that many people have done here before me, that we expand the asset management activity, that we need more money, that we capitalise on the asset manager, that we can help a lot more people, a lot more families in this way. What I would like to draw the attention of the pro-government representatives is that in no small part the Hungarian National Bank granted capital injections to the commercial banking sector after 2010, the purpose of this capital injection was to improve the lending capacity of the banks. And when the asset manager is done by the government, he's practically not doing the foreign exchange debt guys a favor, ladies and gentlemen. The quality of the bank's loan portfolio is in the best interests of all Hungarian citizens in Hungary, and this loan portfolio is improved by someone else taking over and managing them. Why is that important? The context of this question must be seen. If a commercial bank has a loan to read the credit institution law, we have discussed it here in the House, I have also been the lead speaker of this law, then the banks are required by the law to raise reserves, in Hungarian the banks are obliged to save part of their own capital in order to secure the loans that have fallen in this way in the event of a possible economic difficulty, a bank failure, an economic crisis. The reason I think it is very important to say this is because when banks are in a similar situation and their loans fall into bulk, it would be much better to shift these failed loans to the National Asset Manager than we can see at present. What's happening? Collapsed loans are bought in bulk by various debt management companies in bundles and require an economist and a lawyer to set up a debt management company, 30 million forints of capital and 30 million forints of insurance, and these mass-buyed loans are sold at a lower price by the banks to these debt managers in order to avoid the burden of reserve formation on their own capital. What's happening in English? Many times, the debt manager buys the apartment at a cheaper price than the market price, because it buys it at a much cheaper price than the customer would otherwise pay if it had the opportunity, but the bank does not agree with it, because it sells these claims in packages to debt managers. The system is absurd, ladies and gentlemen. The system is absurd. That is why, if you now monitor what is happening, it is possible to obtain property from debt managers at a lower price, often for quite ridiculous amounts. Of course, we have the auction rules on the percentage of the value of the property estimated at the first, second and third auctions, and we often see that it is still possible to obtain these properties at a lower price. Let me talk about what a shocking human crisis this whole situation has created here in Hungary. I'm in contact with a couple of F.O.C.s, one of them is N.M. I hope, and I would like the journalists here now, if you will at all monitor today's parliamentary mediation to find me, because I would like to connect them with the lady. This N. Mária lady works as a cleaning lady at a school anytime she's ready to stand in front of the cameras, currently sleeping on the bed of the school's doctor's office because she's homeless. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know how he got homeless? I mean, there's a self-executor named Csaba K, a real bastard who should be in prison long ago, and I met him in a previous case. The court has determined that this man has acted in violation of the law on independent court executioners in a particular type of case, so that he can play the property to the person who otherwise looks at the property, and he has committed a Hungarian violation of the law. And then I'm meeting this same guy on a completely different case when he puts a lady who works as a school cleaner on the street with the same violation of the law, and he's using the same lawlessness to get her out of her own apartment as she did before. These people are virtually professional criminals as independent bailiffs, because the legislator, our community, ladies and gentlemen, here in Parliament, has not ensured that these people are controlled by anyone. I met with a case where one of the executives wrote to the other enforcer that the claim had been satisfied, so he asked that he not withdraw this person's salary because the claim had been satisfied. These are basically crimes, ladies and gentlemen, what these people are doing! But speaking of Németh Mary, I'm sorry. I have brought up the example of Mary N. and I would like to ask you once again to report to the press, to introduce herself, and to take this interview with face and name, then let me also tell you about the problems with the notary institution. The lady had to ask the notary for all the papers in order to be able to initiate the necessary proceedings under the law in this case. On two occasions, one of the notaries in downtown blew him off, saying that he wouldn't give up the paper, because he'd already received it, and he didn't. I went there as a Member of Parliament for the third time, and the notary tries to dissuade this man, who would otherwise pay for a copy of the papers, of course, as required by the law, and try to blow him off by not giving him these papers. There is simply such a mafia between notaries, self-executors and some virtually home mafias who crave the properties of people in distress that it is amazing. These cases work on a systematic basis. And if I don't go there, and I'm not violent, and I don't pull out my parliamentary credentials, then this man still doesn't get the papers, he's gonna get kicked out of there with a noble simplicity. Is it because he's a simple man, working as a janitor at a school, anything can be done with him? Can you make him homeless, just like that? Ladies and gentlemen, this is how the system currently works. It's deeply outrageous and deeply shocking when you think about it. Neither the notaries nor the independent bailiffs are effectively controlled. No review is possible in these cases. The notary's decision is equivalent to the decision of the district court under the notary law. So when you look at a guy like that, what happens to his paycheck? The self-employed court enforcer simply takes the rest of his income beyond life support, and he can't spend an orphan iron on a lawyer. [[11.30]] What is the basis of my outrage is that they make such a man homeless, at the school where he works as a cleaning lady, forced him to sleep on the bed of the medical room, where, out of grace, he is allowed to live there, not to live on the street, and not to go out there every morning to clean, and compared to that, we can see that he doesn't even have the money to conduct the necessary legislative procedure. The only thing you can trust is that for 21 thousand forints, you can take a claim for a statement, and so does the court, and not 6 percent of the case you have to put down as a levy, you can trust that you will get away with this 21 thousand forints, but many times you ask for 6 percent of the cases, because the courts do not accept the decision in these cases as a finding action. Ladies and gentlemen. It's drama, especially when you see it from close to the body. I therefore respectfully ask the Government to extend the scope of the asset manager, capitalise this institution and guarantee its operation for a number of years in advance. It is in the common interest of all of us, and it is also in the interest of the credit institution sector to improve the quality of the portfolio of credit institutions. The asset manager is a great opportunity to do so. Second, it is very important to ensure that debt management companies are not able to sell these properties either in packages or independently from the credit institution's fallen portfolio at a price below real estate and below an appropriate value. The third is that both notaries and independent bailiffs need to be checked, and legal supervision is necessary, because people who are currently in this extremely difficult situation often have no money to hire a lawyer. And last but not least, the last point: respectfully, I ask the government to consider setting a certain amount, up to a million forints, for the sake of round numbers, as an amount that cannot be taken away from them by the independent court enforcer, so that they can continue the legal proceedings, because without it, they will be on the street in bulk, without them they could otherwise be saved, but they will not even be able to pay court fees, to pay lawyers' fees. So, with respect, I ask the Government to consider and accept my proposals, taking into account the aspects of humanity and expediency. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-10-22-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will continue the debate. I would like to address Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát once again. Here you go.
u2019-10-22-55	Mr President, Dear House, Since we cannot get the reaction or the intention of speaking out of government representatives, they lie again, and one of the honourable secretary-general will obviously respond to us in the closing words, I would like to prepare this closing word with some specific questions, which, if there is a ready answer, we will obviously be honoured by this, if we do not get a concrete answer, then we must consider these areas to be unorganized, and in these areas the government assists with the institutionalised looting of Hungarian people. The Hungarian National Bank has been mentioned here, and my first question is about this. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank gained a huge profit of a hundred billion in the former market-forinted foreign exchange loan settlement, when this huge amount was converted. If the same situation had been played in Germany, Magyar Nemzeti Bank's profits would have to be paid into the budget as dividends. This is optional in Hungary, so the management of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank practically decides whether you want to pay your profits in this direction or not. In recent years, they may have paid a lot of $50 billion, but by no means the size of a hundred billion, which, if you will, was realized on people with foreign exchange credit and victims. Jobbik believes that this amount should be paid into the budget on a compulsory basis, that a compensation fund should be set up from everything that can then be settled from the compensation fund, the fate of people who have been evicted, because not everyone is lucky enough to show up at their eviction or after, and help them get a home; not everyone in the state institution can find their place either. We, with better-looking activists, our own team, have shown up at illegal events on dozens of occasions, and we have tried to bring them into the balance of legality. On some occasions, we have been able to provide substantial, genuine help, or even to stop an illegal auction with lawyers, but on several occasions the single opposition representative would not be able to do so, and to do so would require the assistance of a state institution. It is certain that if such a compensation fund could be created from the surplus realised at the Hungarian National Bank, then the fate of these people could be resolved, and something from the fading social protection net would come back to this country. I would also like to make a request, which will also be a question to the responder: do they hold the fidesz statement that the National Asset Management is Hungary's largest rental program? I would reject this approach, I would argue, because we are broadening the possibilities for the future in terms of a rental scheme, and we are also trying to provide housing for young people, but for Hungarian citizens' own property that they can rent back, to say that it is, from our perspective, very, very bordered or a little over. Finally, it is important to mention a better proposal that has already been submitted, and that cuts by executives, 33 and 50 per cent, which, industrially stacked together, burden tens of thousands or even 100 to 200 thousand people in Hungary, should not affect the income required for minimum living, or the amount of income without which the citizen concerned cannot heat, cannot feed, is unable to attach to the basic level. Perhaps we can agree that no financial machine can lead someone to take their last few thousand forints for food away from an executive, an intriguingly active team with a dubious background, which may otherwise be a decent person in some cases, but we have been able to show typical industrial abuse techniques. Thirdly, this is my question: do you know, do you want, do you want the government to support us, so that the amount needed for net minimum subsistence cannot be charged to multiple bans, 33 percent and 50 percent of the bans on executives? We ask not only the answers to these questions with love, but we expect, not only in our own name, but also in the name of the hundreds of thousands whose life opportunities have been temporarily or permanently destroyed by the industrial looting machine, the existence of which was not only allowed by this government, but also by this government along with its predecessors, has been tolerated and tolerated. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-10-22-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. I respectfully ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-10-22-57	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, on behalf of the government, I have only one task: to thank you for your statements of support and to express my pleasure in your understanding of the purpose and content of our amendment. However, given the address that includes personal attitudes, I should, in fact, sit in the chair and not say it from the government, but I would like to say that I am not smiling, Congressman. As long as I see you in front of me. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: I didn't mean you, Mr. Secretary.]] I don't have any reason to smile. Thank you very much. And the other thing is that it is very strange to hear from my socialist fellow Members critical words, forwarding that we are aware as governments and I am personally aware that the last decade has caused a lot of suffering to many people, many families, this whole process that has been discussed here for the last hour. So I don't deny or want to ignore these human tragedies, in fact. But at a time when we know exactly how this whole foreign exchange credit process was developed, I know that the answer is always what date the opening opportunity was made, yes, for special situations, for those who were able to do so, and not for families deprived of other housing support, otherwise, very pink by unscrupulous banks, very honey-smelling into a painted system. [[11.40]] Dear Socialist colleagues, They reached mass proportions during your administration, and this mass effect was created at that time. That's why I'm asking you not to throw up in our eyes about what we did or what we didn't do. By the way, we helped 700 thousand families with the forinting, the fixing of the exchange rate barrier to 186 thousand families, the institution of end-payment to 170 thousand families, the establishment of the National Asset Manager to 37 500 families. Yes, we did. In the context of bank settlement, when it was time to recalculate, the repayments decreased by 30 percent, i.e. 30 percent. The Hungarian families were freed from a loan of some HUF 1000 billion, a loan that had been recreated and a burden on them. The asset manager: In 2011, I was one of the state officials or officials who were there for the creation of the asset manager. We meditated on letting it up to 2,500 or 5,000 apartments. We've included over 37,000 apartments in this program. Of course, it doesn't solve everything, but it did help these 37 500 families. So please don't underestimate that. Don't underestimate the Jobbik just as a reminder, for the sake of historical memory, which did not support the introduction of the exchange barrier, the help of foreign exchange credentials at the time, or when it was about extending the eviction moratorium, only 9 Members voted for it. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] So please take a look around your own house. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] Since the CSOK proposal behind the cover of professionalism has been made, please, the law on judicial enforcement has been amended in 17 and the auction of the last tenure is no longer permitted under the minimum 100 percent. I'm not saying that this solves all personal tragedies, but that they didn't care, that they didn't listen, that we didn't try to move within the limits of opportunity, please, that's simply not true. Finally, allow me to make a comment; it is obvious that because this is about a lot of tragedies and a lot of happenings, it induces emotions and personal comments. I have to address my words to the empty benches: I have built my first house with my two hands, more precisely, with my friends' two hands, they are mine, and I have theirs, and I bought centrifuges when my washing machine detail expired. So don't teach me how to do what's responsible, how to do it right, you're not in that position. So, after the angry words, allow me once again to thank the opposition parties who support this proposal, and I would ask you to express this with your vote in the final vote. Thank you for a truly instructive debate and sincere words. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-22-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, We now have a general debate on the bill on the necessary legislative amendments to simplify and electronicise certain procedures until closure. The government referral is T/7690. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-10-22-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, The purpose of the bill before this House is to electronicise, simplify certain procedures and create the necessary legal framework for the development and application of other IT developments. With regard to simplification and electronicisation of individual procedures, the draft proposes the following. Procedures for issuing a driving licence. The purpose of the draft is to ensure that the holder of the first driving licence, the holder of the new category of examination or the renewal of medical fitness, has the right to drive immediately after all conditions have been fulfilled by means of extensive electronicisation of the procedures relating to the driving licence and the restriction of the personal appearance. The licence shall be issued automatically and free of charge. The use of video technology that allows the client to identify himself fully electronically during the procedure without appearing in person before the authority and also to ensure that the facial images required for the release of documents are taken. Electronicisation of procedures will allow the customer who obtained the first driving licence to drive after successful examinations without having received his driving licence physically and will receive his driving document without needing to appear in person with the authority. Procedures for issuing documents for newborns. The aim of the draft is to publish the birth certificate, the identity card, the address card, the Taj card and the tax card on its own behalf for newborns born in Hungary in an institutional environment with clear legal status, whose registration is initiated by the healthcare provider. The documents shall be served in a package with the address requested by the parents. A further objective is that the procedure for applying for family support benefits, such as education and maternity allowance, which are subject to the right of the person concerned, be launched electronically by automatic transfer of data. Simplification of procedures relating to the issue of documents necessary after marriage. The purpose of the draft is to automatically exchange documents other than the name of birth or other name worn, relating to the marriage name chosen during the marriage. In this context, the permanent identity card and the address card will also be issued on its own initiative to the citizen whose name data changed at the same time as the marriage. In addition, the authorities should take ex officio action on the issue of the new tax card, the Taj card, the driving licence, the registration certificate, the registration book and the passport on account of the change of name. Automation of post-mortem administrative procedures. As regards post-mortem administrative and other measures, the possibility of automation is limited, so only in the case of registration notification procedures and notifications, as well as in the case of documents, a certain degree of electronicisation of the processes. However, the aim is to reduce the administrative burden on deceased relatives by using the electronic administration system. The draft therefore requires the electronicisation of tasks related to the transmission of the death certificate and the automatic transfer of data between the relevant specialist systems. In this way, information from the registry manager to the personal data and address register will be made available more quickly, and information will also be made available more quickly in case of other public-credit registers. On the basis of the bill, it appears as a new service that persons who are otherwise entitled to know the natural identity of the deceased will be able to request information on certain data about the fact, place and time of death. In addition, on the basis of the bill, the citizen will be able to make a statement by electronic contact as to which service providers, in the event of his own death, may be informed electronically of the deceased's natural identity, address, the fact, location and time of death. In the framework of the NAVIS, the legal environment necessary for the renewal of the ID application system will be renewed within the framework of the project. The management system of the ID application will be renewed. [[11.50]] It will be possible to replace the permanent identity card by electronic means, with the exception of legal requirements, with the same data content as the previous documents. Developing the NAVY mobile application. In the event of a successful identification, the law on facial analysis and facial analysis and the law on the police system need to be amended in order to obtain a photograph of the certified person, and then the photograph can be immediately compared with the images stored online in the facial gallery. Mr President, Dear House, In view of the above, I ask this House to support the bill. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Fidesz.]]
u2019-10-22-60	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr László Salacz. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-10-22-61	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Following modern European practice, the Hungarian government has taken a number of decisions aimed at electronicizing and simplifying procedures affecting the vast majority of citizens. In this context, it is worth taking a few examples from the proposal submitted as an illustration. First of all, I would like to point out that, in order to simplify and electronicise the administrative procedures relating to the application, issue and extension of the validity of a driving licence, the person who obtained the first licence in Hungary, who completed a new category of examination, or who extended the medical fitness, can have a licence almost immediately after the necessary conditions have been met, however, the application and production of the driving licence will be automatic and free of charge. Dear House, It is a forward-looking idea that the exchange of documents, other than the name of birth or other worn, relating to the marriage name, should be carried out automatically. In this way, the competent authorities will be obliged to issue the identity and address card, the new tax card and the Taj card on their own initiative. The marriage of Hungarian citizens in Hungary and the related procedures will be subject to this provision. The government's aim was to make the processes outside the state's scope in the event of death faster or more burden-free using the electronic administration system. This includes, inter alia, the transmission of the death certificate as an electronic document to the data subjects, the reduction of the notification obligations of relatives, the notification of utility service providers and the automatic transmission of the information on the fact of death in order to initiate the succession procedure. Pursuant to the current legislation, the birthing director of the Institute is obliged to hand over the necessary documents to the legal representative of the newborn. It is proposed that, after birth, the health service provider shall, without delay, initiate the necessary data for the issue of documents to the competent authorities, from which the completed documents will be sent to the birth registry administrator, who shall ensure their proper service. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal before us contains remarkable and exemplary ideas to simplify electronic procedures for Hungarian citizens and to reduce the administrative burden on them. The adoption of the proposal is supported by the Fidesz Group. I ask all my fellow Members to do the same. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-10-22-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker for the Jobbik Group is Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm, who is speaking here on the stand. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-10-22-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, allow me to welcome my fellow Members at the beginning of the new autumn session. It is a great pleasure for me every time the government puts forward proposals that clearly reduce the administrative burden on citizens, or introduce administrative automations that can be sure that, even if it did not pay attention to a change of name, document change, change of personal data, the system, the automatic state registration system, will handle this, care for it, and will not be in a situation where it may be in the interest of an indiscretion or omission in the future to make life more difficult. The proposal submitted by the Government essentially serves to register and transmit data as effectively as possible in the system of driving licences, changes in matrimonial law, the supply of documents to newborns, or the administrative burden on death. On these issues, the government was forced to initiate amendments to 20 laws, which I thought first to list, but then not because I do not want to bore my fellow Members, however, the fact that this effort was appropriate, and I think that the government itself was surprised at the fact that it started to do this work, how much legislation needs to be amended, sometimes with absolute technical questions, so that it could create the objective, essentially the linking of the database. This bill, as I have seen, in addition to reducing the administration of citizens and to standardising data registers and connecting them, is essentially intended to increase the effectiveness of law enforcement. In this bill, you can read long enough about the connection of facial recognition systems to other registration systems. I do not think that we should be so low-key and I do not understand why the government has not done so in its justification that it expresses the desire to link registration systems, to further develop and harmonise state electronic registers that have become quite advanced, so that law enforcement can be more effective through facial recognition. There is no need to be modest in this matter, and the aim of all Hungarian citizens is to have the most powerful technical means available to identify them if crimes are committed. I am exceedingly pleased because an old shortage is replaced by the documenting of newborns. Although the process of this has not just begun, I found myself as a lawyer that it was true that newborns were smuggled abroad without documents, saying that the man and woman who were otherwise not related would take them out of the border. So I really think that, as a newborn is born, she should have a document, even if a newborn's image is changing from day to day, so it must be replaced more often, but it is absolutely important that a child has his own document. We always say that, and when we have discussed legislative amendments more than once with the Minister of the Interior, I have always pointed out that it is really important for us to connect the different registers. It is important for us to reduce the administrative burden. It is important for us to have tools for the law enforcement authority that really make detection easier, but we have always stressed that this should never be at the expense of the individual's personal integrity. The establishment and operation of any such system is a powerful test of whether the State intervenes in personal relations where it has no place. Are you crossing the line that could be stalking to a citizen? Can you abuse events, otherwise fully personal, that can be used in any way, even at the expense of the person? For example, after recording his image, he can be accessed and displayed anywhere in a place that serves the individual's individual interests and serves no Community interest in any way. [[12.00]] So this legislative amendment will also be a test of life, and we hope that all the measures that wish to introduce will only enrich it. I would like to say a few more questions or some thoughts about the administration of death. These change proposals are to be welcomed, but I always bring here from my life, from my professional life the examples that I speak of when I make further proposals. Although it is indeed a Hungarian citizen, if he dies abroad and only has Hungarian documents, there is no question that the foreign authorities will notify the Hungarian authorities, and in fact the postmortem procedure and administration will take its own legal course. However, as more and more of our countrymen live abroad, more and more of our countrymen have created homes abroad, and more and more of our countrymen have other citizenships, it is very often the case that the foreign authorities do not notify the Hungarian authority of the death of our countryman who died abroad because they do not have a job, or they have citizenship in that country, or they have citizenship in another country, and the foreign country has access to, access to, and access to data, and the procedure for doing so only starts there. If, in this way, a citizen born in Hungary or registered in Hungary has died abroad, and there is no need for notification by the Hungarian authority, but this countryman in Hungary has either a pension or any other property that belongs to the legacy procedure, it is a long time after the Hungarian authorities have notified that they have a duty to terminate a succession after death or any other kind of benefits due to the right of the subject, so I ask the Hungarian Government to invent a system that can be implemented only on the European stage today, because with European countries there is an EU country or, if it is not an EU country, bilateral agreements, to establish a system that, if there is another countryman with nationality who has died abroad, has data on his personal data which suggests that he is related to Hungary, the register of death there will be transmitted automatically to our country. In doing so, the government protects both citizens and persons who may have some kind of attachment to the relationship between such deceased people, not to mention inheritance, from very many future problems. So it is not typical that we make proposals during the negotiation of a bill, but if the government has already touched on the development of these registration systems in such depth and depth and highlights the aspects that this serves, and in particular the system of administration in Hungary after death effectively, let us try this issue, of course it is not easy, because we need to step out of Hungary's jurisdiction and international systems, our relations must be used to allow such a notification system to work, but let the representative of the government present this proposal. Moreover, given that this proposal will also be justified by life, whether it has been justified and will indeed function as it is seen from the proposal, or as the representative of the government has said before us, the Jobbik faction will, of course, support this proposal with its vote in favour. Thank you very much for your attention. Have a nice day, everyone. [[A round of applause from the Right Party and the Government.]]
u2019-10-22-64	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker was the lead speaker of the DK Group, Mr Gergely Arató. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-10-22-65	Mr President, Dear House, They have become accustomed to the fact that, in the case of similar legislative proposals, I am primarily recommending data protection aspects to the attention of this House, and this is how I am going to do it now. Unfortunately, we see the same trend in this bill, as has already been shown in several previous legislative proposals, that the government's data hunger continues to be limitless. In essence, he wants to know everything about citizens and to be honest, he does not care how European data protection rules protect European citizens' data. I am telling you now that I would not be at ease in the position of the government in terms of how this law, if adopted by the Parliament, will be represented in relation to the conflict with European data protection rules in Hungarian, in comparison with this legendary and famous GDPR. We continue to find it astonishing and outrageous that while small entrepreneurs do wonders to comply with GDPR, they must provide a series of guarantees, otherwise necessary, while the government whistles both on the principle of purpose and on the principle of data provision. Let me give you some examples of this bill. For example, the bill 3. The conditions for the provision of information from the home address register are substantially increased. The notary, the court, the prosecutor's office, the foreign affairs analysis centre, the parliamentary centre or Parliamentary Guard, the barn and the barn hat can access these data indiscriminately and without otherwise making any special sense. We see the 16th as even more problematic. § 1. Article 16 is replaced by the following: The scheme provides specific health data, i.e. particularly protected data, to authorities other than the health system, such as the transport authority. This may be convenient for you, or convenient for the authorities, or there is a lot of EU money you want to spend, and it would be very helpful to build such a system, an electronic system, but this is obviously a violation of the citizens' right to their own data, and otherwise it is very difficult to justify the purpose. I know you'll tell me, Mr. Secretary, that only because I don't know what it will be at the driver's license then, but I have to tell you, it's precisely these types of loopholes where we sacrifice the right to data for the convenience of one office and sacrifice data security. I'm not going to tell you any more. Similarly, the image is handled very easily by the bill. In the era of electronic facial recognition, this becomes as sensitive and personal data as numerically or digitally recorded data, and this bill also makes them very widely shared and accessible to public authorities. Overall, this is not a modern data protection approach, but a real, classic police state approach, the police refer to their national security and other bureaucratic interests, and the various public authorities have access to all the data. This is not a European law, it is not a European solution, we are not going to support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2019-10-22-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. Now we have a two-minute speech. Mr Tamás Bellozó asked for the floor from the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2019-10-22-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Due to some technical error, this will be my speech as a speaker, but it will not take any more time. The direction of the proposal and the fact that voters, citizens, taxpayers' time and money are saved otherwise, the government is electronizing these procedures, is fully eligible. Both in terms of obtaining a license, marriage, the I.D. for newborns and death, we believe that this is a forward-looking process, obviously in addition to the right guarantees, but in today's digital world there is indeed a risk of linking databases. Along with this, people living here, our fellow countrymen, escape a lot of bitterness, a lot of queues or unnecessary pastimes, not to mention how many problems, legal problems, or even misunderstandings may arise based on inadequate management or reporting of such a database. I would just like to point out to my fellow Members that it is very good that the procedures are accelerating and require less resources from government agencies, but here I would like to point out, Minister, that despite this, they must do something with the unblessed conditions in government offices, the labour shortage and the incredibly humiliating salaries, because only by digital means they cannot change that. [[12.10]] By the way, as with the labour problem of all law enforcement agencies under the Ministry of Interior, the shortage of staff and overtime, this law will not help them. Finally, let me refer back to my good fellow Member's keynote speech, the anomaly of deaths. In the list of names in Szekszárd there was a 115-year-old compatriot present in this local elections, not that he lives and lives among us, but that he was likely to die abroad, and this will never come to the knowledge of the Hungarian authorities. So I would just like to say that there is something to be done about this matter in the future. Thank you for listening. We support the proposal.
u2019-10-22-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. We now have further speeches from our representatives. Mr Attila Mesterházy is also coming from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-10-22-69	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add two thoughts to what my fellow Member, Mr Bellozó, has said. One is that I think it's a good direction, digitalization. It is worth paying attention to two things in any way to make this as user-friendly as possible in these matters, since we do not live in ten million IT countries, and which, where appropriate, is an evidence for a system planner, it may be an insurmountable problem for a user, especially if someone has not had such knowledge and practice from younger age groups in the past. The other relates to automaticism, that automation works well when precise and accurate data are in it, otherwise it only increases problems. But if these conditions are met, I think that it is indeed a good direction to simplify these procedures. The other thought is that I see it a little differently here than my fellow Member from DK. A very long-awaited requirement on the part of voters used to be called a one-stop shop, which then was not necessarily a one-stop shop, so that the information the state had should not be asked again and again from voters or citizens. So I think it's the right way to connect different databases, so that what's available to the state doesn't always have to be proven to the relevant administration citizen over and over again. So I think that this direction is not necessarily the wrong direction. Of course, there is another very important element of balance, which is that abuse should also be monitored and punished if it is misused. Nevertheless, if you find this balance somewhere, then I think that there is still a greater danger for a voter or a citizen because of the careless processing of Facebook or Google than, where appropriate, the issuing of a licence by the Hungarian State. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-10-22-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if they wish to apply for a proper speech. [[There's no such signal.]] No. Then I would like to address Congressman Gergely Arató for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2019-10-22-71	Indeed, we have some professional debate here with Congressman Bellozó and Mesterházy. It seems that this professional debate is being held today in a narrow opposition circle, because, of course, we do not object to the linking of databases, but that this bill does not contain the guarantees that are otherwise EU expectations, nor that the transparency of data provision and data processing is being achieved from this point of view, nor that it would otherwise be necessary to have all kinds of powers and that the transfer of data would be sufficiently targeted. Congressman Mesterházy says that if there will be an appropriate solution, it will be eligible, but we see in the law that there is no proper solution. To be honest, I do not share your confidence in the Hungarian government in any way or in this matter, so I am always more concerned when government agencies acquire unlimited data. These can be more sensitive and problematic data than data generated, say, on social networks, and I have to add, where everyone decides what they share. And here there are data that are generated in a manner of duty, and then they are cheerfully handed out to each other by government organizations, whether they need to or not. On the other hand, we have an excuse. Once again, we could very much support such a bill if the government had done its homework from a data protection point of view. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2019-10-22-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Attila Mesterházy has also applied for a two-minute speech from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-10-22-73	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think you've got the wrong idea, Mr. Harvester. In some respects, these data already exist in the State, so they do not obtain these data, the data contained in a database should already be there. So in this sense, I think that in some respects this is indeed a technical solution. On the other hand, I think that if the amendments on the part of DK come in, which guarantee what they object to, then it is only possible to improve this law. Thank you very much.
u2019-10-22-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Tibor Pogácsás, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-10-22-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I thank you very much for the supporting contributions, and thank you for the fact that my fellow Members have a fundamental sense that the aim of this bill is to reduce the administrative burden on citizens and to use all the technical and technological achievements that we have. Where data processing and all electronic data records and databases are combined, questions about the regularity of data processing shall be raised mutatis mutandis. I must add that, when preparing the law, all such questions were examined step by step in the preparation, and that the law complies with the European and Hungarian regulations in force today. I remember the debate on legislative amendments to the introduction of the new type of ID card, and similar points were made then, and we now know that the new type of ID card, in addition to being popular and useful and well-used by citizens, and all the concerns raised at that time about data storage and the interconnection of databases, were not justified. I am sure that when this system is launched, which, by the way, gives a great deal of work to the staff involved in the operation, this system will also serve all needs. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-10-22-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. We now have a general debate on the draft law amending certain laws relating to the European Border Registration System and the European Passenger Information and Authorisation System for legal harmonisation until closure. The government referral is T/7692. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-10-22-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill is to create the necessary legislation for the functioning of the European Border Registration System and the European Passenger Information and Authorisation System in Hungary in accordance with EU legislation. EU legislation aims to modernise border management at the external borders of the European Union and to increase efficiency through smart border management. With the help of the European Border Registration System, data on entry and exit and refusal of entry of third-country nationals who cross the external borders of the Schengen area for short stay will be recorded, thereby improving the quality of border control. The application of the system will also contribute to enhancing internal security, so that it will be an important tool for combating terrorism and organised crime. The European Travel Information and Authorisation System will apply to third-country nationals enjoying visa waivers who will have to apply for a travel authorisation in an online application before travelling. [[12.20]] The system allows prior checks to be carried out and, if necessary, the refusal to issue travel licences for third-country nationals enjoying visa waivers who wish to enter the Schengen area. The system will contribute to improving internal security, preventing illegal immigration, protecting public health and shortening border crossing times by identifying persons who pose a risk to one of the aspects before arriving at the external borders. A valid travel permit is a new condition for entry into the territory of the Member States, but it does not, in itself, grant automatic entry or residence rights. The two systems are expected to start operating in 2022, before which national developments and tests carried out by the Member States in addition to central developments at EU level are to be carried out, and the necessary legislative amendments for implementation are to be made. In addition to the above, the bill also includes amendments to the Asylum Act for legal harmonisation purposes. The adoption of the proposal creates the transposition of the relevant EU legal act, the so-called Qualification Directive, in accordance with Article 4 thereof, which provides for rules for obtaining evidence and assessing them during the asylum procedure. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the proposal. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-22-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. This is the speech of the lead speaker, ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, I do not see everyone who has made an appointment, so we have to deviate from the order originally planned, and I apologize for that. I give the floor first to Mr Zoltán Balczó, from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-10-22-79	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, The bill in question concerns amendments to a number of laws, but it is easy to manage and vote that these amendments form a coherent unit. Its main objective is to protect the external borders of the Schengen area, to modernise and introduce the related information system. Obviously, the protection of the Schengen external borders has always been an important issue in the European Union, but it has become a central issue after the migration crisis in 2015. At the same time, it should be made clear that this EES applies primarily to the IT register of legal border crossings. Perhaps to give an account of the extent to which data should be handled: 400 million EU citizens entered the Schengen border in 2018, and 200 million from third countries, i.e. 600 million entry. This is expected to be 900 million by 2025, 600 million EU and 300 million third countries. It is therefore clear that the Commission adopted these regulations in 2017 to address this difficult task. The main objective of the introduction of an intelligent EES is to improve the quality of control of third-country nationals, and a very important aspect is the precise identification of persons who have exceeded their authorised stay and thus effectively to reduce irregular migration. At present, the overstays following the expiry of visa permits cannot be accurately measured. There is no system in place at the external borders of Schengen where national authorities are obliged to fix the date of entry and exit of third-country nationals. They shall be stamped in the passport, so that for the 180-day period, the expiry of the short-term Schengen visa for 90 days cannot be automatically examined by the authorities. So in this respect, this will be a very important step forward. Let me mention one more aspect. Hungary, the Hungarian police, has its own border control registration system, which will also store alphanumeric data required by the EES, i.e. the European EES. It is a very important possibility that we can maintain our own system, because for our own safety it is important that these data are available to the national authority without having to request this from the central data system separately. So, in this sense, it is not in violation of national interest, which may, in many cases, be considered positive in the case of an EU provision. The European Passenger Information and Authorisation System is linked to this Schengen border task, with the exception that it will apply to visa-free third-country nationals. [[Dr. István Tiba is replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]] I can now express the support on behalf of Jobbik, but I say that this is somewhat formal, because this is an EU regulation that will come into force, practically regardless of how we resolve the introduction of this in the domestic legal order, which is, of course, an important and serious task from a codification point of view. And let me make one more comment, which is one aspect of our support. In the 2021-27 budget cycle, the amount available for border management will increase by three times compared to the current one. So we hope that this will be possible from EU sources. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-10-22-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-10-22-81	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I predict that this bill will be supported by the KDNP fraction, as it will establish a European Entry/Exit System and a European Passenger Information and Authorisation System, in line with the European Union's legislation, which meets more than ever security requirements. We agree with the EU's objectives that the European Union must strengthen and improve IT systems in the areas of border management, law enforcement and the fight against terrorism. By the way, I would like to note that yesterday was the announcement of the Convention, the debate of the bill on the counter-terrorism conference to be organised for Hungary in the coming weeks, together with the UN Anti-Terrorism Office. There, too, there must be a great deal of space for online space as a new area in which we face new challenges. This proposal is particularly important for Hungary, given that we have long Schengen borders. Our country borders four countries that are not members of the Schengen area. The opinion that freedom of Schengen internal movement is one of the EU's greatest values, which must be maintained and protected, is an overwhelming majority among Hungarians as well. This is why the news is welcome that Croatia will soon be welcome in the Schengen area if the European Council approves and confirms this decision. Third-country nationals entering external Schengen border crossing points should be checked, fully filtered out, and the least error in this should not be allowed for those who are not eligible for entry, criminals, terrorists or illegal border crossings. This is supported by this EES, which also serves to record and use data relating to the entry and exit of third-country nationals crossing the external borders of the Member States and to the refusal of entry. [[12.30]] This will avoid abuse, at least in our hope it will be possible to minimise abuse if people who are not eligible for entry into one of the countries or on the list of suspected terrorists... in this European Entry System. I think that we are in favour of free movement within the Schengen area, we are in favour of visa liberalisation, and we have made this clear on many occasions. We think it is valuable and positive that we can travel to Serbia, for example, with a personal ID card, and that we can travel to Georgia or Ukraine without visa requirements, to locations that are important to us, for example, from a Hungarian perspective. At the same time, our external borders must be protected. We have made it clear that we need to protect the external borders. The Fidesz-KDNP government and the majority of Parliament have made it clear in recent years that the external borders of the European Union and the external borders of the Schengen area must be protected as strictly as possible, and we cannot allow this to happen. I think that the Hungarian people support us in this. We see that 37 terrorist attacks have taken place throughout Western Europe since March 2016 and have been carried out by migrants or migrants. 231 people lost their lives and 1828 people were injured. We are consistent in thinking that innocent people in Europe should not die, along with migration, as a result of terrorism arriving on the continent. We also disagree with London's left-wing mayor, who says that terror is part of big cities, part of the life of big cities. We can't accept it and we won't accept it, and we have to fight it. That is why it is important to strengthen border protection, as is the current EES proposal, and we therefore support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-22-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Tamás Harangozó. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-10-22-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, This bill, as a proposal for harmonisation of EU legislation, has quite a broad and complicated language. Our colleagues also tried to sum up what was going to change in a four-page annotation. I swear to you that I will spare you now to sum this up, to talk to you about interfaces, the storage of alphanumeric or biometric data records, the EES, ETIAS or other abbreviations, which are all very important, by the way. I spare you because the purpose and content of the regulation, I see that you have a consensus here in Parliament, because its purpose is to guarantee the safety of all our Hungarian citizens, in Hungary or in any EU Member State of Western Europe. The time for desperate independent combat by Member States or by one city or country against international terrorism and international organised crime is over, and everyone knows precisely that one country or one authority is not instrumental to these forces. The only real solution is that the governments and bodies of the countries join forces, share as much data and information as possible with each other, act jointly against international terrorist organisations or even international criminal organisations, and this proposal makes a huge step forward in this technical context, further automation and guarantees that it is not possible to circumvent one Member State against the other, even by withholding information. Therefore, we support the bill even if we do not necessarily agree with the organizational solution of the Hungarian Government, which the Ministry of Interior invented, or if we did not do so if we were on the government, not these organisations or would not handle the data in this way. But to be honest with you, it's totally in the classic government decision-making circle about who thinks it's right. The point is that the EU directive will be transposed, the point is that the data will be linked in all Member States and will serve the safety of citizens living here, and the MSZP will therefore support this bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the MSZP.]]
u2019-10-22-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. As no one has applied for a two-minute speech, Mr Attila Mesterházy's speech follows. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-10-22-85	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I pressed the button for the sentences of Congressman Nacsa, because my fellow Member, Mr Harangozó, said the position of the MSZP, which I, of course, agree with. My fellow Member Nacsa said that this system will be good because it will be able to filter out criminals, that abuse will be avoided, because it will have its IT background and the least error will be made by the control bodies. I would like to say, my honourable fellow Member, that this is very necessary, because there have been a number of criminals who have been able to enter the Schengen area under your control. This scale is wide, because from prostitutes to criminals we managed to let these people pass along the Hungarian Schengen border with control. Or it is worth mentioning that God rest Pharaon, who also managed to get here, even in the Prime Minister's environment. Or perhaps it is worth mentioning that we should remember Szilárd Kiss, who, for example, was convicted in Russia for dealing with visas, then working as a diplomat for the government, and continuing to do so. In English: there is work to be done by the government when it talks about its intention to filter out abuses and to avoid allowing criminals into the Schengen area. So I trust that this system will really be able to help Hungarian government bodies. The other thing that my fellow Member Nacsa was talking about, I would like to say to the record. confirm that Fidesz not only wants to protect borders, but the Hungarian Socialist Party also wants to protect borders. As strange as it may sound, our policy in the area of security policy is that those who have permission to cross the border should come across the border, in Hungarian, that this is what the border crossing point and visa application was designed for, that those who wish to travel to Hungary and have such an obligation should ask, and then, if they have received it from the relevant bodies again, not in the way Pharaon and the others, but in a really legal and legal way, they can, of course, travel to Hungary if they do not, then, of course, they should have refused, as should have been done in the case of Szilárd Kissss's clients or even in the case of Pharaon. What I would like to say to the Protocol is that Fidesz is not the only party in Hungary that wants to defend Schengen borders hard and decisively, but I think that all other political parties among them, the Socialist Party is certainly committed to Schengen border protection. The third thought I would like to refer to is because I have heard this from my fellow Member Nacsa for the second time, as I recall, yesterday he used this idea as an argument about how many terrorist attacks have occurred. I would ask my fellow Member, while, of course, it is right to remember this, but when we talk about terrorist attacks and terrorism, let us also remember the terrorist attacks committed by extreme right-wing people as a hate crime. So when we talk about the fact that only migrants are always committing terrorist attacks at your reading, this would be able to withstand the debate in a certain way, but there have been, unfortunately, a number of terrorist attacks today that have nothing to do with migrants, and indeed, if we are already quantifying these data, it is worth adding that. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita applauds.]]
u2019-10-22-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if they wish to apply for a proper speech. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Then I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2019-10-22-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I pushed the button because of Congressman Mesterházy. Of course, at Fidesz-KDNP, we condemn all terrorist attacks, we sympathize with all victims, and we have always expressed our solidarity with the families of the victims. What we are talking about here is that the terrorist attacks you are talking about when a citizen born in a given country does this, they are not in any way a part of the single European Border Registration System, and they will not be filtered out. I have listed statistically what has been committed by people with a migration background or a migrant because they are involved in the EES, so they belong to this topic, this item on the agenda that we are talking about. That's what this is about. [[12.40]] And I'm asking you not to tell me that we don't judge those cases. We condemn it in the same way, but these cases that I have listed, which have caused the death of 231 people and the serious injury of 1828 people, would have been avoided if we had strong European border protection. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-22-88	Thank you very much. Mr Gergely Arató also asked for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-10-22-89	I admit that I would not have asked for the floor because we agree with the bill with you, but I am obliged to draw the attention of Congressman Nacsa that unfortunately the world is not as simple as he thinks it is, because a significant part of the terrorist attacks that you have listed and are of a migration background, which in itself is a very difficult concept to describe, indeed, a second, third generation of immigrants who are citizens of the country and for whom the border protection system is of little value. In their case, other measures would be needed, which Fidesz is not very readily available, including strong European intelligence cooperation. But that's not the subject of this bill. However, I would like to note that what this bill requires, or what is more precisely the EU legislation behind it, or what is important just to clarify this professionally, is the case of European citizens fighting primarily in the Islamic State. In English, these people who go and come back are the case of foreign fighters where this thing is extremely important. But let us not look for a political debate on an issue where there is no policy debate. We all agree that there is a need for European border protection and that the electronic system is necessary for this. We support it, you support it, I don't think we should argue about it. We can argue about anything, but there's a much better topic than that. Let's not argue about something where we agree on the point.
u2019-10-22-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Attila Mesterházy is next for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2019-10-22-91	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I did not say that you would not be convicted, I said that you would systematically forget to list it when you commemorate this issue, and that is why I told you yesterday that your comment only spoke about these events. And when we are talking about a UN conference in general, there is certainly a place to put all kinds of terrorism issues on the table or to commemorate victims. But I continue to maintain my claim that such an electronic system can help this work for sure, but to do so, the Hungarian authorities must do their job properly. And that's why I've been ironically trying to point out that, even though there are electronic systems in place in Hungary, they haven't been able to filter out certain criminal elements with the help of these systems. So in Hungarian, computing can help a lot, but it also takes human resources to make them work effectively. Thank you very much.
u2019-10-22-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. At the same time, Mr Barna Sigismund asked for the floor for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2019-10-22-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to respond in two sentences. On the one hand, to the suggestion of Mr Mesterházy: Fidesz condemns not only the terrorist attacks on the far right, but also the terrorist attacks on the far left, as we mention here. But my fellow Member Nacsa has made it clear what our position is on this issue. That's what Fidesz is saying. My fellow harvester argued that he said that Fidesz was not interested in European security cooperation. I would like to confirm that the government, Fidesz, is also interested both in EU domestic cooperation and in the cooperation of all kinds of law enforcement and service bodies with regard to NATO, in order to take joint action against terrorist attacks. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-22-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my honourable fellow Members if there is still someone who would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Tibor Pogácsás, as rapporteur, whether he wishes to keep his closing words. [[On the sign of Tibor Scones:]] Yeah. Here you go.
u2019-10-22-95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for your comments. It was clear that all speakers agreed with the bill. I'll ask for your support. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-22-96	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform my fellow Member that it is possible to present the amendments by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! The general discussion of the bill between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Georgia on the publication of the Convention on cooperation and mutual assistance in the event of disasters until closure. The government referral is T/7689. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. For the first time, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-10-22-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Hungary considers it important to have stability in the region in the eastern neighbourhood of the European Union. This stability is essential to enable the people of Central Europe and Hungary to build their economy and society in peace. As a practical implementation of this endeavour, the Hungarian State seeks to strengthen its relations with a number of states in the neighbourhood of the European Union. One of these states is Georgia, with which we would cooperate not only in the area of investments in agriculture and infrastructure, but also in order to prevent and mitigate disasters that fundamentally affect the daily lives of the population. The importance of cooperation under the Convention is increased by the fact that natural emergencies and disasters due to climate change are expected to increase and intensify in the near future, the effects of which will only be prevented and mitigated by inter-state cooperation. The Convention signed in Batumi on 11 July 2019 designates the contact bodies of the Contracting Parties. The Contracting Parties shall ensure their cooperation obligations through their liaison bodies. The Hungarian party designated the National Directorate-General for Disaster Protection in the Convention, while Georgia's Government maintains contact through a crisis management service acting as a subordinate state body of Georgia's Ministry of Interior. In order to prevent disasters and mitigate their consequences, the Convention sets out ways in which the cooperating authorities can coordinate their activities in order to protect those in distress most effectively. The Convention sets the framework for cooperation not only in the event of a disaster or crisis, but also provides an opportunity to establish institutionalised forms of efforts to avoid them. On the basis of the Convention, the Parties shall also settle the procedures for contacts and exchange of information, the manner in which rescue teams, equipment and aircraft are used, and the cost of assistance operations. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill submitted to Parliament is to obtain the parliamentary mandate necessary to recognise the mandatory scope of the Convention on cooperation and mutual assistance in the event of disasters between the Government of Hungary and the Government of Georgia and to declare the Convention. In view of this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to discuss and support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-22-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Sigmond Barna Pál. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-10-22-99	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Although foreign policy discourse may not currently be dominated by Hungarian-Georgia relations, this does not mean that they are not important to our country, and they have, in fact, been spectacularly improved in recent times. As a Member, I can only agree with the Hungarian government's strategy in this direction. I think it is right to realise that the country needs good relations with the Eurasian region. Moreover, the stability and prosperity of the countries of the Eastern Partnership is in the interest not only of the country but also of Europe as a whole. To do so, we need such agreements, which give us the opportunity to play an active role in promoting stability and integration in the region. Sadly, however, in the West, this recognition is often enough for fine words and promises. On the other hand, our government is constantly working towards developing a multi-faceted strategic partnership with Georgia, among other things. We will effectively help the country to strengthen cooperation with NATO, thus also forecasting the possibility of future accession. We are represented in the European Union Monitoring Mission in Georgia by sending out 12 Hungarian observers. In addition, there has been cooperation between Hungarian and Georgian companies in military technology. At the same time, we promote the modernisation of the country's agriculture with financial support and professional assistance. [[12.50]] The line could continue, and now I have just set a few examples of a multifaceted and mutually beneficial relationship between our countries. This new convention, which creates a legal framework and logistics for mutual assistance in the event of disasters, is very well included in this list, because, although the importance of long-term economic cooperation is indisputable, it is also necessary to remedy acute problems with common power. Otherwise, the elements of the resulting cooperation, such as the exchange of information, joint projects, research, conferences, go beyond disaster protection. These communication, organisation and logistics solutions can also serve as a useful precedent in other areas of the relationship between the two countries. Overall, I believe that the Hungarian Government is playing a commendable role in helping the Eurasian region to move towards European integration. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that once we have recognised that the stability of the region is in the interests of the whole of Europe's security policy, we must also work on it so that we can help it with the widest possible toolbox. In view of this, I would like to ask with respect my fellow Members to support the publication of the Convention. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-22-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Tibor Nunkovics. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-10-22-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik, as a renewed national party, has consistently said yes to all Georgian-related agreements... I'll wait for Mr. Nacha to laugh at you. Thank you very much. So we have said yes to all such conventions, and we will also support this proposal. The convention fits well into the system of Hungarian-Georgia relations, which would serve the further development of relations in the field of disaster control. The establishment of the Convention can have a positive impact on the whole Hungarian-Georgia relations, and can clearly have a positive impact on the protection of the country. Despite the fact that we are talking about a bilateral agreement, I would like to say on behalf of Jobbik that Hungarian-Georgian relations cannot be understood without the EU's Eastern Partnership. Hungary is one of the most enthusiastic supporters of the partnership in the EU, and we very much hope that, accordingly, we will be able to show ourselves as a credible European country to Georgia and the other partner countries. For the current Finnish Presidency, the priority is the social development of the Eastern Partnership countries according to European values, which can also be seen on page 37 of the Parliament's EU Strategy. Since the Autocratic steps of the Fidesz government have led the EU to proceed with an article 7 procedure against your government, we see some credibility problems, but, of course, with regard to Hungarian-Georgia relations, we will vote in favour of this convention. Thank you.
u2019-10-22-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-10-22-103	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, There is a growing and close friendship between Hungary and Georgia, and political and cultural relations between the two countries are excellent. Hungary and Georgia are in such a historical relationship that the two countries have never been in war or anger or conflict with each other, and I think this is a great word and merit in terms of the current political and geographical map. Georgia is more connected to us than we think at first glance, and the rich culture of more than three thousand years calls for respect and recognition. What we see today is that more and more Hungarians are interested in Georgia's tourism, more and more people are choosing Georgia for their vacation, holiday or winter, and Hungary is also becoming an increasingly popular destination among the Georgian people. The growing tourist connections are well demonstrated either by a low-cost airline flight to Kutaiszi or by the Georgia airline's flight to Budapest, which was launched last year. I think they also contribute to the recovery of the relationship between the two countries. In our view, what is the agreement between Hungary and Georgia must be supported. I also welcome the current agreement as the president of the Georgia Friends' Department. Hungary is the strongest supporter of Georgia's Euroatlantic integration, and we have expressed this to them on several occasions, and I think that the good relationship is also based on the fact that we believe that both NATO and the European Union should open up to the country more quickly and decisively. I think it is very important that Hungary receives 80 Georgeian scholarships students every year, and they can get to know Hungary, learn about Hungary's culture, learn here, and then bring our reputation home and further strengthen the relationship between the two countries. Hungary supported visa-free travel between the European Union and Georgia in 2016, as well as a number of agreements concluded between the EU and Georgia in the previous Commission cycle, because, unfortunately, this has slowed down a little in the current Commission cycle. Turning to the current convention, it is very important in the forms of cooperation that voluntary assistance can be provided at the request of the parties; in the event of a civil emergency, information exchange on prevention, preparation, avoidance, exchange of documentation, equipment of rescue teams, expert meetings, exchanges and training, joint planning and development of projects and research will be implemented. This proposal and its publication are therefore supported by the KDNP fraction. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-22-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Attila Mesterházy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-10-22-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Nacsa said very precisely and precisely why this convention is important, and I couldn't say it better than him. [[Defiance.]] I would therefore really just like to say that we, for our part, support the adoption of this convention. Now, aside from the joke, perhaps it is worth taking advantage of the fact that we are talking about cooperation in the event of disasters, in order to thank the Hungarian experts here in Parliament, who are involved in the prevention of such disasters in many places in the world, and not with just any efficiency and professional knowledge. So for the record, I would like to say that I thank them for risking their lives in many cases, and for increasing Hungary's reputation in this area as well. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-10-22-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I am asking you if anyone would like to speak in this debate. [[No one's reporting. Dr. Gurmai Zita will take his place.]] I don't see any sign of the general debate... Gurmai Zita? [[On Dr. Gurmai Zita's mark:]] No. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr. Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás if he wishes to close. [[On the sign of Tibor Scones:]] Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2019-10-22-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for your support. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-22-108	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. [[László Földi is replaced by Dr. István Tiba in the notary seat.]] The European Convention on Road Transport, signed in Geneva on 19 September 1949, the Protocol on road signs in Geneva on 19 September 1949, the Convention on Road Transport in Geneva on 16 September 1950, supplementing the Convention on Road Transport signed in Geneva on 19 September 1949 and the Protocol on Road Marking signed in Geneva on 16 December 1955, the Agreement on the declaration of road works in Geneva on the amendment of the Convention on Road Transport in Geneva on 16 December 1955 and the Protocol on Road Marking in 1949, as well as the proposed legislation on the publication of the European Convention on Road Marking on 16 December 1957, in Geneva on the date of closure. The government referral is T/7691. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Schanda, State Secretary of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. With all due respect, I can ask you, on behalf of all of us, not to repeat the same address. [[Defiance.]] Here you go, Secretary of State. [[13.00]]
u2019-10-22-109	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor, and it was actually my intention to thank Mr President for reading the title of the bill, so that much of the expoze was fulfilled by the President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to say a few words about the bill before us, not taking advantage of the time frame we have. The Geneva Convention was published in Hungary by Decree-Law No 28 of 1962, which was published by LXXXII of 2007 on the repeal of certain laws and regulations. It has been repealed by law. At the same time, Hungary continues to be part of the Geneva Convention in the international legal sense. In Hungary, the 1968 Vienna Road Transport Convention was published by Decree-Law No 3 of 1980, which is still in force. However, it is increasingly problematic that some states do not accept international driving licences issued by the Hungarian authorities in Hungary to non-resident Hungarian citizens with a content corresponding to the Vienna Convention. This can occur in countries that are parties to the Geneva Convention but are not parties to the Vienna Convention. In view of the above, it is necessary to amend the Geneva Convention Act and the relevant Government Decree accordingly, allowing international driving licences to be issued under the Geneva Convention. Dear Parliament, The annex to the bill contains the authentic text of the Geneva Road Transport Convention and its amendments in English and Hungarian. The Convention lays down, inter alia, rules on road transport, signs and markings, the requirements applicable to motor vehicles and trailers, provisions on drivers. The provisions of the Geneva Convention on Road Transport concerning road signs and marks should be enforced by the States declaring them by virtue of the wording of the Convention in national law. In the case of Hungary, this allows the continued maintenance of existing national law based on the Vienna Convention published by Decree-Law No 3 of 1980 and thus does not lead to any changes in road traffic, signs and signals. I would ask the Honourable Parliament to support the adoption of the bill and the re-promotion of international conventions in the interests of Hungarian citizens with international driving licences. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2019-10-22-110	Thank you, Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-10-22-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, There are probably many here who remember the time when the work of this body was kept to a minimum, with its powers as narrow as possible. Before the change of regime, I'm talking about socialism. The Parliament was virtually completely deprived of its legislative role and instead of the legislative decrees of the Presidential Council of the People's Republic. It is also due to this anti-democratic period that some of our international treaties are still legitimized by such regulations. Fortunately, whatever opposition politicians claim, we now live in a well-functioning democracy. I therefore believe that one of our important tasks is to replace these regulations from socialism with appropriate laws. As we can read in the title of the bill, which I will not repeat, the rules of road transport are based primarily on five international conventions concluded in Geneva between 1949 and 1957. That would have been fine so far, but the problem is that these conventions have already been proclaimed by a 1962 Legislative Decree. This Regulation, as can be seen from the text of the proposal, expired already in 2007. It is time to create a new, more modern legal basis for the same internationally agreed set of rules. Dear fellow Members, If you read through the bill, I urge everyone, I do not think they will encounter any surprises or unexpected items in its text. The five conventions lay down rules on the state of vehicles, distinguishing marks, priority and so on, which are well known to everyone. I do not think that the quality of windscreens or the brake structure of sidecar motorcycles would give rise to a particular debate along any party policy breakline. That is why I ask you with respect to support the announcement of this treaty. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-10-22-112	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Varga-Damm, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-10-22-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat the title of the bill either, because there is indeed a package of conventions coming up. Just in order to loosen the mood, I thought that when I prepared for this keynote speech, that the lawyer who is about to write a thesis, if he were to write from the history of this package of conventions, would surely receive an A-plus, because all the public and international legal circumstances that led us to talk about the announcement of a treaty created and signed 70 years ago on 22 October 2019. Of course, this certainly does not mean that in the past 70 years our country has failed to sign these conventions or to try to comply with the international traffic signals or the rules on road safety established by the Convention in our internal rules, however, it is so adventurous that this could be a beautiful delicacy for a future lawyer's thesis. I think that if we are talking about such a convention especially after such an interesting public-law history, then we can safely talk about what required the establishment of such a convention at the time, and since then these conventions have been sought to adapt to today's conditions due to mobilization, technological progress, and the conventions also contain a number of elements that have been created because of future development. If we are responsible politicians, at least in Parliament when we announce such a convention, it is okay to say the special and unfortunately unfortunate conditions that are indeed part of our daily lives in Hungary, either because of the non-compliance with the rules or because of the congestion of the roads, and which, I think, are remarkable, so it is okay for us in the Parliament to mention these issues. In any case, the development of mobilisation was accompanied by a strong social development. In the personal life of our citizens, mobilisation is an extremely important factor due to both contacting, contacting and economic development, and no one disputes this. However, it is a fact, and Hungary can say that, and that is why it is important that the rules of transport become richer as much as possible, even because of the need to follow the rules, but it is a fact that the density of traffic and the extremely narrow road network in Hungary cause a great deal of problems in transport due to the nature of our transit. I don't know if you know my fellow Members, but by 2020, around 1 million 900 thousand people are expected to lose their lives just because of a road accident. This means that there is no need for war in the world, yet nearly two million people die on the roads. The reason for this is that, although the rule system is extremely rich, it is extremely accurate to present the expectations of citizens, manufacturers, transport network developers, and yet there is such a huge lack of compliance, and the road network is so inadequate for safe service due to extremely dense traffic that this is the result. [[13.10]] Transport in Europe accounts for 10 percent of GDP. This is an extremely large number, but it should also be seen that 44 percent of this high GDP ratio is produced on the roads. Road networks have, of course, developed over the past 30-40 years, but not to the extent that economic and personal transport would have required. I also thought it important to indicate this when these conventions were published that, although our rules are beautiful, we are now ratifying again a package of conventions that was already announced and repealed in Hungary, but this is only a multitude of rules. To do this, politics, economic life and people must put themselves in a position to make sense at all that they regulate the rules of transport on the international stage, transport signs, if they do not have the appropriate acceptance and support in society. I think it is very important, while we are talking about this issue here, to mention what Jobbik is doing and, by the way, I think that a responsible politician should have a creed in the first place, and that is that a large part of road freight transport should be put on the rail. Switzerland was able to do so, and similarly Hungary is a small country, a transit country. We will take every opportunity to discuss transport from any aspect here in Parliament, to say that if this trend, this endeavour does not begin, then both the state of roads and the danger of human lives in Hungary and the economic development developed by transport in the economy, but infrastructure losses due to road degradation will be disproportionate to each other to such a degree that transport does not bring about the GDP that we can show today on the European scene. Today, in Hungary, both inland and rail networks have the capacity to drive trucks across our country. If the Hungarian Government really wants progress, if the Hungarian Government says that it is always looking for new areas in which economic development could be guaranteed, then Hungary would not only build a railway network that is not for anyone, but also the Budapest-Belgrád railway network with some unforgivable money, but also that money would only be spent on the transport and distribution of inland waterway and rail trucks, then Hungary could only show substantial and real economic development in this area, from an environmental point of view on the one hand, on the other hand, in terms of the safety of citizens, on the other. I would also ask the honourable representatives of the Government and the members of the Government to talk about this issue. This issue will in no way undermine anyone's business, in any way endanger any interest in any way, but in Hungary it would increase the development of Hungarian people, road transport, economic security and these areas of expertise to such an extent that it could show the development that the country wants not only in proportion to the future, but also in nominal terms and in substance. There's something else I'd like to do. All such agreements, as you can see, result in openness and support from the Jobbik faction. This will continue to be the case in the future. But let's just say that if we express Hungary's cooperation on the international stage in such a fair, fair and international way, then at least in our internal relations they should place the way of governance in such a responsible manner, at least in such a fair and at least in the way of development. Thank you for your attention. Have a good day, all of you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-10-22-114	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Mrs Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2019-10-22-115	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Members and dear young Visitors, In Hungary, international conventions on road transport in Geneva were published by Decree-Law No 28 of 1962. However, this legislation expired on 1 July 2007 pursuant to the Act repealing certain laws and regulations. However, in the international legal sense, Hungary continues to be part of the Geneva Road Convention, the Protocol, the Additional Agreement, the Amending Agreement and the Geneva Road Marking Convention, and it is therefore appropriate to publish them again. It is a pleasure that the government will pay attention to the details and will also submit a repeated publication of an international treaty to the Parliament. Although the previous legislation expired in July 2007 and had to wait more than 12 years for a re-promotion, it is said that it is better late than never. As regards the professional part of the proposal and its delay in time, it is also worth considering that self-driving cars were tested on the road in Austria two years ago. By the way, it would be worth considering at home the degree of preparedness for international regulations on autonomous transport and how we stand with its domestic adaptation. It is also worth adding that in August of this year, the news has come up that the rules of road transport are being transformed in Germany. The reform aims to make road transport safer, fairer and even more climate-friendly. The German transport portfolio also proposes a series of tightening ups, such as parking on the sidewalk, on the bike road and, in the second row, motorists waiting on the road alongside vehicles which have been regularly stopped, for example, can expect a penalty of up to EUR 100 instead of a fine of EUR 15 so far, not to mention that it is always difficult for mothers to travel in such places. Motorists on motorways are subject to an even higher penalty of EUR 200-230 and a one-month licence, which can only be recovered with two penalty points. Most of the innovations are designed to strengthen the safety of cycling transport. Among the rules on overtaking, for example, the appropriate lateral distance definition is deleted and replaced by a minimum distance of one and a half metres in a populated area and a minimum distance of two metres in front of a motor vehicle outside of a populated area. It also protects cyclists that a truck with a total mass exceeding three and a half tonnes can only turn right in a step at a speed of between 7 and 11 kilometres per hour. Breaking the rule will result in a fine of EUR 70 and a penalty point. The Ministry initiates this tightening because the majority of fatal or serious bicycle accidents are caused by vehicles turning to the right. According to the proposal, local authorities may also designate so-called cycling zones, in which only bicycles or small electric vehicles can be used and are allowed to travel at speeds of up to 30 km per hour. The reform will also allow for the emergence of a number of new KRESZ tablets on German roads, such as a sign indicating the ban on the prevention of cyclists and motorcyclists and a signpost indicating the speedway. One of the proposals to encourage climate-friendly transport is the freedom to use bus lanes, in addition to electric vehicles, for cars and motorcycles with which at least three people travel and separate parking places for cars operated in Community car-sharing systems. Inter-reconciliation of the reform package begins on Monday, after the ministries the provincial governments and the relevant social organisations can comment on the plans. The Lands should also contribute to the amendment of the KRESZ Regulation, which will be decided by the Chamber of the Law which brings together the provincial governments. The transport portfolio intends to introduce some of the new rules this year. This German example also draws attention to the fact that it is very important to publish again the Geneva Conventions of seventy years ago, but the 21st edition of the Act on Transport. When will the government finally pay attention to the challenges of the century? Let us add that the emergence of electric scooters is a problem for Budapest transport. What do we expect to solve more complicated problems? Nevertheless, the MSZP fraction will support it. [[13.20]]
u2019-10-22-116	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Two-minute comments, first from Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP.
u2019-10-22-117	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Sigismund's comment inspired me to press the button, as he said that this law had to be changed because it was concluded during communism. [[Dr. Zsigmond Barna Pál: That's not what I said.]] I think it is necessary to change a law because, where appropriate, it is outdated and, where appropriate, there is new and better regulation. But if you have already mentioned that there is a problem with when this rule was made, let me recommend to the Fidesz faction the regulation that Hungary concluded with the Soviet Union in 1962, which provides pensioners with pensioners who are Russian and Ukrainian citizens, whether or not they have Hungarian citizenship. This means approximately HUF 14 billion a year for the Hungarian budget. For example, if you wanted to change the agreement between the Hungarian People's Republic and the Soviet Union, signed in 62 and entered into force in July 63, we would also very much support it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-10-22-118	Thank you, Congressman. Here comes a comment from Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2019-10-22-119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Due to an administrative error, I wasn't able to comment in the keynote round. Obviously, good work takes time to reassure Mrs Gurmai with this, both the professional arguments have already been made either from the Secretary of State or from my fellow Members. I would just like to draw Mr Mesterházy's attention to the fact that this is not what Barna Zsigmond said, but my fellow Member pointed out that when your predecessors here reduced the work of the Parliament to almost zero, and tried to govern the country with regulations and legislative decrees, it does not belong to the most glorious period of our country, and it has tried to distance itself from this era on the one hand, and on the other hand, to say that now that Hungary has a re-elected Parliament since 1990, it is worth making these decisions here, rather than, say, following the old practice that the predecessor party of MSZP has regularly applied. What I would just like to say about the proposal is that, since we already have a broad understanding of road safety, on the one hand, companies operating in Hungary, in connection with transport, are putting down more and more value-added work on the table, whether it is road safety, car manufacturing or the test track in Zalaegerszeg. Here, Congresswoman mentioned self-driving cars. I think that the test track in Zalaegerszeg is also a leader in Europe, and the innovation that appears there is extremely remarkable. I would like to draw attention to just one problem, and that is where we can do more, and we also have a responsibility to set an example in social change, the use of mobile phones while driving, and the resulting very high number of accidents that have characterised the past periods. Here I think that both public actors and opinion-makers have a great role to play in resisting this and in avoiding as many accidents as possible, which will result from this, in the future, not only by setting an example, but also by talking about this issue, and in no way giving them a reason or an opportunity to see us even in a position to use our mobile phone while driving, because this is an important issue, a burning issue, and we see that there are many accidents on this subject, obviously they must be prevented. Of course, the KDNP fraction supports the publication of the Convention. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-22-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. For two minutes, Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP.
u2019-10-22-121	I didn't mention what I said by accident. I would like to point out to my fellow Member, Nacsa, that this is the agreement on the payment of pensions, this is a legislative regulation, so it belongs to what you said, which is why it should be changed that the ugly, nasty practice that you have done in the previous period can be changed, and this 14 billion forints could then remain for pensioners living in Hungary, who are Hungarian citizens, and I think they would also need it. To your other point, I would just like to say that there are currently more MSZMP party members in your group, and in your government as well as in our faction, so be careful with this. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-10-22-122	Thank you. For two minutes, Congressman Pál Sigismund, Fidesz.
u2019-10-22-123	If we are already in politics here on this convention, please note that this agreement expired in 2007, you were in the government, but you did not address this issue either. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: 12 years ago, you guys!]] I felt that the 5 December 2004 spirit of Ferenc Gyurcsány, the spirit of Ferenc Gyurcsány, was coming back to the House with the sentences that my fellow Member had just recalled. When you were on the government, you were taken from the pensioners, and now you're worried about the pensioners. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: This is said ten times a day! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-22-124	Thank you very much. I would like to ask my fellow Members, with all due respect, to talk about the law, to talk about the proposal, and I see that Mr Attila Mesterházy has also withdrawn his two-minute speech. [[Attila Mesterházy nods.]] Would anyone else like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak? [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr Tamás Schanda, State Secretary, to express his opinion on behalf of the rapporteur.
u2019-10-22-125	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the supporting contributions to the bill and the arguments made. I think that we will have the opportunity to argue on issues beyond the bill and in other legislative proposals and other situations, including self-driving, autonomous vehicles and many other exciting issues. This goes beyond that now, but thanks to the support of the bill for all the factions. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-22-126	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have until 4 p.m. on Friday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, There is a general debate on the bill amending individual laws from the point of view of industrial and trade regulation and for the purposes of harmonisation of laws until closure. The government referral is T/7694. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Schanda, State Secretary of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-10-22-127	Mr President, thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The draft legislative amendments that have been negotiated before Parliament serve the overall aim of creating the regulatory environment in which Hungarian businesses can work more effectively, because our vision is that Hungary will be among the top five countries in Europe by 2030 where it is best to live, live and work. This requires the development and support of domestic-owned small and medium-sized enterprises. Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises provide more than two thirds of the employees in the business sector and produce more than half of the gross added value. The government's actions for SMEs have caused a steady reduction in administrative and tax burdens in recent years. The Hungarian government is moving in the right direction, and this is clearly shown by the fact that based on the surveys, entrepreneurs also have a positive view of the development of their own corporate financial results and economic policy directions, they are optimistic about their vision, they are looking for opportunities to move forward. We are currently in the period of growth, industrial production increased by 5.6 percent in January-August 2019 compared to the same period of the previous year. There is an EU and domestic regulatory framework for sustainable growth in industrial production. The proper regulation of trade in products, the simplification and clarification of the system of professional qualifications, the harmonisation provisions are all intended to ensure that transparent, market-friendly regulation is in place in Hungary. These amendments are intended for this purpose. [[13.30]] Dear Parliament, The amendments in this bill serve to achieve the objectives detailed above. Allow me, therefore, to present briefly the planned changes. The amendment to the Act on the recognition of foreign certificates and diplomas has two aims. On the one hand, the bill makes the rules of a new EU directive part of the law, and on the other hand it aims at adopting amendments to an infringement procedure. In the case of the adoption of the latter amendment, the definition of a cross-border service is primarily clarified by the law, but it becomes clear that in the case of cross-border services, so-called ex ante control of domestic bodies is only possible in the case of a profession having a public health or public security dimension. The proposal also provides that the national authority may refrain from prior verification of the qualification at its own discretion. Turning to another reason for amending the law, we call a regulated profession an activity the exercise of which is subject to a specific professional qualification. The flexibility of the labour market, which may be limited by the over-regulation of certain professional activities, is a key factor for the national economy. A new regulated profession can only be introduced as a result of an amendment to the Act on the Recognition of Foreign Certificates and Certificates if the detailed requirements of necessity and proportionality are met. The amendment has also beneficial effects in terms of labour market and competitiveness, as there will be fewer regulatory restrictions in regulated professions. The amendment also complies with the EU Directive on the proportionality test prior to the adoption of new rules on professions. 21X of 2004 on certain amendments to the law relating to accession to the European Union The purpose of the amendment is to clarify the provisions on the reporting of official data arising from international and Union obligations. The amendment to the Act authorising the production of military technical products and the provision of military technical services clarifies the definition of military and military technical products, making it clear that only products listed in the Annex to the Government Decree on detailed rules for licensing and certification of military technical activities are covered by this Act. In addition, the current law obliges the granting of an activity authorisation to carry out a prior national security check, but this is a disproportionate restriction and the repeal of the provision is therefore justified. According to the Fundamental Law, Hungary provides conditions for fair economic competition. In addition to the sale of precious metals, the acquisition activity will be regulated by the amendment of the Trade Act. This essentially promotes the activities of fair-functioning businesses and also reduces the chances of money laundering by buying in. The free movement of goods law and the Services Act will also be amended. However, these amendments are purely legal in nature and are intended to comply with EU law, as Hungary helps to ensure the consistency of international law and Hungarian law in order to fulfil its obligations under international law as laid down in the Fundamental Law. I have already pointed out that one of the government's main objectives is to strengthen businesses and reduce their administrative burden. The amendment of the National Accreditation Act, with the implementation of the paperless office, will help to reduce red tape, shorten administrative deadlines and create a more uniform and simpler process in the field of accreditation. The amendments make the accreditation body's procedure more transparent and more predictable for customers. Dear Parliament, The government is determined to create a well-understood and competitive regulatory environment for domestic businesses. A well-designed market-friendly legal environment will help businesses to work, and understandable and transparent regulation will make it easier for them to plan official authorisation procedures. In addition, clear rules that can be implemented will help the authorities to fulfil their tasks in a uniform way, and uniform official work will make it easier for businesses to plan both the time needed and the resource needed for authorisation procedures. The bill can contribute to reducing administrative and financial burdens for Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and increasing their competitiveness. In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-22-128	Thank you, Secretary Schanda. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr László Böröcz, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-10-22-129	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As you have heard in the State Secretary's Expo, T/7694 on the amendment of certain laws before you from the point of view of industrial and trade regulation and harmonisation of laws. Parliamentary resolution No.3 has several essential elements in terms of industrial and trade regulation, some of which I would like to mention. One of the key pillars of the proposal for a decision is the fulfilment of our obligations to harmonise EU legislation. According to EU Directive 2018/958, freedom to choose a profession is a fundamental right. The European Union's legal charter guarantees freedom of choice and freedom of business. Freedom of movement for workers, freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services are fundamental principles of the internal market, as laid down in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. National rules governing access to regulated professions should therefore not create undue or disproportionate obstacles to the exercise of these fundamental rights. In the absence of specific provisions laid down in Union law harmonising the requirements for access to or exercise of regulated professions, it is within the competence of the Member State to decide whether or not it intends to regulate a particular profession within the framework of the principle of non-discrimination and the principle of proportionality and, if so, in what way. The purpose of the amendment to Act C of 2001 on the recognition of foreign certificates and diplomas is to comply with the Directives on the proportionality test to be carried out prior to the adoption of new regulations on professions. The amendment has a positive impact on both labour market and competitiveness, given that the number of regulatory restrictions to be introduced in the future in the regulated professions is expected to be lower. [[Attila Gelencsér takes his place in the notary seat.]] Dear House, Other elements of the proposal for a decision include more effective action against money laundering in the field of the acquisition of precious metals through the use of trade control tools, industrial regulation, accreditation, construction economy and commercial areas. The 2005 CLXIV on trade. Law 1691/2018 on the measures taken as a result of the review of the national risk assessment against money laundering and terrorist financing As provided for in the 2004 Government Decision. The purpose of the amendment is to make the purchase of precious metals subject to notification under the Commercial Act, thereby reducing the possibility of money laundering by buying-in. The acquisition of precious metals, like its distribution, will have to be notified to the commercial authority. The amendment concerns marketing and buying-in undertakings and helps to ensure the conditions of fair economic competition. The amendment of the National Accreditation Act aims to facilitate the reduction of red tape in the procedure of the National Accreditation Authority, as well as the shortening of administrative time limits, the establishment of a more uniform and simpler process in the field of accreditation. [[13.40]] In addition, the amendment allows for a more effective decision-making process and the procedure of the National Accreditation Authority becomes more transparent and more predictable for customers. Dear Parliament, There is no alternative to legislation resulting from the obligation to harmonise legislation in the case of regulated professions and the regulation of the mutual recognition of goods marketed in the EU Member State. The amendment has no substantial impact on discriminatory burdens, no significant social, economic, financial and political consequences. 1691/2018 on measures taken as a result of the review of the national risk assessment against money laundering and terrorist financing The implementation of a government decision has no social, economic, financial or political consequences, but has a positive impact on fair traders. CXXIV of 2015 on national accreditation. The amendment of the Act constitutes an important obligation for customers to adapt to the exclusivity of the electronic administration procedure for clients who are natural persons, but also reduces their administrative and financial burden. Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, the proposal before us contains forward-looking provisions, since its main objectives include, among other things, more effective action against money laundering, cutting red tape, ensuring conditions for fair economic competition and increasing the competitiveness of the economy. In the light of what has been said, I believe that the proposal should be supported, and I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the bill, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-22-130	Thank you very much, Congressman Böröcz. I now give the floor to Mr Zoltán Balczó, the lead speaker of the Group of Jobbik.
u2019-10-22-131	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, When I heard the introduction to the Secretary of State's exposé, I was happy to think that I didn't have to take a PISA test in my life, because I would have failed in writing. When I got the lead speakership of this salad law as a task, I read the bill itself, its justification. I have not found the coherence you have said that these seven laws are clearly linked by the further support and development of small and medium-sized enterprises, which is the basis of their economic policy. Then I'll ask you, I don't see how the commercialisation of the purchase of precious metals in the case of anti-money laundering dynamics small and medium-sized enterprises. It is right that they do so, because there may have been small, medium-sized enterprises that have laundered money in this area, but it is good that they cease to exist. I do not see the extent to which EU rules on military technical manufacturing help a multitude of small and medium-sized enterprises and I could go further on to the different content of the seven law-adapted salad laws. By the way, let me add that, in one respect, the vote will not be as difficult, so it will not be as difficult as the few here, who were here between 1998 and 2002, as Mr Vitányi, when the Fidesz government presented Members with the task of deciding by a law, by a final vote, on the authorisation and prohibition of maternity, also known as surrogacy, and the authorisation and prohibition of AC fishing. It was about the birth of one human life, the killing of the other fish, and we had the chance to vote "yes" or "no" for the two. I'll tell you why we don't have such a serious problem: these are really harmonisation supplements, there's a directive among them, there's still some playing field, the rest is a clear regulation. So let us be aware that when we talk about this, we are our playing field. I quote from the grounds of the law: the EU 2019/515. Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 April 2020 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data and on the free movement of such data shall be binding in its entirety So, while I have no fundamental content objection, of course, by becoming members of the Union, these regulations will apply even if this harmonisation is not achieved, but, of course, it is right to do so. And let me quote an important part of this salad law. The law refers to the assessment and proportionality requirements of regulated professions, so that I do not repeat those speakers in front of me here is that if an EU citizen wishes to work in another country and his profession is a regulated profession, i.e. a profession which requires the adoption of a diploma or diploma, he may have to apply for recognition of professional qualifications before entering into work, and the directive specifies that there are no arbitrary grounds for refusal or exclusion. Let us imagine or ask whether this rule helps small and medium-sized enterprises. So today, the labour migration in the EU is that from Germany, Austria, people with qualifications, degrees or qualifications are arriving in Hungary, and they are taking jobs in small and medium-sized enterprises? No, not at all. Unfortunately, this labour flow is exactly the opposite. So what really matters to us is how this directive will be transposed in Austria, Germany, because it depends on the conditions under which qualified people who are forced to leave Hungary can work there. And here we heard so much today, yesterday, that the Hungarian economy is soaring. Let me say a few words about this, and they even had a poster like this at the municipal elections: Hungary owns one of the most dynamically developing economies in the EU. The reason why GDP is not the only measure for a country's economy is because in Hungary more than half of GDP is produced by foreign, predominantly multinational companies. We know how they can optimize the tax, what they have to pay, what cost factors they can show to the parent company, and then repatriate profits, so it is quite obvious that it did not affect the Hungarian electorate. You've seen the billboard, as far as I know, the fourth most growing economy. Then let me add what they're experiencing. They experience what wages are like in Hungary. I give data for 2018: Hungary is ahead of the Latvians, the Romanians, the Bulgarians, and the other countries stand before us on average in net wages. And let's talk about the Visegrád countries. In the Visegrád countries, the annual net wage is 8630 euros in Hungary, 9237 euros in Slovakia, 7 percent more, 9512 euros in Poland, 10.2 percent more, 11 266 euros in the Czech Republic, 30.5 percent more. The EU average is 24,700, 186 percent more. And the reason for this is precisely that the small and medium-sized enterprises which are now being referred to as being essentially assisted by this package of laws have not been given the resources that you have spent in support of multinational companies for a long time, and this is the result of these net wages in Hungary. Therefore, from this amendment of the law, which makes it clear how to recognise diplomas and professions, Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises will not benefit from the incoming foreign labour force. 'Cause there's foreign labor coming in, sure. [[13.50]] But the economy in Orbán is based on building on cheap labour, in this production chain, in the global production chain, on a low level of involvement. Of course, there is incoming foreign workforce, of course, there is incoming from Ukraine, Vietnam, only they do not have to accept their diplomas, and this keeps Hungarian wages so low among other things. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-10-22-132	Thank you very much, Congressman Balczó. Dear Parliament, A representative of the MSZP is not present, and the representative of the dialogue has withdrawn, so we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches. I now give the floor for a two-minute speech to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP.
u2019-10-22-133	Thank you very much. Mr President, I have just one question for the Honourable Secretary of State, since my fellow Member Balczó has analysed the law in very detail. There is a clause in the case of military technical products which suggests that, due to the disproportionate additional burden, the national security control, which has so far been required, would be abolished by the author. I couldn't find any more justifications in the law. If Mr Secretary of State might have something to say about the need to abolish national security controls for military technical products suppliers, it would help. I understand there's a difference between a public supplier and a non-state supplier, but we're still talking about military technology. And where there is a state order at the end is another question. You can't have a lot of other clients like the state somewhere at the end. So if you could tell me what the specific reason for this is, I'd appreciate it. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2019-10-22-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik Group.
u2019-10-22-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I did not think I would comment on this proposal. Zoltán Balczó, my fellow Member, said earlier that he was looking for what the Secretary of State justified in the proposal itself, and he was also looking for what this proposal had to do with supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, because it does not. But what is very important is in it, and it was so fair, Mr. Secretary of State, that, for a sentence, it was woven into its text, and this is the 18th. The new legislation in Section 2 of the Act provides that there is an additional burden on national security control in relation to the acquisition of military equipment in the entrepreneurship circle. Well, hold on a second. The military equipment is for military use. I thought that today in Hungary defence is a state task and a state monopoly. Well, at the time, the legislator stipulated that the exchange and transfer of military technology in any relation would require national security control, because, with that effect, military equipment can be transferred to a Governor of the Islamic State in Hungary the day after tomorrow on a private road. In one of his sentences, he talks about money laundering as a dangerous phenomenon on the international stage. Indeed, the economy of many countries is poor because the lack of economic performance due to money laundering is damaging its profitability. Well, wait a minute. I know that we always try, at least from the opposition side, to take a positive approach to good proposals, to take a supportive approach, not to mess around, not to get involved in sentences or half words. But let's just think about why suddenly this harmonisation of legislation with content is because there is at least one proposal for harmonisation before the House every month, why it is now, why it is with this content, and why the justification and the content of the legislation are not harmonised at all. If I do nothing but look through today's legislative proposals, each one has a very powerful foundation, has a reason, has a purpose, can negotiate well, helps to improve living conditions, and the other, ratification of international conventions is important, and it comes to this, which if you start reading, you say something is wrong here. It's for hiding something. Well, it's for hiding this, and it's for the 18th. §, which I would quote literally because it is important to explain:. The requirements of the national security requirement for farmers represent an undue additional burden, so it is necessary to delete them. Public suppliers may have access to national security controls, but it is not justified to impose general conditions on all undertakings. S then writes what legislation contains the conditions that we are talking about and says that it is therefore repealing this section of the 2005 Law on the authorisation of the production of military technical products and the provision of military technical services. Well, I'm sorry, so that's how much power the private sector can make and distribute military technology do whatever they want! I do not know whose purpose is the unlimited presence and uncontrolled activity of military technology-producing entrepreneurs in Hungary. Believe me, if we vote for this, they will come here the day after tomorrow, and not only from the European Union, but from all over the world, companies of this kind will make their headquarters here, and they will not produce them here, but they will perform it here because we are a country that is so important, so relaxed in terms of our national security. The day after tomorrow, the drugs will be legalized in manufacturing and everything. Let's think about this. Think about it. I would ask the Secretary of State to discuss this with his own ministry. And then comes the 19th. § 2, which states that it is set out in the Annex to such and such a Government Decision on measures taken as a result of the review of the national risk assessment against money laundering and terrorist financing. We're talking about the metal trade, and, oh, good, because from now on, it's gonna be a regulated commercial activity and it's gonna reduce money laundering. I'd like to ask you one thing: why wait 30 years for this? 'Cause we know exactly what kind of social group the central metal trading team has ever come from. We also see that this group has not changed since then. The question is why, in the last thirty years, this government has spent four years, now its ninth year, i.e. its thirteenth year in total, in the last thirty years, it has now come to its mind to bring the metal trade into the trading regulated market. What's been going on? Maybe it's not that there's some powerful oligarch who needs to be able to subdue this market right now, and maybe the ability of the players in the market so far, their existence on the ground of not so much legality, should be eliminated because they're trying to channel the entire business into the net of a background oligarch? They can't convince me it's not like that. Because if it weren't for that, they wouldn't be doing it now, on the one hand, and on the other hand, they wouldn't be doing it like this, not hiding it in a salad law with that much sound. And let me tell you, joining my fellow Member, Zoltán Balczó, that in their first term they know one of the most important changes to the prison system in which the bill was made: the last paragraph of the bill on health law. The leaders of the prison organization didn't realize that, oh, my God, an important fundamental factor had changed, because it was called health laws. The last paragraph was about the fundamental role of administrative law in the criminal justice system, so to whom the government is bound, what the responsibilities are. It was the last stage of a medical law! [[Dr. László György Lukács is replaced by Dr. László Varga.]] The only reason I'm saying this, please, is because we see how relationships influenced by certain individual interests are brought before this House, wrapped up in very nice sounds, very eligible, very, very proposals, but the truth is that everyone has learned how to fidesz on this side, and we always see and always find out where the trap is hidden. [[14.00]] With all due respect, we are pleased about the regulation of the metal trade, because at least it does reduce the black incomes somewhat to rethink this war technical issue, we ask you very nicely, because this is not going to work! Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-10-22-136	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I do not see an applicant, the general debate is closed, and I give the floor to Mr State Secretary on behalf of the rapporteur to answer the questions raised.
u2019-10-22-137	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the floor and thank you very much for your comments. What I would like to say here in relation to the issues raised in the debate is that the amendment relating to the purchase of precious metals helps fair market businesses, supports their operation, and the regulation of the acquisition removes the possibility of money laundering. I think that this can only be seen as an advantage for all fair operators. On the issue of military technology, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this will simplify and facilitate the authorisation procedure. Public suppliers may, of course, continue to have a place for national security control, but it is not justified for all undertakings to be required as general conditions. Thank you very much for what has been said in this debate, and thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-10-22-138	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill amending certain laws concerning the real estate register and certain administrative procedures until closure. The government referral is T/7693. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Tuzson, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda.
u2019-10-22-139	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The bill before us contains an amendment to the Real Estate Registration Act and the Law on surveying and mapping activities. These are partly technical amendments, but there are also proposals to reduce red tape, as well as provisions to facilitate traineeships, the exercise of the profession, and there are provisions to bring the legislation relating to the real estate register into line with the current data protection rules. Accordingly, the rules for clarification are included in Article 14 of the Real Estate Registration Act. the amendment and amendment of §2 of the Act. This is about the fact that the central address register automatically receives certain data from the real estate register. This is also right and well, however, there are properties, namely public property, where the regulation and practice are a little different, where a real estate registration procedure is required to make such a definition of the property. There is a technical clarification here so that these properties can then be included in the real estate register, so that they can also be included in the title data. Another objective is to clarify and replace the rules on data reporting from the map database and the Agricultural Parcell Identification System. Here there are several provisions which are not covered by the rules on the registration of immovable property or by the scope of the regulation of the law, so they are replaced by these rules. The amendment resulting in a bureaucracy reduction is set out in Article 28 of the Real Estate Registration Act. the amendment of §2 of the Act. This is because if a given property consists of two sub-sections with different branches of cultivation and a change between these sub-details, thus eliminating the sub-description limit, the current legislation requires the submission of a frame drawing as an unnecessary cost and time, although here, for example, if a property is partially ploughing and partly fruity, there is a boundary between them, but the property becomes entirely orcharded, then such a real estate registration procedure must be carried out. However, these data are available in the real estate register, these amendments can also be made on their own initiative, so there is no need for a separate procedure in this case, this will relieve citizens of unnecessary burdens and, of course, the public administration from the other side. There will also be changes in the survey law: the method of calculating and transferring the area error. This is the case in the case of a spatial error where we can transfer certain data in the real estate register as an error, which otherwise does not affect the ownership and ownership conditions at all, so they can be transferred automatically. Here, however, there is a question of interpretation, which relates partly to administrative practice and partly to judicial practice, and the unity between the two must be established. Accordingly, it is now changing and the interpretation is clarified by the current amendment of the law. The surveying law also contains detailed rules on the extraneousity of endorsements, thus clarifying how these cases should be dealt with and these rules raised to a legal level. There is a deadline for endorsement in the law, a 25-day deadline, which is on the one hand the Ákr. It is also necessary to amend it because of the new administrative order that has entered into force and because of the 25-day deadline. Here, it is worth introducing the general rules, because even if an on-the-spot check, an on-the-spot check or a check-up is carried out, the retention of the 25-day deadline will become doubtful and this rule must be brought into line with the Akr. With its rules, it is worth the general rules now that we have Ákr., to apply. It is also the provision that facilitates the pursuit of the profession, which means, on the one hand, a change in the so-called IRM, i.e. a change in the rating of the real estate director. This certification has been issued until now until withdrawal, but now technical changes are such that it is worth thinking about, as this profession is constantly changing, digitalization creates new tools, so it is worth publishing these ratings for five years and renewing them every five years, as this world has such a rapid change, they are carrying out these activities with more precise and more complex instruments, so that this activity can be renewed through appropriate training and this qualification for a period of five years. There was a provision in the legislation earlier, which made it hard enough for such professionals to obtain this IRM qualification, so it linked it to different qualifications that, in fact, have had decades of experience, otherwise excellent professionals out of this area. This legislation will also remedy this now. Data protection issues and data protection issues need to be addressed, as this so-called IRM register, the register of qualified professionals is correctly a public register, so everyone can have access to this register and get to know the persons who are included in it. At the same time, you could learn almost all of this person's data, which is not in line with current data protection principles, GDPR regulation, and it is therefore necessary that certain personal data should not be accessed. This is necessary in today's world, especially because of the importance of personal data, which is becoming increasingly visible at both European and domestic levels. This amendment was therefore made in order to protect the identity of natural persons. It also includes a change to the entry into force of the law on sanctions for administrative infringements, our current legislation and our proposed legislation. It is a matter of ensuring that the records of administrative sanctions must be an extremely important and accurate register, ensuring that the appropriate authorities have access to this. [[14.10]] No uncertainty is possible here, there can be no uncertainty about such a register, so we believe that the preparation time must be guaranteed, so we propose extending this deadline to 1 January 2020. To sum up, therefore, these provisions are included in the current legislative amendment and I ask the Honourable Parliament to support it and to adopt the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-10-22-140	Thank you, Secretary of State Tuzson Bence. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Herczeg, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-10-22-141	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps an hour ago in connection with the debate on the Geneva Road Transport Convention, Dr. Andrea Varga-Damm, lead speaker at Jobbik, said that the history of that presentation or that convention has such abundant literature that a law student could certainly expect a five if he wrote a thesis from it. I am neither a law student nor a lawyer, but this current amendment contains so many technical elements that I try to express with literal precision. So, the T/7693 on the House table. The important objective of the bill is to amend legislation relating to the real estate register and other administrative procedures on a legal basis. The basic objective is to make it as transparent, efficient and simple as possible for Hungarian citizens to deal with the above mentioned procedures, of course standing on the ground of legal certainty. In addition to what has now been said, it should be noted that some parts of the proposal submitted contain substantive amendments, in addition to the intention of clarification and technology. Dear House, The bill before us aims to settle the rules for reporting data from the State Property Register Map Database and the Agricultural Parcell Identification System, in such a way that it intends to incorporate these standards into the legislation with sufficient material effect. In view of the fact that the provision of data from those databases is not subject to the Law on Real Estate Recording and that there is a specific law in force concerning the operation, management and other data transmission of these systems, which includes specific standards, so that the relevant provisions of the Law on Real Estate Recording have become obsolete, in addition to the simultaneous amendment of the Law on Geological and Cartography and the Law on certain aspects of the Agriculture, Agricultural Rural Development and Fisheries Aid and Other Measures Act. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal submitted seeks to repeal the law amending certain laws relating to the entry into force of the law on sanctions for infringements of administrative rules, in order to ensure that all amendments to the law relating to the subsequent entry into force of the sanction law are settled uniformly in this proposal, in order to comply with the constitutional requirements of the legislation. In order to achieve this, it will, on the one hand, amend the entry into force of the Sanctions Act to 1 January 2021 and, on the other hand, extend the scope of the Act containing transitional provisions and amendments to the reform of administrative procedural law until 1 January 2021. It is also worth mentioning that the public policy objective is to amend the entry into force of the standards for the registration of civil servants by 1 January 2021 by amending the law on administrative bureaucracy and the simplification of certain administrative procedures. It is also important that another text-exchange amendment allows elected officials to carry out their activities by 1 May 2021, irrespective of registration. Dear House, As regards the regulation of the real estate register, it is part of the reduction of bureaucracy, and it is therefore perhaps important to say that, under the legislation currently in force, the removal of the sub-detail between the two sub-sections concerned, in the case of two sub-sections being divided into the same branches, entails an obligation to sketch, as the Secretary of State has said. However, after the amendment, the real estate transfer will not require the applicant to submit a crop change plan. Dear Parliament, The aim of preparing the proposal before us is to ensure that the legislation to be regulated complies with the rule of law, that is to say, the principles of clarity, accessibility and legal certainty. It is essential for proper interpretation and application of the law to clarify certain entries and to insert the correct term technique. In view of this, the Fidesz Group supports the adoption of the proposed legislation. I respectfully ask all my fellow Members to do the same. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-10-22-142	Thank you very much, Congressman Tamás Herczeg. I now give the floor to Mr Zoltán Balczó, the lead speaker of the Group of Jobbik.
u2019-10-22-143	Mr President, thank you for the floor. In fact, this bill is also a package of proposals in which the government intends to change the tax law, the real estate registration law, the agricultural aid law, the law on surveying activities, the general administrative law, the law on penalties for administrative violations, the law on reduction of bureaucracy. However, there is a link between these because they serve two purposes, these amendments apply to two areas: they are partly linked to the real estate register and partly related to administrative procedures. Basically technical amendments to existing legislation, and we see that these changes are justified by everyday practice, have become necessary on the basis of it, and in view of this, the Jobbik fraction will support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-10-22-144	Thank you very much, Congressman Balczó. I now give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2019-10-22-145	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to repeat what Parliamentary Secretary Bence Tuzson said in his exposé, and Tamás Herczeg has already said in his keynote speech, so I will limit myself to the following. T/7693. The purpose of the bill is twofold. On the one hand, technical clarification and, on the other, reduction of bureaucracy. For these purposes, the bill would amend eight laws and repeal one. I thought, for example, that I would tell you, but my fellow Member, Zoltán Balczó, has listed these laws in a certain way, and I would therefore disregard that. Ladies and Gentlemen, T/7693. Legislative bill No 1 also concerns areas of substance in relation to changes to property registration and survey laws. I think it is important to present and stress that, under the current rules, the removal of the sub-detail between two sub-sections concerned, if two sub-sections are to be divided into the same branches, entails an obligation to draw sketches at the moment. This means, as Mr. Secretary of State has already said, that, in the case of a plough and a sub-department with an orchard, in the real estate, let us say, the whole property becomes orchard, in the future, this should not have to be accompanied by a real estate authority clause, a change plan should be submitted, the sub-department may also be terminated ex officio on the basis of mere facts, which is included in this legal provision. [[14.20]] Ladies and Gentlemen, An important change is that in cases in which a change plan is still to be submitted, the citizen can automatically receive an opportunity, subjective, by paying the endorsement fee, to consider his application without paying an extra charge. I also consider it important to make a change that, in order to take more account of data protection rules, the registration of natural persons' identity data, i.e. the Geological Law 25/A, is included in the records of the Geological and Terrain Administration. Paragraph 3 (a) is amended to replace the text of the identity data of the natural person only with the text of the name of the natural person. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, and on the basis of what has already been detailed by the speakers before me, I would like to ask you to support T/7693. The Parliamentary Group of the KDNP also supports bill No 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-10-22-146	Thank you very much, Congressman Vejkey. I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2019-10-22-147	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, All my fellow Members so fantastically analysed this law, gave it back so precisely and accurately and because we ourselves are convinced that this law is in the interest of the Hungarian country and the citizens of Hungary, that we naturally support this proposal. So I would like to say much more, in case my fellow Member, László Varga, will add to what I have said. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-10-22-148	Thank you very much, Congressman Mesterházy. I now give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2019-10-22-149	Dear House, Mr President, In the case of this bill, we also consider that it is basically an amendment of a technical type, which addresses previous legislative imbalances and, on the other hand, opens the way for the necessary and important development of the real estate registration system, simplifying the work of citizens. The reason why I cannot yet comment is that we are in favour of the bill, because we would like to clarify quite precisely how this is affecting the so-called unfit assets of the local government. We have legal concerns here, but basically we have no fundamental doubts or problems with the bill. Later, we will establish our position on the bill.
u2019-10-22-150	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Arató. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to Mr Bence Tuzson, State Secretary, whether he wishes to respond, on behalf of the authors, to what has been said in the debate.
u2019-10-22-151	Thank you very much for the floor. On the one hand, I would like to thank the parties and the factions for giving their support to this bill in the majority. It is indeed a forward-looking bill, but what my fellow Member Arató said is of great importance. We're preparing to renew the real estate register, by the way. Here a serious change will be needed in the next period. The system of our real estate register is a real estate register that can be traced back to the time of Maria Theresa. The same system of real estate registration exists for the Czech Republic, Austria, Slovakia, the countries of the former Austro-Hungarian Monarchy, but time has moved forward and we have entered a different era as a result of digitalisation, so we will also need dogmatical changes, and the whole property register will have to be transferred to an electronic registration fund, which will also change the country's competitiveness and even make forward changes in this area. This is a bigger job, because the real estate register is 60 percent of our national assets, and 25 percent of GDP goes through this system. So it's a big job on the side of legal work, on the other hand, on the IT side, it's gonna be a two-year period, two-year work, according to our current calculations. In this, too, we will certainly count on the support of the governing parties, and on the other hand, as it is a matter which is a national matter, I hope we will also be able to count on the support of opposition parties in this respect. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-10-22-152	Thank you, Secretary of State Tuzson Bence. Dear Parliament, You have until 4 p.m. on Friday to submit the amendments. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. The speeches after the agenda would follow, but the two right-wing Members who have asked for this are not present, so we will overlook that. Dear Parliament, Therefore, post-meeting speeches do not take place, and I thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its meeting on Thursday at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Thank you for your work.
