u2019-05-28-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. Németh Szilárd István towards Zsolt Gréczy and László Hajdu: Stand up, this is the President! Two representatives of DK will remain seated. Péter Cseresnyés: There was no nursery, it's that simple! When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning, fellow Members, have a seat. Dear Parliament, The 16th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and György Szilágyi, notaries, will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who are monitoring our work today. We now have speeches before the agenda. Mr Zsolt Gréczy, Member of the DK Group, entitled Spring 2019 of Hungary, applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-05-28-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Let me begin by saying that the Democratic Coalition appreciates the European Parliament elections as pro-European forces have won, and those who choose to shut down, to have xenophobia mixed with racism, are in a minority, if I may, from now on they will eat their dinner at the cat table instead of putting Hungary at the main table. But there's been a lot of other things going on this weekend, and I have to draw attention to one of these interesting phenomena, because in the battle of the parliamentary election, this news is almost embezzled. Just before the vote the day before yesterday, some 30 emergency officers were ordered to Kisvárda to help speed up border controls between Hungary and Ukraine at the border crossing in Zahony. The police have confirmed the fact of the action, but according to official information, the action has nothing to do with the European Parliament elections on Sunday. At other times, we do not hear that police officers are being led down to the Ukrainian border to free the corridor, which was considered extremely important just one or two days before the election and on the day of the election. This timing is interesting, too, because a year earlier the NewsTV programme knew, when Lajos Simicska was not yet his bag-bearer, or yes or no, I do not understand this now, but you will clarify this, so this showed that during the parliamentary elections in 2018, a significant number of Ukrainian-Hungarian dual citizens with a fictitious address in Hungary were transported to settlements close to the border to vote for Fidesz-KDNP candidate Attila Tilki. The Democratic Coalition also filmed on the scene, and we showed the houses that were about to collapse, where about 100-150 Ukrainian citizens were reported to be living in these huts. Obviously the goal was that these people who were registered there would cast their votes. Hungarian citizens living in Transcarpathia, Ukraine, can vote by letter, but the personal vote is still very popular, but it requires a Hungarian address. The question therefore arises as to why, just before the election, it was necessary to ensure a faster crossing at the Ukrainian border. Is this about Fidesz having some people travel to vote for Fidesz again, and this brings back the election fraud? Even before they put on that cheap record that the Democratic Coalition is hurting Hungarians across the border again, there is no such thing. The Democratic Coalition does not hurt Hungarians beyond the borders, but we condemn election fraud, we hate it when people walk across the border and vote for Fidesz only to return this gesture in exchange for this citizenship. By the way, I would like to add that we agree with János Áder's 1993 parliamentary speech. At the time, János Áder said: Fidesz disagrees with the vote in Hungary by those who do not accept the consequences. That's what János Áder said in 1993. True, at that time Fidesz was still a member of the Liberal International, and all the leaders of the same Fidesz were still on the payroll of the Soros Foundation. But the Fidesz has changed. Luckily... [[Dr. Pál Völner: Didn't they take you in?]] What? Mr Secretary of State, who is famous for his predictions before the Election Committee, now thought that he should comment on my comment. [[Dr. Pál Völner:...look at the Curia judgment.]] Yeah. You think there was a verdict in a case that wasn't even a trial. But the point is, the Democratic Coalition is calling attention to the fact that there is no election fraud. We're not sure at all that this didn't happen again. So when Fidesz bangs his boobs with 1.7 million people voting for him, we don't know how much fraud has happened. We know that this has happened with an amazing campaign of tens of billions of dollars in advertising, while opposition parties have been pushed out of a large part of the public, and I would add that this also meant that Fidesz lost one million voters compared to April last year, and the Democratic Coalition is the only parliamentary party that has been able to increase its electoral number. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-05-28-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the government, we will hear the answer from Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2019-05-28-3	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. For days, we have been watching the interesting attempt that the Democratic Coalition has been trying to prove that Fidesz has practically lost this election. That's an interesting arithmetic attempt. It's like they're trying to prove that 52 percent is less than 16 we call it, say, Gyurcsány snout. I would like to inform you that this has not yet been proven, nor will it, according to the state of science today. It's always a smile when a loser party takes his election defeat to all kinds of outside circumstances. And that is, let's say, absolutely outrageous, that, if I understand correctly, you are once again Ukrainianizing foreign Hungarians. We wouldn't be so sensitive if it weren't for your party that has been annoying Hungarians from abroad for years, and you wouldn't have been the ones who were teasing Hungarians against Hungarians before December 5, 2004. Speaking of communication, you have distributed leaflets, including government money, about how much it would cost one Hungarian abroad to have given citizenship, and we know afterwards that this proved to be a lie. So I would ask you here, too, to use the new election cycle, the European, to think about certain things that are important to the country. It's a cross-border union. Don't insult Hungarian against Hungarians, I would like to ask you with respect. And as far as other aspects of the election are concerned, there are several interpretations, and I acknowledge that you have one. Your politics and ours are clearly separated by a world [[Zsolt Gréczy: And how proud we are of it!]] because the campaign also said that you would strengthen the bureaucracy in Brussels, and we would strengthen the nation states. [[Zsolt Gréczy: We never said that!]] This is a clear choice, and Hungarian citizens have told us what they want. You would leave the most important decisions to someone else, and we would like it to remain in the hands of the Hungarians. You have gone to Brussels to report the dozens of embarrassing letters, embarrassing actions, and our representatives have represented and fought for their country. You are in constant need of alignment in Brussels, but the Prime Minister is taking action out of the interests of the country and, if necessary, will be involved in the debates. It is not the convenience that will determine the foreign policy that the government is pursuing. [[9.10]] Even today, negotiations between the individual political families on who should be the new leaders in Brussels in the EU institutions are starting. We told you our point of view in the campaign. We want leaders who do not take rights from Member States, enforce security aspects and take action, among other things, against migration. That's what's important for us. I am bringing this up, honourable Member, because your top candidate, Mr Timmermans, does not meet these criteria. It is not enough to raise the corporate tax rate to 18 percent you know, which would mean a doubling compared to the level of domestic corporate tax, but it would practically open up Europe's doors even wider than before. It supports resettlement, attacks the border lock and gives more money to countries that support immigration, which it has clearly said. That's what your candidate wants. However, we do not ask for any of this, and you can be sure that the Hungarian Prime Minister will be fighting in the negotiations that are starting today to lead the EU institutions, who will also take Hungarian interests into account. We don't want to be viewed as second-rate citizens. And the message that the Hungarian voters sent the day before yesterday is also about this. Finally, I would like to say that you should take advantage of the fact that each new European Parliament cycle also carries the possibility of a fresh start, and I would like to ask you to try it at least once, how it feels to be on the side of the Hungarians. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]]
u2019-05-28-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Tamás Mellar, Member of the Dialogue Group, asked to speak before the agenda on topical matters. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-05-28-5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to relate to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's speech yesterday, where he also spoke about the economy and said that very serious positive economic results have been achieved, and Hungary is performing better. Well, in his first point, he said that Hungarian economic growth is the highest in the European Union and is on a persistently high level. From this, we should obviously conclude that Hungary will then be dynamically catching up with the European Union. If we look at the figures, we see that in 2010 Hungary's GDP per capita was 65 per cent compared to the EU average in 2017, which was 68 per cent, or 3 per cent increase. During the same period Estonia increased its position from 65% to 79 percent, i.e. 14 percentage points; Lithuania from 60 to 78 percent, Latvia from 53 to 67 percent. It can be seen that these countries were able to achieve a 14-18 percentage point increase, compared with only 3 percent of Hungary. Prime Minister also spoke about the dynamic growth in employment between 2010 and 18. That's right. There has been nearly 20 percent increase in employment during this period, which is very impressive, very high. GDP rose by 23.1 percent during the same period, which is also a very good result. However, if we compare the two, we can see that productivity has only increased by 3 percent during this period. Eurostat data also show this. Between 2010-18, according to Eurostat data, Hungarian productivity increased by 5.5 percent. As to how high or not this figure is, let me quote to you the same number of Romania. In Romania, productivity has increased by 42.7 percent compared to 18, i.e. Romania can produce the productivity growth of around 5 per cent that we needed for eight years in one year. Prime Minister also said that our debt-GDP ratio has decreased significantly, so we are going out of the debt trap. Indeed, the figures show that the debt ratio of 80 per cent in 2010 has now decreased to 69 per cent, i.e. to 18 per cent. This is also a welcome fact, but if we calculate that more than 40 per cent of the European Union's GDP was added over this period, then we calculate that 10 per cent of the private pension funds were also used by the government, which means that over an eight-year period more than 50 per cent of the surplus resources were transferred to the Hungarian economy. Compared to this, the 11 percent debt reduction seems to be a very thin result. Finally, as a fourth point, I would like to say that Prime Minister said that the Hungarian economy needs 2 percentage points higher growth than the average of the European Union. If we look at the EU average of 2%, this means that in Hungary we will have to achieve 4 percent economic growth in the coming years. This will be done by 2030, because he and President Matolcsy are counting on this horizon as well... that means that nearly 50 percent of GDP growth is to be achieved. But how and from what, once we have seen productivity not increase significantly and there is no domestic workforce? By the way, let's say there is an annual productivity increase of 1 percent and a 1% annual resource withdrawal from home. This means that an increase of 2 percent is required each year. But how can this be created? Obviously with guest workers. This means that by 2030 at least one million migrant workers will have to be brought to Hungary. I don't know how the government calculated that. By the way, Prime Minister spoke before 2010 about the need for at least one million migrant workers. And what we do see is that workers' hostels are built everywhere, not for Hungarian and Ukrainian migrant workers. So, perhaps the Prime Minister's favourite song needs to be redesigned and then sung in such a way that I wish you a good evening. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The Ukrainians from Fehérvár are here. Thank you very much.
u2019-05-28-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, replied to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-05-28-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Congressman! There's a joke in the right-wing press, but it's basically a very serious statement and a series of articles, I don't know if you're reading these. In these, the right-wing press collects basically left-wing economists and the predictions made by economists, which, standing on the ground of reality, proved to be quite surreal, and it turned out that they were nothing more than ignominious lies. These were not facts, these were not predictions, but those were wishes on the part of left-wing economists. They wanted the country to fail. They wanted the country not to be turned into economic growth, and they wanted this economic growth not to be stabilised. They wanted us to fail to continue convergence. Moreover, for which this is obviously the subject of a joke in the right-wing press, the entire right-wing voting community and political community are therefore named at these people called experts, but unfortunately it is not possible to laugh at them only and exclusively because their responsibility is extremely high; because in economic processes and in the interpretation of economic processes, words have a creative power. So if those economists say, as has been the case with your colleagues, that there will be no economic growth then, it can have an impact on the real economy. And that's what happened. When it was a right-wing government, they predicted lower economic growth when it was a left-wing government, and they always predicted higher economic growth, obviously in order to bring events in a better political direction with the creative power of words. Of course, reality always proves that these allegations cannot be kept, and slowly the legitimacy of the left-wing economic elite and tellers has fallen under the bottom of the frog. I regret to say to you that I listen to your speeches from time to time, and you will join in with these speeches. He joins the left-wing economist company, who always tells us how sure it is, he always tells us how much it is not possible to make an increase of the will of Hungarian people in Hungary, how much it is impossible to maintain growth, how the Hungarian economy will not be able to catch up with the European Union. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right.]] [[9.20]] It's Romania! that is always said, and then reality slowly contradicts these findings. The only reason we're impatient on the government side is because we have to wait, so we always have to wait a year, and after a year, we'll be able to tell you that your forecast didn't work again. The forecast didn't work again, he was wrong again. Again, it seems that he said something based on his own political interests that had nothing to do with reality in relation to the country's economic performance. So the thing is, if I start to respond to your speech right now, I can tell you the facts, and if I have time left, I will tell you a few facts. But actually, I would like to refer to your earlier speeches, because in the case of your previous speeches, the reality always kicked the door at them, and it always turned out that you were wrong. I think, and on behalf of the government, I can tell you that we think you're wrong again. Because the reality is that the Hungarian economy grew by 5.3 percent in the first quarter of 2009; this is the best result among EU Member States, much better than the average of the European Union than the average of the euro zone. What is convergence, if not this? Gross average salary has only increased by 12%. You always question these data, but these are also Eurostat data, so obviously there is also a problem with the European Union. So it's just that wages are growing; there's no fence from sausages, everyone can make one move forward, but wages are increasing, economic performance is increasing, unemployment is falling, investment is increasing. Indeed, according to the data of the KSH, more people born in Hungary have returned home in 2018 than have migrated. So the net migration balance is positive. So you failed not only as an economist, but also as a statistician when you spoke about emigration, because it was simply not true what you said. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-28-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. From the MSZP Group, Mr Lajos Korózs has applied for a speech before the agenda on current matters. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-05-28-9	Good morning. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I think that for six months now, government propaganda has been all about what kind of family support program the government has announced, and then when these proposals are submitted one by one, it turns out that these measures are being applied to as tight a circle as possible and that nothing else was in control of the government but the minimum cost of supporting families. But if we also look at which families we are talking about, we can see that there is a very narrow layer. And I can say the same not only in relation to the family protection action plan, but also in relation to the so-called family building CSOK support, where quite few people can make use of it compared to the number of people who want to live in Hungary and to ensure their housing in Hungary. I am not talking about the fact that this family protection action plan, which will soon be discussed or another chapter will be discussed, for example, one which will also drive women over the age of 40 out of the circle of support, while we know precisely that there are quite a number of people who will have children over that age. The same applies to the aid for the purchase of motor vehicles, where families with one or two children are excluded and only families with multiple children are made available for this support. I can say the same about your grandmother, because retired grandparents will not be able to use her, only those who are employed. [[Péter Cseresnyés: Because pensioners get pension.]] It should be noted that in recent years there has not been a penny increase in child support, motherhood support, and ged, while, of course, I must note that the Grandmamagyes have existed in Hungary for about 18 years. The same category includes the cradle-building program, which I no longer know how many times has been promised, while the number of seats is barely increasing. [[Németh Szilárd István: It's not true! You're lying like a river.]] And it can also be seen that today it would take about 80,000 people in Hungary to have mothers in active employment who want to work to place their children. Summa summarum, who does the government support? It seems that he supports well - earning people, those who have quite a lot of children, and those who want a new apartment. But it's not better in the field of elderly care either. I recently asked the EMMI Minister a written question at the institutions providing long-term accommodation, and the reply revealed that there were 53 689 residences, but only 51 957 were filled. We do not understand that, while there is such a lineup that a large part of the clients who are provided or who are requesting do not take place because they die in the meantime. We know that 34 288 people are waiting today according to the statistics, and, as I said, half of them will never be in a residential nursing home, because unfortunately, they will be dead by then. If you look at the statistics, you can also see that there has been a decrease in the number of beds in the home of psychiatric patients, a radical decrease in the number of beds in the home for disabled people, a decrease in the number of places for addicts, and a significant decrease in the number of homeless people's homes and night shelters. I was talking about accommodations, of course. Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, who is most likely to reply now, has recently written me a letter on my written question and sent me an answer. I asked how many seats they had created in the last year, and this response revealed that the government had provided 47 seats in total. As I mentioned earlier, the number of people with psychiatric problems, the number of people with disabilities, the number of people with addictions and the number of people with no homes has decreased, and if we add them up, we can see that they have created 47 seats, but they have eliminated 678 seats. I know that there are a lot of people here with stats, especially on the government side, I look forward to Mr. Secretary of State's reply. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-05-28-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. As Congressman presumed, on behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-05-28-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Congressman Korós, allow me to quote something you cannot question: your own words. He said that in the area of elderly care, social benefits in general need more space, more support. You had a time when you were a State Secretary in the Socialist Government, and as a member of the Socialist Group, there was also a committee president here in Parliament. Well, at that time, he said a sentence, and let me quote that. Not when he said that neighbors and friends should care for old people, but from this time, literally. [[Lajos Korózs: Lies! You do realize, Mr. Secretary, that's a lie, don't you?!]] Well, if you think your own words are a lie, before I read them, then it's a pretty strong self-image disorder, but I'm not sure it stands out from the Socialist Party's average. [[Defiance on the pro-government side. Lajos Korózs: What you say! What you're saying!]] The voters also sent a strong signal this Sunday.
u2019-05-28-12	Mr. Secretary, one moment. Congressman Korós, you've already told me. This is not the kind of genre in which you can continue, and then you will have one. The floor now belongs to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. I'll count on the time frame for the answer. Here you go.
u2019-05-28-13	So we were talking about boarding school social services. You said: but I also know the state normative which, by the way, the tax forints add to this fee that families pay. [[Lajos Korózs: Yes!]] You have confirmed it now, and you have said that the state spends too much on caregivers, that less state aid should be given to caregivers, honourable Member, and now you are speaking here, and you are trying to say the opposite. As far as your entire speech is concerned, honourable Member, I think that any foximaxin could have been said or analysed as a true class warrior. After all, if you were talking about someone, family people, others, some kind of state discount, some kind of support from the community, the Hungarian state from their common tax dollars, you were talking to the others here in the last five minutes, who did not receive this support to be envious of them, you want to take it away from them. It is opposed to those who have children younger or older, between families with families and families, families with one child and families with multiple children. Typical class warrior logic is that all the extras, all the discounts that fortunately have now been generated by the surplus value that is created in Hungary, we can give to the Hungarian families, you called everyone to envy this, and you said that this is why there should be a conflict within society. [[9.30]] This is typical class-fighting thinking, this is the logic of the left, to stimulate conflict and tension between social groups because sometimes one step forward, sometimes the other step forward, and when one step forward, then the other step forward, then one step forward. This is what I think Hungarian people do not want, and which, by the way, is a token of failure in all countries. Because if people are always jealous of someone who can make some progress, then that country cannot be successful in the long term; on the other hand, we trust national cooperation. As a result of this, honourable Member, because you said that families, who are helped by the government, poor families, rich families, are constantly saying and trying to believe this, and I, as State Secretary Orbán, quote you from Eurostat statistics, because you do not usually question so much if you look at the proportion of people under the age of 18 who live in poverty or social exclusion, so poor families with children, so I could translate it into Hungarian, their proportion in the European Union has decreased from 27,6 percent in 2010 to 24 percent today, so in the European Union such a decrease is visible, whereas in Hungary we were much higher than in Hungary, we were almost 10 percent higher than the EU average, because we did not have 27 percent, but 38 percent in 2010 for such families, but we are now well below the EU average, because the EU reduction went from 27 to 24 percent, in Hungary the proportion of children at risk of poverty, to 23... [[Lajos Korózs intervenes.]] Honourable Congressman, These figures clearly contradict what you said, because this shows that family support helped everyone, and thus helped families in difficulty, so they decreased from 38 percent to 23 percent. You said that families don't get enough people to make homes. It has reached 102 thousand families, it has helped 427 thousand people to live, we have helped 235 thousand children to live in a new home, we have spent 297 billion forints on this, these families have undertaken the birth of 49 thousand children in the future; we have only spent 57 billion forints on VAT refunds, and I could tell you more, honourable Member, how many families we have been able to help with the CSOK in recent years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-28-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The 20 seconds with which the Secretary of State continued to speak, I also signal to Congressman Mellar, were the 20 seconds that I choked the floor in order to continue a duel with Congressman Korózs. in the form of comprehensive measures for Hungarian families. Mr László Szászfalvi applied for an address from the KDNP Group before the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-05-28-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, The most honest and highest political action always rests on the will of citizens. Although yesterday a opposition politician was uncertain and hesitant to question whether we knew what the voters would never want, yet I am convinced that the elections, the institutions such as the referendum or the national consultation, give the policy the opportunity to meet the voters, to know their will, are all the celebrations and realities of democracy. On Sunday, the Hungarian people clearly, clearly and with extraordinary participation have declared their will to support the Fidesz-KDNP stance on the European scene, in the EP and also in internal politics. The overwhelming majority of voters voted in favour of the values that the governing parties have been representing for many years. They supported the substantial recognition that the response to the phenomenon of general population decline in Europe and Hungary is not to stimulate, complete or organise illegal migration, but to support and help European families and Hungarian families. Dear House, The Hungarian government has heard this electoral will for many years, and has responded with active, active government decisions. Over the years, it has expanded our family support system step by step to the extent that over the past 8-9 years, it has virtually doubled the amount of budget support in this area. Today we are spending more than HUF 2000 billion on supporting Hungarian families, but while the leading politicians in Brussels were fully involved in the organisation of illegal migration, we have also recognised that we need to further develop our social policy goals in relation to families with further steps, life-like ideas and communication with voters. To this end, a successful national consultation was carried out by the government on this subject and, as a consequence, the Prime Minister presented the seven-point family support action plan to the public. Since then, most of these can enter into force after the necessary government and parliamentary decisions, on 1 July, such as baby shower support, which helps young couples in the form of an interest-free loan of 10 million forints; from July the interest-supported loan related to the CSOK can also be requested for the purchase of unused property; from 1 July families can also use the possibility of releasing mortgage loans; and from then on the support of large families will start to buy cars. The implementation of the largest cradle development programme is already under way, and two new measures will start from 1 January 2020: the introduction of women with at least four children and the adoption of the grandparents' children currently under discussion. Dear Parliament, We never said that we had solved all the problems and that the paradise on earth had already come, but we can safely say that the government and the governing parties had heard the words of time and the will of voters; we were not only curious about it, but we asked them for it. This is confirmed by their decision this Sunday, and in line with this, we have given lively, realistic, responsible responses to the phenomenon of population decline eating up the future, and we help and support the well-being of Hungarian families and young Hungarians. In an unprecedented way, the government has been building an unprecedented complex family support system for years, step by step, to help young Hungarians, and if we look at this in the Carpathian Basin dimension, we can safely say that it is about the implementation of a historic family support and social policy programme. Despite all the foolish and primitive filthiness in Western and Northern Europe, despite the unlucky mischief in Brussels, this government response is the only sensible, European context that can be understood and the answer to the future, serving a lively and strong Europe and Hungary, today. We therefore support the Government and ask it to endure and even continue to look for new opportunities within a reasonable economic framework. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that this program serves life, the Hungarian people and the family. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-28-16	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Rétvári Bence, State Secretary, responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-05-28-17	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, There are trends that are thought to be infallible by independent experts in Brussels that these trends are unchangeable and extremely irritating to them that there is a ten million-dollar country in the middle of Europe, in the heart of Europe, which, every year, almost every year, can reverse such an unchangeable trend. These are also part results in demography, in improving population decline processes, and also in economics; today we have heard before the agenda of this example, that some people who cannot exit the previous box and find it unthinkable to achieve economic growth in a different way than they think, and even to achieve one of the greatest economic growth in the European Union, but not as they have previously written in their books or read from the books of others. [[9.40]] And the same is the Hungarian policy on stopping migration, as they said that it is a phenomenon in the world that cannot be stopped. So just as the Danube flows through the Central European countries from the Black Forest and reaches the sea, so migration is a process that will never stop, will never change, but must live with it, be accepted that it is. While Hungary and Italy have proven that they do not have to be accepted. If a country has a strong will, a strong will, and a government that has not only a will, but can turn it into action, then indeed these trends can be changed. And they look at it with great suspicion, perhaps not in quotes, but on their part they look suspiciously at the fact that in Hungary there is also a committed government in terms of family policy, which does not believe in austerity, like its predecessors, not in the IMF's recipe when the budget is in trouble, but in favour of the Hungarian families, leaving the money needed to have children and not in the form of taxes, but leaving it. And when the family has to make an important decision at a younger age to take the child or later, there is a suitable apartment, there is a suitable home where they can take the child, they can take another child, they can travel with it, they can go to the grandparents, they go on holiday, the car is big enough, in these important moments of decision, the state helps to overcome the financial obstacles that can arise for a family as early as possible, for having children, for having more children. That's why it stings the eyes of many, because there are two very, very strong and different ideas. One would want to maintain the European population with migration, the other with Hungarian, and we can say that V4 or Central European positions with a good and supportive family policy. This also leads to the conclusion of who trusts whom, because we trust Hungarians, we trust Europeans, while those who support migration from Brussels with quotas and in other ways trust non-Europeans. We see the future of Europe in Europeans and see the future of Hungary in Hungarians, most of all based on them, while from Brussels they see the future of Europe outside Brussels, who are being relocated and who will populate the European continent and will work here and have children. As I mentioned to you, during the socialist period, family policy was equivalent to austerity. They thought that if money was to be taken from somewhere, they were not the multi-company, not the foreign-owned utility companies, or the publishing companies who supplied textbooks to families more and more expensively each year allowed them to raise their prices. On the other hand, not only did they take a month's wages in the public sector, they not only took a month's pension from pensioners, grandparents, but they also wanted to tax the family allowance. The Hungarian families were damaged by the reduction of regular child protection support, and even by the tax relief of one and two children when they had to be squeezed. At first, the socialists removed the state aid from the one-child group, but the three-and-a-multi-childs also suffered ill, as their tax relief was cut off, and families were in a very difficult situation on the expenditure side, as they raised the rent fifteen times. This resulted in a low level of childbearing spirit by 2010-2011, as there was no country in the European Union in 2010-2011 where childbearing would have been worse than in Hungary. As you have mentioned, one of the obvious results of these measures in the budget is that the previous HUF 960 billion now has HUF 2004 billion on family support. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] available in the budget, more than twice as many as before. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-05-28-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. From the Group of the LMP, Mr Péter Ungár applied for a speech before the agenda with a title to win from here. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-05-28-19	Thank you for the floor. Since this is the hall of popular representation, and we have not yet had the opportunity to reflect on the election of the European Parliament, on the number of people, I would like to say that I would like to congratulate the winners; and I would like to apologize to our former voters, and I promise that we will work on restoring our credibility as the Green Party of Hungary in the next period. And we're going to do everything we can to understand the message they sent us on Sunday. It is not a good thing for Hungary that, in my opinion, the Hungarian opposition currently has liberal neoliberal leadership, and there is no system critical green thinking, but it is essentially our responsibility. This government must have a system critical opposition in order to be a successful opposition, and hopefully this will change in the next time. I would now like to turn to a question of a political nature which is very important in Parliament's work, and hopefully Mr Rétvári State Secretary will be able to answer that question in relation to the gravity of the matter, I ask. We talked a lot about the care fee in the Hungarian Parliament. AOSZ and EMMI issued a communication on the fact that the point system on the child care fee will be changed in March-April, and that other changes will be made to the way the care fee, the care fee for children will be set. I would like, although not necessarily a questioning genre before the agenda, but if Mr Secretary of State were to respond to this, he would be able to clarify that. I'll keep going. I would like to ask the Secretary of State that, although I do not believe that he will be able to quote sentences that are either spoken or not, as my fellow Member, Mr Korózs, [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: No State Secretary...]] But the thing is, I would ask the government to increase the care fee for those who are not raising their children at home, but their elderly parents or other relatives. Currently they receive 58 thousand forints, this is a very, very low amount. Even if you say percentage increases, 15 percent of 58,000 forints are just a few thousand forints. It would also be worthwhile for the government to examine why it is only for one child, and if two are having children, why it is only for one child, and why it is not possible to take this allowance in addition to the pension. I'm moving on. Another problem with the care fee is that guardians or non-official parents or guardians cannot accept this award. Here was a step forward last year when this child care fee was introduced, but I think there is still a lot of amendments to be made to serve the interests of those who made this law change, and I would like to ask the government to make these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2019-05-28-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-05-28-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I can't argue with the first ten seconds of your speech, so I have to agree with that. [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches.]] But as regards home care, the issue of care fees, honourable Member, many may remember this, that this was a very, very important topic for the opposition here in Parliament in the summer of the autumn of the previous year. It was almost not a week that any opposition representative did not take a T-shirt, put out a sticker, try to take pictures of people in Kossuth Square or elsewhere who received a care fee and demanded an increase in the care fee in a louder way. At that time, and after that, several organisations spoke and asked these opposition politicians not to re-politicise this issue, not to generate a case from which they only want political benefit. And when the decisions were made, then they made a final request not to try to deceive people with untruths, and they did not want opposition representatives to gain popularity through untruths or untruths. At the same time, the government has been negotiating and negotiating with these organisations. We also issued a joint declaration when the legislative amendments were made and, obviously, there have been discussions with the organisations since then to make the technical part of the regulation as optimal as possible for them. You know, Mr President, that for several years after 2014, there has been a continuous increase in the care fee. We introduced a new category, besides basic and increased benefits, the priority care, so for those who cared for their most serious family member, we could talk about a 2.7-fold increase, as they were placed in a new category and even increased. In addition, the period spent in home care was covered by health insurance, and in addition, it included retirement as a year of work there. [[9.50]] And then we arrived at 12 December of last year, when, after the negotiations, we decided to increase the care fee here in Parliament, and here in Parliament we decided to introduce a home care fee for a new children with much higher support. Honourable Congressman, You know very well that you are all of the opposition representatives who brought up this subject here weekly before him, who demanded a weekly increase in the care fee, and they said that they would do anything to increase the care fee, but that none of you, not one of you, supported the increase in the care fee here in Parliament. You have demanded it every week in the weeks before the vote, every week in the weeks following the vote, only when it comes to the vote, this issue is not important to you. It wasn't important to you at the time, because you thought you were calling it... banging, but there was honking, confetti throwing, shouting in loudspeakers, sirening, beeping, all of which were more important to you, individually and in combination. Because in the weeks before, they thought that they could get into the news by demanding a care fee, but now suddenly, to get into the news, beeping and self-ping seemed more effective, so they didn't consider voting and introducing the child's home care fee and raising the care fee important, but they thought that the whistle and selfie would bring you a little more political benefit that day. Therefore, in that second, they forgot those who are being cared for and cared for at home, about whom you said all your speeches here earlier. In contrast, Fidesz-KDNP not only talked about wanting to help but also helped. By the way, you might have apologized not only to your own voters, but also to those who received the weed, those who received the increase in the care fee, perhaps it would have been exemplary for your opposition fellow Members, because we increased the amount of the care fee here and introduced the weed. We will be able to provide a hundred thousand forints of care for their children from this year onwards, which will continue to rise until 2022, and will reach the level of the minimum wage in 2022, which will be a noticeable increase in the years to come, or a 15% increase for each person receiving a care fee from this year onwards. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and this will be followed every year by an additional 5-5 percent increase by 2022. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-28-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. From the Jobbik Group, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát came forward to speak before the agenda with the title "The Fight Continued." Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-05-28-23	Mr President, Dear House, It is a sad day from the point of view of the fact that, although the evaluation of the elections seems to have taken place yesterday in all directions according to the taste of the elections, there has been no meaningful reaction today from the pro-government representative. I hope that this can change, because campaigns, elections and the winds of those will come and go, but our national fates will remain, and then Hungarian democracy would be fair, it would start to work, I would add, if we could achieve meaningful, consensual results on our national fate issues, whether in the area of Hungarian family support. That is why we are trying again and again to provide not only cosmetic benefits for the announced seven points of family protection, but also meaningful help for hundreds of thousands of people. And in order not to charge me with inexpensive accusations, I would like to stand on the ground of the specifics in this matter. I would like to share three concrete proposals that we have submitted in recent weeks on which the government has not shown itself, the settlement of which could benefit hundreds of thousands of Hungarian compatriots. I would like to advance, I am prepared, both spiritually and in every sense, for the personalization of the government, for the attacks on my community, but at the same time the government would act in a self-religious manner if it gave such answers to each of the professional questions. I wouldn't be surprised, but it would be equivalent to admitting their own failure if we weren't talking about our national issues, but the same as in recent years. I would like to say that the most important indicators are here before us. Unfortunately, there has been a further decline in the number of live births over the past one year. With regard to the number of deaths, we see again that, unfortunately, there has been an increase, and, following a commendable, welcome increase in fertility rates, there has been a halt and then a slow decrease within the already narrow base, since unfortunately, the number of Hungarian women of childbearing age is constantly decreasing for demographic reasons, and the emigration spiral further accelerates this decline. You can talk about campaigns, you can talk about the role of political parties, and you should talk about it; I will take my share of the responsibility in this regard, but it would not be appropriate to talk about these issues of national strategy with a sense of treason, and I must say, this is the insight of Hungary in itself. You can talk about economic data, GDP, which, in contrast to what was said yesterday, is not about the state of the national economy, but about economic developments within Hungary, and these debates have a place. However, what we are looking for is a concrete answer: we have tabled a proposal to allow the frozen weight of the family tax allowance for two children, frozen this year, to increase annually at least in line with inflation rates, but I would like it to be able to increase even more. According to the law currently in force, this benefit is frozen this year, with nominally the same number of benefits for the two children, and this benefit is not increasing. We want to change that. I expect a concrete answer from you on what two children can expect in this area. I would also like to say that, although this government intention is only cosmetic, but I support the fact that, in the case of Hungarian families with mortgage loans, the Government of Hungary would, once again, make a cosmetic concession, and I support it; at the same time, I see an amazing gap, because if someone has submitted their application for their third child between January 2018 and June 2019, they can expect significantly lower help than the person who is now following the publication of the package. To straighten this out, I expect the government to extend the discount to all the Hungarian families concerned, which cannot be called a discount, since the fair procedure would be the forinting of loans at the rate of admission for mortgage lenders, so giving back the stolen goods and returning the amounts concerned to the Hungarian families. Thirdly, I consider the purchase of a family car to be very important. I do not understand why they only talk about the benefits of the luckier social classes for buying a new car, why we do not talk about the possibility of buying a used car with proper technical parameters, typical Hungarian living conditions, typical Hungarian families' everyday problems. So my request and my call is not only to favour certain social groups, not only the upper middle class, but also the typical Hungarian lifestyles. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] whether on a consensual basis, this Parliament should address the real national issues, because that is what really matters in a 50-year perspective. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik and Dialogue.]]
u2019-05-28-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, responds to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go.
u2019-05-28-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, First of all, before I respond to your speech, allow me to make a comment on the title of the speech because you clearly gave me the same address of opposition as yesterday's Member James, but you have struck a completely different tone, which I am very pleased about. But I also think your speech has something to do with the title, because I looked into it because it was suspicious to me. It's a thing called "The Fight Continues," and it's the title of a work movement song composed in 1974. [[Defiance and interruptions in Jobbik's ranks.]] written for the anniversary of the Great Socialist Revolution in October [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You are completely ill...]] Nikolaj Dobronravov and Alexandra Pakhmutova. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: That's why it was worth working for the co-workers... Applause in Jobbik's ranks.]] It's important... [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] Sorry, I think terminology issues are important. This is important because it shows well the credibility crisis of Jobbik, it shows why you cannot take seriously what you say and shows why Hungarian voters punished you in the elections to the European Parliament in the way you were punished, and in many areas you were preceded by a joke party called the Two-tailed Dog Party. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Forgive me, but your job is to answer, no one wants to hear the opinion...]] This is because you have committed yourself to left-wing socialist governments and to the left-wing opposition, which still represents their performance, who have done the following in the context of family support: abolishing the former home-building system, abolishing the tax relief of one and two children. [[10.00]] I'm sorry that I'm political in this sense and I'm not a professional politician, but how is it that you are running for election in the European Parliament with an interest and value? [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You addressed him to the wrong place, my friend!]] Are you criticising the left-wing, DK and Hungarian socialists, and then the family support system, while they were the ones who specifically abolished the tax incentives you proposed to increase? [[Happy Stephen: They are Bolsheviks too!]] This was restored by the national government in 2010. Sorry again for being political, but it's important. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You're a professor! You're a professor! Congratulations.]] because it is the political position and political affiliation... [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: This is when you find out what kind of people you are! When you win, how you treat people! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I'm sorry, Congressman, I'd be happy to answer you if you'd listen to me, since we're on such political ground. So, compared to what we have been able to do since 2010, and indeed, family support is a nation strategy issue, support for families, support for children's birth is a nation strategy issue, we are much better off, thank God than in 2010, but we would like to be able to stand much better, I tell you what we could do in this respect. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You have received three specific questions!]] In 2019 there will be HUF 2000 billion for family support. That's double the amount for 2010. Today, a million families are helped by the family tax relief that you criticized. Since 2014, new forms of family support have also been put in place under the name ged extra. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: I thought he understood, but he really doesn't understand. You've got three questions, my friend.]] A new home creation program will help families to access their homes, a so-called CSOK programme, with HUF 10 million in non-refundable state funding. Since the introduction in 2015, more than 100,000 families have applied for this home creation discount of HUF 300 billion. In addition, the family protection action plan, which starts on 1 July 2019, represents an interest-free loan of 10 million to young married people. The preferential CSOK loan can be used for a used apartment, with 1 million forints of mortgage relief when the second child is born, and 4 million forints when the third child is born, and a car purchase support scheme will be launched, and mothers with at least four children will be granted life-long sja-free from 1 January 2020. We introduce the grandparents' lawn, and by 22 we provide a nursery space for all children of kindergarten age. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Why aren't Hungarian children born?]] This is why the worst fertility rate in the European Union rose from 1.25 to 1.5 in 2010 and the migration balance has also changed, so more people are coming home at the moment than are emigrating. I think this is a result that you should not be taking forward in these speeches either. We'd like to ask you to support it instead. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] to attack, rather than support the government's actions in this direction. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You got three corrective questions! You couldn't answer any of them!]] Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-05-28-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, From the Fidesz Group, Ms Gabriella Selmeczi came forward to address the agenda with the title "Previous Affairs." Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-05-28-27	Mr President, Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The result of the elections to the European Parliament is evidence that we are the most family-friendly country in Europe. Hungary's citizens have entrusted us with the task of supporting Hungarian families and children instead of immigration, because it was not a question of what opportunities we had to choose on Sunday: to vote for our children, to vote for immigration, to respond to the serious demographic crisis in Europe, to what country our children, to our grandchildren and to what Europe we leave, to solve the problem of population loss by installing immigrants, in which a multitude of people of different cultures would settle in our country, or rather to support families in order to have as many children as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary therefore gave the answer: for us, the child is the first. We have been given a broad mandate to continue the policy that we have started. The unusually high turnout showed that the Hungarian people wanted to express their views and did not want to make their country an immigrant country. They want to protect themselves, their children, their grandchildren, themselves and their grandchildren Hungary as it is now: national, Christian and safe. As Prime Minister said earlier, what is the idea that unites Hungarians: we want Hungary and a European Europe. Before the Sunday vote in the EU, we have already asked people for their opinions on family protection issues during the national consultation. All of this, taken together, is now an actuality for the continuation of our family protection action plan. Ladies and gentlemen, The protector Hungary builds its foundations on the smallest and most important unity of society, and this is the family. We have already taken a lot of measures to protect Hungarian families. When we talk about how the child is the first and we want to strengthen families, we think not only about financial support but also about a certain way of thinking, we also want to focus attention on values, on the fact that it doesn't matter how society or even politicians in this Parliament view families who have children. There are many kinds of life situations, and we try to find the right support for everyone. Such is the Grandparent's law, for example, which we will discuss today. The family protection action plan will help young people start their lives, have children and raise children with new support. We introduce childbearing support for young families, and from July 1st, 19th, baby shower support comes. The CSOK discount loan will be available for the apartment already used. In addition, the range of families with children entitled to mortgage credit reduction and the amount of the aid. Large family members receive non-refundable support for car purchases: As of 1 July 2019, families with at least three children can receive grants of up to HUF 2.5 million for the purchase of a new, seven-person or more personal car. Today, there are about 150,000 families of three or more children in Hungary. We're gonna be able to help them with this. Mothers who have at least four children will be granted syai-free treatment. According to current data, about 40,000 mothers are affected by a unique measure in the world. Full day care will be completed. In three years, the government will create another 21,000 cradle seats. Ladies and gentlemen, Did you know that Hungary spends the most money to support families in Europe, twice as much as in 2010, 2000 billion forints, which is 4.8 percent of our total national product? Since 2012, childbearing has increased significantly by 21 percent. So desire exists, it is there for families, and the government provides support for it with the tools at its disposal. Dear fellow Members, Every year since 2010, we have tried to add something to support families and constantly expand opportunities to help young people start their lives. In 2010, when the country was dancing on the edge of the gap, we thought about children and families, even when the situation was very bad, we restored the third year's land and restored the tax relief for children. Thank you for listening. I would also like you to support the family support law on the agenda today. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-05-28-28	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, the Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, responds to her speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-05-28-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Indeed, there is a great difference between the thinking and government activities of opposition parties and the thinking and government activities of Fidesz-KDNP in the area of family support. While opposition parties, when they were on the government, took a policy of continuous backwards reaping in family support, Fidesz-KDNP made decisive progress. This has some spectacular results. Although not as spectacular as we would like it to be, we would like to see more of the number of children born each year than the number of children who leave us in the old age, but there are still significant differences. [[10.10]] After all, if we draw an imaginary line on a graph and on the trend that occurred in the number of births in 2008-2009-2010 this is a very strong downward line, we place on it what happened in reality, which is also a downward line, but much less, this shows the difference between what would have been the continuation of family trends and child birth trends in the socialist period, and what was fortunately instead, because there was a much higher birth rate, thanks to the very characterary and financial support of Fidesz-KDNP's family policy. Well, if I add the difference between the two years from 2011 to 2018, then we can see that 77 thousand more children have been born as a result of the fact that the trend that has clearly led to a very strong downswing over the years 2008-2009-2010 has not continued. But it is also the result of this positive trend or trend shift that in the last 20 years there have never been as few divorces as in 2018. It is also the result of this positive trend shift that the number of abortions decreased to a noticeable extent last year. So these are all feedback that shows that the government is on the right path when it does not think about migration, it is not thinking about the introduction of young people from North Africa and the Middle East, which, although not solving problems, is causing a lot of new problems in the Western countries of Europe, but is supporting families. Similar important feedback is not only this 77 thousand more born children or other positive marital or other numbers, but also positive feedback for us politicians that the voters clearly signaled back last Sunday at the European Parliament elections that they wanted Fidesz-KDNP to pursue this policy. In fact, we are talking about an election to the European Parliament: they also said that if it meant taking up conflicts within the European Union, Fidesz-KDNP would do so. The reason why so large and large a number of Fidesz-KDNP MEPs were sent to the European Parliament and the representatives of opposition parties in a much smaller number is because they want this policy to stand up for families and take on the conflict with families. I have enough to refer to one of the incomprehensible Brussels policies of the past few weeks, which raised various competition concerns about baby shower support in the case of a scheme that has been operating for years in the case of the CSOK and the CSOK loan, since we are also providing this support through banks, it was a proven, functioning system. Not to mention the fact that the European Commission, and the European Union, are distributing migrant cards through banks without competition concerns, while the Hungarian government's measures to support families are such, so to speak, rather sweaty, artificial, created competition concerns. In this trend, which has brought countless benefits in recent years, today is also very important, since today we can decide on another step in the family protection action plan. There was no consensus on previous measures, nor on the measures that will take effect from 1 July, either here in Parliament, as the opposition's strongest party, the Democratic Coalition setting the direction of the opposition, which sets out its spiritual and political direction, did not support this at the head of Ferenc Gyurcsány, so if they came to power or if the political family led by them came to power, families could not expect much good. A lot has already happened since 2010, as you said, Congresswoman, every year something happened. Let me give you an example from one year to the next: in 2010 we increased the duration of the child from two to three years, from 2011 we introduced an increased family tax reduction covering both one and two children. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] From 12:00 a home creation program, from 13:00 a job protection action, ged extra from 14:00 a.m., and could still be classified every year for further progress. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-05-28-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. In line with our now adopted agenda, a general discussion of the bill on the amendment of individual laws to the introduction of the Grandparent Childcare Fee will follow until closure. Government referral T/6191. On the House's IT network, it is available to everyone. I would now like to ask the secretary of state, Ms Katalin Novák, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, to come to the stand and keep his expozee from the platform. Here you go, Madam Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-05-28-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Dear House, Today, I ask you to support the legislative amendment that will allow grandparents to become more active in raising grandchildren from 1 January next year. This is a step that will strengthen the relationship between grandparents and grandchildren, i.e. between generations, and a step that will help families with Hungarian children again. But where did we start, and what situation are we in today, both in Hungary and across Europe? If we say that there is a demographic situation, if we say that there are demographic challenges, now more and more people know what a serious demographic crisis is affecting Europe. Today, ladies and gentlemen, there is not a single country in Europe where enough children are born. There is no single country in Europe today where there are as many children as there are enough to sustain the country's population. Make no mistake, Europe's population continues to grow year after year. Last year there were more people in Europe than before last year, and so it is year after year. However, migration is now the sole source of this population growth. This means that Europe is no longer able to rejuvenate, rejuvenate or even maintain itself, need external resources, and a number of European leaders have decided to deploy external resources. This is not the way we go, this is not the way we choose. Why not? Because if we look at the situation in Hungary, we can see that the population has lost year after year since 1981. Since 1981, more people have died every year than the number of children born, since 1981 we have lost nearly 10 percent of the Hungarian population living within our current geographical areas. This means that our population is constantly declining, and we would like to offer a solution to this, which is certainly not migration in our case. We say that our demographic problems must be solved not by involving external resources, not by planting external resources, but by supporting the birth of Hungarian children. Why can we say that with courage? Because Hungarian young people are family-centred, because Hungarian young people love children and want to live together in marriage and even with children. If we ask young Hungarians today what their plans are for the future, they say that they want to live in marriage, want children, at least two on average. So all we have to do is look at the obstacles faced by these young Hungarians and help them to remove these obstacles. This is one of the most important objectives of family policy. We want every desired, planned child to be born in Hungary. We want young people today to have a much easier situation than their parents and grandparents did. We want young people today not to face financial obstacles if they want to choose to have children. We want everyone today to say yes to having children and starting a family in Hungary. That's what we're working on. And we are also working to make it easier for those who are already raising children, who are already in a family with children, to give their children the more they can, the more they can spend on raising children, both financially and in terms of quality time. That's what family-friendly governance is about, that's what family-oriented decision-making is all about. This family-friendly governance has been consistently pursued since 2010. This family-friendly governance makes it possible that from the very difficult situation from which we were forced to start in 2010, we should strive to fight our way out and get from one to two each year and so on. This family-friendly governance makes it possible to see the results of the nine years so far. Today, more people are getting married than ever in the last 20 years, with more children on average than ever in the last 20 years. If the desire to have children had been stable in 2011 or even in 2010, then there would have been 88 thousand fewer children in Hungary today, 88 thousand fewer children would have been born. [[10.20]] But if you look at the number of marriages and divorces, if you look at the fact that this indicator, both for marriages and divorces, would have remained stable at the 2010 level, which was a low point at the time, and was the lowest point in recent decades, you can say that today there would be nearly 200,000 more than 188 thousand people living in marriage than today. So we can see that family policy, family-oriented governance, already has results. I am always careful in this regard, we cannot sit back, there is much work to be done, and we also see that we need new opportunities to sustain the growth of childbearing. In the last nine years, since 2010, we have taken a number of steps to make it easier to have children in Hungary and to make it easier to raise children in Hungary. That's what family tax breaks are about, that's what the ged extra is about, or that's what the home creation program is all about, just to highlight some of the most important steps in the last nine years. And that's what the family protection plan is all about. Why did we decide to launch a family protection action plan? Because we see that the Hungarian families need further help, we can move forward, and we have the opportunity to do so because, thanks to the diligence of Hungarian people, the country's economic scope has increased, we have the opportunity to devote more time to supporting families. I would like to draw attention to the number that reflects our budget expenditure in recent years. In 2010, ladies and gentlemen, we spent HUF 960 billion on family support. This year, this amount exceeds HUF 2000 billion in 2019. We have been able to increase budget support for families more than double, and we are not stopping here. You will see in next year's budget that there will be even more for Hungarian families in 2020. So we can increase our budget expenditure year after year. But we see that there is still room to move forward, which is why the government has decided to introduce the family protection plan. The family protection action plan, announced by Prime Minister in February, contains seven points. One of these seven points relates to nursery development, to the further expansion of the nursery network. We agreed to expand the number of cradle seats from 50,000 to 70,000. However, this step is not about numbers, it is about every family where parents work and where they raise a small child, a child under three years old, and they cannot solve the custody of the child within the family, and they do not want to pay very much for help that can be provided to the family in the custody of the child, they can use nursery care near their home. That is why we have transformed the system of nursery care, which is why we have made it a multi-player, and that is why we have introduced the mini-cradle, the family nursery, and the nursery in the workplace. We want to give the Hungarian families the opportunity to place even these tiny children if they are working, as more and more people are working in Hungary. We see that the needs for cradle seats are increasing, which is why we have decided to continue to increase the number of cradle seats in Hungary, so that we can make sure that every child has a relaxing nursery placement in Hungary, where there is a need for this. I would add that we have decided to extend further despite the fact that, given the number of children under three years of age, if we compare the current number of crèches to this, this proportion has never been as high in Hungary as it is now. So this is the first point of the family protection action plan. There are four other points which will start on 1 July. One of them is baby shower support. This is an opportunity for young Hungarians like never before in Hungary, and I can even say that it does not exist at such an international level. Baby shower support gives young people who are about to start a family life together a leeway that allows them to have as many children as they want and when they want to. For that is our goal, to make it possible for all young people to have as many children as they wish. Baby shower support starts as an interest-free loan of HUF 10 million, but if the children are born as planned, it can become fully supported. This means that they do not have to repay this 10 million fully usable forint at all. So they have 10 million forints more to start their life together. So this baby shower support, in which we are determined to launch from 1 July, should be the result of any attack from inland or abroad. Another option in the family protection action plan is the extension of the CSOK loan. The CSOK, the home creation program, is very popular, very many people take advantage of this opportunity, because everyone wants to provide a suitable home, suitable conditions for their family. We can see that there is a great demand for the CSOK that has been hired for the purchase of used properties. We also see that if we introduce it, and from 1 July we introduce the possibility that, in addition to the CSOK that has been admitted to the used apartment, there will be a preferential loan for those concerned, even more people will be able to obtain a home of their own. This is why we extend the possibility of a preferential CSOK loan with a guaranteed interest rate of less than 3 per cent for the purchase of used properties. This also starts on July 1st. We also think of those who, in addition to raising children, have to cancel mortgage loans. In these families, if they have another child, we reduce the amount of the outstanding mortgage. After all, it is very difficult to decide to have another child if they know that they even have to manage the mortgage payments every month. Therefore, if a second child arrives in the family, young people can apply for the waiver of HUF 1 million of outstanding mortgage loans from 1 July after the end of the third month of pregnancy. We also increase the amount that can be written off at the arrival of the third child. This means that if the third child comes into the family, he can reduce the outstanding mortgage by HUF 4 million. This means that if, say, a family with one child is planning another two children, they can expect that they will have to pay 5 million forints less of their outstanding loans, and this applies, of course, to the CSOK loan. Even if the family has two children, they can expect a further child to arrive for HUF 4 million less, and those planning fourth, fifth and sixth additional children will reduce their outstanding mortgage by HUF 1 to 1 million per additional child. The fourth point of the family protection action plan also starts on 1 July, and if I count nursery development, then the fifth point, which helps to buy cars for large families. This means that large family members who buy at least a seven - person passenger car can receive 2.5 million forints in support of this, when it comes to a new passenger car, a new passenger car for at least seven people. This can also help if a fourth child is planned by the family, and we know precisely that four children can no longer be transported in a classic car, a five - person passenger car, for which these large families will be helped. But anyone who has three children or tried to slide three car seats into the back seat knows exactly that when you have to put the three car seats and all the packages related to the children, the whole family, it is also a great help if you can put them in a seven-man passenger car instead of a classic car. They are helped to do this, whether it is for purchase or for closed-ended leasing, so for leasing the families from July 1st. There are two other points to the family protection action plan, which will start on January 1st next year. Here we are thinking, on the one hand, of mothers with at least four children, who have taken up and raised at least four children in their lives, who will receive the full personal income tax exemption from 1 January next year. There's no such thing as this opportunity anywhere in the world. This means that mothers who have raised at least four children do not have to pay personal income tax all their lives. We offer this opportunity from 1 January next year, which, on the one hand, represents a greater financial margin, a greater security for these parents, for these families, and, on the other hand, a recognition from the community: let us show how valuable the service they have done to us by taking on and educating the four children is to us. And there is another possibility in the family protection action plan, which is also the subject of the current amendment of the law. This is the introduction of the Grandparent child. From January 1st next year, grandparents can go to school with children under certain conditions, if the Parliament accepts legislative proposals. By doing so, we want to help families where, or both, parents work alongside a small child, and there is no other help they can get, but there are grandparents or at least one grandparent who would actively participate in raising a child, or even help single - parent families where single - parent parents work, return to work early, and there is a grandma or grandpa who would take part in raising a baby at home. [[10.30]] There will also be a nursery space as an opportunity, but if grandparents are ready to do so and are happy to take part in the training of grandchildren, then we would also like to create the conditions for this. I therefore ask that you support the current legislative amendment proposal, which provides the legislative options for the introduction of the Grandparent child. This bill contains amendments to the following two laws: LXXXIII of 1997 on compulsory health insurance. Act and Act CXVII of 2018 amending certain social, child protection and other related laws Law. We would amend these two laws so that, from January 1st next year, grandmothers, grandpas, one of them could stay at home with the granddaughter, if they needed and had the opportunity. The Grandparent's Gyed creates the possibility that, by the age of two, when it comes to twins, one of the grandparents can stay at home and use the child's possibility until the age of three. The legislative amendments clarify concepts and extend the scope of available options, as grandparents cannot go after grandchildren at the moment. There are also certain conditions for grandparents to use their grandparents'children. Most of all, the condition is that this should be a common demand from the family; that this should be the opportunity that parents want and the grandparents want, and that is the best interest of the child. It is therefore assumed that parents should express their intention to do so, and that parents should be entitled to do so. Thus, parents who themselves have legal rights can pass on their rights to their parents. What other conditions are there? Grandparents should also have legal rights. This means, therefore, that, within two years prior to the birth of the child, the grandparents must be insured for at least 365 days. Practically, this means that working grandparents, who have worked in previous years, will open up the possibility of grandparents. It is also a condition that both parents of the child, when it comes to parenting their child alone, should, of course, be employed by that parent, so that he should pursue a job. It is also a condition that the child should be cared for in the household of the parent if the child is used as a parent. This in practical life means that, of course, grandma or grandpa can take the child to their home during the day, but basically the baby, the granddaughter, has to live with the parents. It is also a condition that parents or parents raising their children alone declare that they contribute to the use of the childcare fee by the grandparents. It is also a condition that no one else is provided with this child, and that care related to childcare is not provided. So at this time, the grandparent will be entitled to this care. We only allow the grandparents to work at home. So it's not an option for Grandma or Grandpa to go to Grandparent's and then put the granddaughter in daycare and go to work. That's not what this grandparent kid is about. This is about getting help from grandmothers, grandpas, who are actively taking part in raising the granddaughter. Thus, the grandparents cannot work during the period during which the childcare fee is paid, unless the work is carried out in their home. So you can work at your home. It is also a condition that it is not a matter of retired grandparents. Thus, grandparents should not receive pension benefits or similar benefits during the payment of their grandparents' child. So this option goes to active grandparents in the labour market, and they can take advantage of the possibility of staying at home with one of their grandchildren. It is also stated in the legislative proposal that a grandparent can make multiple use of his grandparents' lawn after several grandkids. This means that if, say, two or three grandchildren are in parallel with grandparents at home, then you can get multiples, two or three times a month of the sum of the grandparents' children. So you're entitled to care for each foster granddaughter and so much care. This is, therefore, the proposal in which I ask for your support; this is the legislative amendment that will allow grandparents to be at home with grandchildren from 1 January next year, so help parents who raise small children and return early to the labour market. I trust that many people will take advantage of this opportunity, since think that the Grandparent's Gyed represents a monthly grant of HUF 208 thousand for an average salary, so that Grandparent can be at home with his granddaughter for HUF 208 thousand. And that means that you can return to the labour market in the same way if you wish. However, since it will be a period of entitlement from the point of view of the pension with the child, a period with the granddaughter at home, you can, of course, retire in such a way that you can count on this period for the period of retirement. I hope that by adopting this legislative amendment proposal, we can once again take a step towards a family-friendly Hungary, and we can again increase the amount of support for families. And I hope that family support can finally represent an issue in Hungary in which not only Hungarian people, not just our voters, have consensus, consensus, national consensus, but also between parliamentary parties, can develop support that does not prevent us from giving more to families, but also help them. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-28-32	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Ms Gabriella Selmeczi. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-05-28-33	Thank you very much, Mr President. The sage plant the tree in his late old age, though he cannot use it himself; but he understands how it grows for the normal time, and relieves his grandson with fruit. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I was quoting Ferenc Kölcsey, and his thought is still timely. Ladies and gentlemen, Recent research has shown that, in today's Hungarian family structure, grandparents have an extremely important role to play in addition to parents. The research has shown that the focus of the grandparent-grandson relationship is on quality time and emotional value. The main bastion of the relationship between the child and the grandparents is love and respect. During the time spent together in everyday life, while playing, the grandparent can convey to his granddaughter a lot of thoughts, habits, and knowledge that he does not meet at home or in the life of the school. From him, the most credible source, the child learns the past of the family, the legends of the ascendants. During this time, they develop an incredibly close spiritual thread that will be mutually important in both their lives. Since the child is the first for us, we also considered it important to involve grandparents and support them in raising children. Ladies and gentlemen, The day arrived when the Hungarian Parliament discussed the law on the introduction of the Grandparent child. During the national consultation held in the second half of last year, we asked people for their views on the protection of families. The majority of Hungarian people say yes to a safe Europe and to a protective Hungary. Instead of planting immigrants, we want to strengthen this country by the birth of many children, by encouraging young people to have children and by supporting families. Nearly 1.4 million people have expressed their will to live in a country where the child, the family are valuable, and where the government and the parliamentary decision-makers help them to do this noble task. There is a national unit in Hungary on the issue of support for families, as the government received more than 93% in the course of the national consultation on each issue. Great support has also given us a reason and strength to develop an action plan to protect families. Because, according to our values, we can strengthen our country by the birth of many children, by encouraging young people to have children, and by supporting families. For this reason, the Parliament adopted a new Fundamental Law, in which basic family values took place, and a two-thirds law protects families in Hungary. [[10.40]] Let us see what this protective Hungary means for us. Ladies and gentlemen, The protector Hungary builds its foundations on the smallest and most important unity of society, and this is the family. Since 2010, we have taken a lot of measures to protect Hungarian families. The family protection action plan announced by the Prime Minister in February will help young people start their lives, take up and raise their children with new support. The biggest problem in Western Europe is that they treat family support as taboo and only deal with how they suddenly, quickly, remedy the deficit caused by falling birth numbers. However, they do not ask the real question: what is the cause of the decline in the population? However, we have done so, and in answering the question, we have now come to the point where Hungary spends the most money to support families in Europe. As the Secretary of State has already said, we are already spending more than twice as much money on this, HUF 2000 billion, which is 4.8 percent of the total national product. Since 2012, the desire for children has increased significantly by 21 percent, so the desire exists, and the government provides support for this by means of the tools at its disposal. Dear fellow Members, Allow me to briefly summarize the details of the family protection action plan before we get to our most important bill today, the introduction of the Grandparent child. From 1 July 2019 the baby shower support will come, which will help young families to have children. The CSOK discount loan will be available for apartments or houses already used from 1 July 2019; this will be HUF 10 million for two children and HUF 15 million for three children. In addition, the range of families with children entitled to mortgage credit reduction and the amount of the aid. A HUF 2.5 million non-refundable grant may be granted for a new car purchase of at least seven persons by large families with three or more children; this will enter into force as of 1 July 2019. Today, this option can help 150,000 families in Hungary. Mothers with at least four children will be exempted from Saya, which, according to our current data, affects some 40,000 mothers. Full day care will be completed. Finally: On January 1, 2020 we will introduce the Grandparent lawn, which is also the main topic of today's day. Let's see what this grandparent kid is all about. Over the past few months, there has been a lot of talk about it, a lot of interest in this aspect of the family protection plan, a lot of people are interested in why grandparents should receive this benefit. Grandparent gyed is an opportunity that hasn't been in Hungary yet, and it's for families where parents work, and grandparents would like to be more active in raising grandchildren. According to surveys carried out by the Institute for Population Research, grandmothers and grandpas over 55 are involved in nearly the same proportion in the care and supervision of their grandchildren. In 2008, 41 percent of grandpas and 42,6 percent of grandmothers were grandchildren, while in 2016 these two figures became 67.7 percent and 70 percent. It also shows that many grandparents are involved in the parenting and supervision of the grandchild. In order to support families, where the grandparents, helping the working parents, participate in the care of their granddaughter, recognizing this work, the grandparents can become entitled to the child until the age of two, and in the case of twins until the age of three. So a grandparent can get a parent who is not retired, who works, but has to give up the job to take care of his granddaughter. There are conditions for this, since grandparents can receive the child if: they were insured for at least 365 days in the two years prior to the child's birth; the child's parents, in the case of a single parent, are employed by the parent caring for the child; the care and care of the child is in the parent's household; the parents of the child declare in writing that they contribute to the use of the child by the grandparents; the grandparents do not work under the child, unless the work is carried out exclusively in their home, since the child is actually expected to care for the grandson; the grandparents do not receive a social insurance pension or a benefit under the same consideration; this is also a condition for the grandparents' children, and the child cannot benefit from institutional accommodation provided during the day care, i.e. the child does not go to the nursery. If a person receives sick money, an accident allowance, an infant care fee for work at his home, that is not an exclusion. Ladies and gentlemen, Grandparent lawn can be requested from 1 January 2020. If there are more grandkids to go after, there can be only one grandparent, so either Grandma or Grandpa can be there. If, on the other hand, a grandma or a grandpa supervises several children from different pregnancies, the child will be found as a child, so a grandparent can ask several grandchildren of several of his children, i.e. there is no upper limit, and the aid can be used several times. However, it is good to know that children who are not born from the same pregnancy are entitled to multiple use, so twins cannot be used multiplely. The amount of the grandparent child will be determined on the basis of the parent's income, taking into account the general rules of the law on compulsory health insurance. The period of its publication is considered as a period of service for pension rights purposes. In view of the fact that the Grandparent would be entitled to unpaid leave and notice protection during the period of child abuse, it is also necessary to amend several other laws from a labour law point of view in the context of the integration of the Grandparent child into the legal system. The budget expenditure for the introduction of the Grandparent child will be about HUF 1 billion 300 million. Ladies and gentlemen, The fact that the grandparents can use the child helps the parent to return to work as soon as possible in addition to taking care of the child by a close family member. The measure is also expected to strengthen the family-friendly approach and strengthen intergenerational cooperation. In the beginning, we consider it to be great luck and the presence of grandparents in many families is a great help. Grandparents have a major role to play in keeping the family together, making traditions and customs known, so they may also play a role as educators in the absence of parents. While children used to have a daily relationship with their grandparents and living together as a result of family structure, today, unfortunately, there is a steady increase in distance between grandparents and grandchildren, geographically in any way. Today, due to housing conditions, geographical distance, family structure changes, grandparents and grandchildren meet much less frequently, as well as parents. With the introduction of the Grandparent child, we can again give grandparents and grandchildren a chance to approach each other and to spend a mutually joyful time. Among the scenes of child rearing, the family is the first, most important, the closest, the most emotional community for the child growing up in it. With the introduction of the Grandparent child, we want to promote that if someone wants to, they can keep their little child in the family while he goes back to work. You can receive love and care from grandparents as well as from your parents or caregivers, but you will remain in the family after all. The family gives children the experience of close and intimate human relationships. The solidarity of families, the mutual bond between children and parents, the emotional safety of children is also a fundamental interest of society. The introduction of the Grandparent child on the agenda today is intended to promote solidarity, emotional attachment and security. As Csaba Böjte said, families who can work together stay together. [[10.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, I mentioned earlier how important it is for children to have a family together. There is no need to explain why we all need to work together to support families. It is important that more and more children are born, but it is also important that they be raised and live in a loving family circle. Ladies and gentlemen, More than 93 percent of those who participated in the national consultation supported us on each subject to take measures to protect families. Therefore, the implementation of the family protection action plan is not the end of the process, the task is given and the list is open. In the future, we will still have proposals, and with further support we want to make it easier for families to have children. Families are counting on us, legislators. I trust that you, as well as the opposition representatives, can count on you, and they will support the bill. We ask you to support the government and us in adopting this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-28-34	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! The Jobbik Group indicated that two speakers presented their group's position. Accordingly, I give the floor first to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-05-28-35	Mr President, Dear House, I rise to speak in the hope that we can also have a fair debate on professional issues. We're used to political ratings. Before the agenda, I asked three specific questions on the demographic issue, so let's leave the secretary of state's answer because it was a mixture of a production report and a communal epic. That's what we're trying to let go of. I am turning to the secretary of state, because we have already had a fair professional debate and I will start with what we agree on, because perhaps this could form a common basis that could lead to consensual solutions. We agree that reproduction must be replaced in Hungary, it must be replaced on its own, I know that it will be strange from me, but we must try to pull ourselves out of the hole in which we are by our own hair. There is no doubt that the country is in a pit, whether we are looking at the number of live births or the brutal increase in the number of deaths compared to what this could show in an ideal situation. I also agree perfectly with what has been said that all forms of immigration, resettlement and resettlement must be rejected. The credibility in this regard, I feel, is in my community, because we are voting zero tolerance on this issue. So we do not contribute or contribute to immigration in the form of foreign workers or bondholders. We know that, as the Cyrillic signs appear in various shops, shopping units, this is how it began in Germany with Turkish migrant workers. So there have been processes that are counterproductive to the stated goals. I really hope they don't dominate in the future. Here we could talk about the family protection action plan, which I supported, by the way, and against the incomprehensible secretary of state who responded to my agenda, I did not criticize it, but suggested that it be extended at three specific, tangible points, so that I would not be a cosmetic discount for a few thousand people, but a real, tangible help for hundreds of thousands of people, because there is an amazing difference between the two perspectives. I would also like to say that we are discussing the Grandparent child, so I am also trying to narrow the scope of the trial relatively. On the one hand, we could talk about the lawn itself, about how much up to 70 percent of the salary should be paid. I think it would be a lot longer justified than the lawn is now available. This is also a legitimate basis for debate, a negotiating basis, but this is not on the agenda. What we're talking about, in the present publication of Grandparent's Gyed, I feel that there are some people you can help, a few hundred, a few thousand people, and I support this help, so don't make me look like an anti-conspirator, because I'm not. However, I propose amendments that would allow a much wider range to be achieved. 'Cause right now, what are we looking at? Let's get a grandparent who's still working, he's in the last period of his working years before retirement, and in his case, he'd have the opportunity to get a grandparent's lawn. But with regard to the calculation of pensions, we all know that the last years of work really matter, in an amazing way. So it is not a realistic idea to give up one's last years in this last job, the later years of the contributors, for up to 70 percent of his previous salary, and, where appropriate, to assume a undoubtedly very important family obligation that will result in him being sentenced to a lower pension for the rest of his life. It is even more vital, Madam Secretary, that the mother who remains at home is the child she has received, so that the worker's child will be handed over to the grandparents to help her. Unfortunately, this solution thus affects a much narrower circle in this form than could be affected. And we also have to say that not only is the expected lower pension a problem for a grandparent who is still working, but it is also a problem that the grandparents in retirement may be forced to choose between their pension and their grandparents. I would rather feel a way of supporting someone in addition to receiving a pension in a special form, since perhaps we can agree that receiving a home pension will not interfere with any activity with the custody of the child, the care of the child. Therefore, it cannot be ruled out in itself that a pension and a special parent child form can be obtained together. I thank my fellow Member Selmeczi for opening our eyes. Indeed, this draft moves a budget mass of around one billion. I want you to move five times that, ten times that. I would like to do this because with so much more of our Hungarian compatriots, grandparents could contribute to the care and upbringing of children. This is an incredibly important goal, it must not be placed under active political interests, and we fully agree on this. However, in order for this package not to be braked, but to be fully operational, it would be very important to use such an extension. And I would also like to say that I find it wrong to have the government narrowing down that ties the payment of the grandparents' child or to the employment of both parents to the principle, but I would like to say a few words about its practical implementation, or that if a person raises the child, that one parent should be in employment. This would not be a problem in itself, but a very broad social group is excluded by the grandparents with this solution, because we should help precisely where, say, because of the mother's illness, one of the parents is unable to take up a job, because they are the very ones who need the help that the grandparents can provide. So there are typical Hungarian life situations, I'll say it again, which need to be handled. I think they should be included in the discount. According to this notice, grandparents can only provide meaningful, measurable assistance in extreme cases. Such an extreme case, for example, if the grandmother, who intends to take it, is about to be laid off, becomes aware of this, her child, who is having a child, even though she is, let's say, 18 years old, and has no or no employment relationship. In such extreme situations of life, this solution can indeed mean help, crutches. But it was precisely my Fidesz fellow Member who, by communicating the low budgetary resources, acknowledged that a very, very narrow circle could use all this. I would like to support this proposal in an even better mood if it were made available to a much wider circle. And I also think the same about crèches where it was said that the use of crèches is free of charge, but who, in reality, walks near such institutions, whether through family members, knows that this is not the case, because in an income-dependent way, the amount of supervision must be paid between 4 and 13 thousand forints on the market average, for a meal between 4 and 9 thousand forints. So it's not true that it's free, but it could be free. In the same way, additional discounts should be broadened for large family car purchases. Most importantly, by fully saving mortgage families, the entire base could be expanded and increased. This would enable this package to be fully operational from a national strategic point of view. And if we do, we can support with an even better heart what we still support, but it doesn't matter how much we can contribute to the Hungarian demographic and national strategy goals. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-05-28-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I have indicated, the second speaker of the Jobbik Group, Mr János Stummer, is next. Here you go.
u2019-05-28-37	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, Let us put our hands on our hearts: who does not have a fond memory of his grandparents? Who didn't her parents drop off for a few weeks in the summer when she was a kid in the country to Grandma's? Many of our countrymen were as fortunate in their childhood as I was, and they could learn the basic tricks of gardening, crafting, or cooking from those dear elderly relatives who raised their father and mother to him. [[11.00]] The role of grandparents in children's lives is invaluable today. In fact, grandpas and grandmothers have an increasing role to play in broken, torn families, where one parent either failed his or was forced to emigrate abroad so that he can transfer home and provide a decent standard of living for his children. Any bill that takes account of the efforts of these great people can count on the support of the Parliamentary representatives of Jobbik. Jobbik is, of course, in favour of the introduction of the Grandparent child, as it welcomes all the government's efforts to increase the cohesion of the family, to help the child-bearing mood and thus the survival of our nation. However, we have two feelings about the introduction of the Grandparent child. Once again, the government has come up with a good idea that is going to go wrong. If we are not on the lookout, the Grandparent child will end up with the same fate as the baby shower loan or the CSOK, i.e. the well-intentioned, but flawed and therefore ineffective measures that are not expected to have a real social impact. Reading through the proposal for a grandparent's child, what can we determine? The government gives with one hand and with the other holds me back. What are we hearing again? A lot of promises, nicely-sounding phrases, but once again, families don't get any real help. What do Hungarian families really need? A family policy focusing on the creation of family-friendly jobs. A family policy that encourages home work, teleworking and part-time employment. A family policy that creates flexible employment relationships and helps young Hungarian women become Hungarian mothers. Dear House, Jobbik basically supports all measures that provide wider opportunities for families and make their daily lives easier. However, in order to make this measure truly helpful, we propose the following amendments. First of all, expand the range of beneficiaries. In its present form, the Grandparent gyed only provides assistance for a very narrow circle. Your proposal excludes grandparents who are already retired, who are receiving a widow's pension, or who are receiving a care allowance from the beneficiaries. What does that mean? It means that precisely those on whom young parents can rely are deprived of the opportunity of grandparents because they have time to deal with grandchildren. Our proposal is this: grandparents who receive care and widow's pension can use grandparents' children without limitation. Pensioners' grandparents should also be entitled to the grandparents' gyed that the combined amount of pension and grandparents' gyed is less than 200 per cent of the minimum amount of the basic wage for full-time workers. Our second amendment calls for a higher amount of grandparents' law in the case of single parents. Why are we suggesting this? Single parents are forced to go back to work faster, encouraging grandparents in their case is of particular importance, since these mothers, or in many cases fathers, are in an even more vulnerable position than those who raise children in an intact family, where both parents increase the family register. In the case of single parents, assistance within the family needs to be made even easier. With higher care, grandparents should be encouraged to help single mothers and fathers fight their daily lives. Therefore, it is recommended that the sum of the grandparents' children should be one and a half times the amount of the child raised by single parents. Thirdly, we respectfully suggest that grandparents should not be a single solution, but an alternative. In the drafting of the legislation, did the government think of the same fathers and mothers who live far away from grandparents and who are unable to use grandparents' children because of the geographical obstruction? Can the government help them, fellow Members? I believe that it should also be possible for women to go back to work without excluding grandparents from the labour market. What do you need for that? To finally drastically increase the number of cradle seats and to develop wages among cradle workers, as the government has repeatedly promised. These people, who take care of our children, the smallest members of the families of our fellow Hungarians in these institutions, are quite sad about the low wages they have to do this indispensable and important work from a nation strategy point of view, as they do every day from Monday to Friday. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Ladies and gentlemen, We understand and feel the intention behind the bill. The draft is not sufficiently developed in its current form, the range of right holders is unduly limited and does not give the parties concerned any discretion. We call for further professional consultation. This case is too important for a replacement to take place instead of real solutions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-05-28-38	Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2019-05-28-39	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Today we have heard several speeches about the details and details of the Grandparent child. But where we started, where we were going, and how we took the road to arriving until today's bill was negotiated, let's also go through it for a moment.In 2010, the family-friendly turn happened, after which we placed the family first, in Fidesz-KDNP's policy, the family is the first place, and we did everything we could to support families who have children in Hungary as much as possible. This is not a closed process, as has already been said, because we have taken a number of measures in recent years and there are still more to be expected. The same phenomenon cannot be said for the Balliberal-Socialist governments before 2010, because before 2010, families with children were the number one target of austerity by the Socialist Government, since the duration of the child was reduced from three to two years, home-building subsidies and programmes were abolished, family tax relief was abolished, and the family tax relief started with one and two children, and with continuous restrictions, tax increases and layoffs made the lives of families with children more difficult. This is why the family-friendly turn of events that took place in Hungary in 2010, as it was said, has doubled the support for families, making the Hungarian family support system proud to be the leader of the European Union. Once again, it's not the end of the road, we just keep going forward. But it is very important that we set an example in the European Union with the family support system and the family-friendly approach, because if we look at it now, in the European Parliament or even in the Council of Europe in Strasbourg, we cannot essentially talk about the family or talk about the traditional family, we get constant attacks when we make such topics or conferences, proposals for resolutions or speeches in these international institutions, because there is an attack on the family, it is the washing of the male and female sex, the relativisation of the family that we face in these international institutions. So it is important for Hungary to set an example in these times that the family is an important value-making, value-bearing unit, community of society, and we value-making and value-bearing community. This is how we started in 2010, and these were our basic objectives, and so came a series of measures that meant both material, moral, and mental-spiritual appreciation to families, whether we talk about family tax relief, whether we talk about re-establishing the child for three years, ged extra, college child, now the family protection plan or the family home-building discount. I think that an incredibly important step in this path is the family protection action plan, announced by Prime Minister Viktor Orbán in February this year, and four or five elements of which have already been discussed by the Hungarian Parliament and these debates have been held, since it is important to talk about this subject. I am pleased that, in principle or in part, we have found support in the Jobbik fraction, and we agree on the problems of developing family-friendly public thinking, or even solving population problems, with joint work and basically moving forward with joint work. Here I would like to reject the accusations that have been made many times both today and in previous debates, and which say that the Hungarian family support system is only open to a narrow layer and is directed towards a narrow layer. If we look at the full spectrum of family support, we can say that every family that has children can use some part of the family support system. If we see family tax relief, 97 percent of the right holders can live with the family tax reduction or its extension. If you look at the number of people who have already helped nearly half a million people with a family home-building discount of over 100,000, they already have a new home or have already been built thanks to the family home-building discount. [[11.10]] If you look at the number of people participating in the free children's meals or the free textbook program, if you look at how many people can work and receive the child's benefits at the same time with the child's extras, you can say that the whole of society is affected by the family support system and that the child's educators can use one or more elements of the Hungarian family support system in some form. I think that this is very important, and I therefore reject the opposition accusations that would speak of a narrow layer here. In the previous debate on the Family Protection Action Plan, we could get used to the fact that, for example, the ally of the Socialists, the Dialogue, would not be represented in any way in this debate, just as they did not vote for the Family Protection Action Plan, they did not consider it important to participate either in the plenary or in the committees, to comment, to give constructive criticism or even praise to the Family Protection Action Plan. This is what we used to expect from them, they are working against Hungarian families, and we expect nothing more than the Democratic Coalition, the Gyurcsány Party, who also voted against the Hungarian family support package, as they have always done, because they have not supported one family-friendly measure since 2010, and before 2010, they only worked against the Hungarian families. Now, in the European campaign, Mrs Gyurcsány has promised European wages, so far she has only managed to do so herself, no one else. [[Gergely Arató: He did not take over his mandate! Wait for it.]] I think it is very important that we can strengthen the intergenerational cooperation that is very much needed in Hungary and that can make a change in public thinking, because I think that from personal experience, whether when I have lived as a child, or even now when it comes to my own children, it is very important and very helpful when one or more grandparents are present in the family's life actively, can actively help, actively participate in babysitting, helping, dealing with all kinds of diseases or logistics problems. I consider this a very, very important role, and we are also grateful, whether I am my grandparents or my grandparents now, to be involved in this difficult task and to help us. I think that the grandparents are also capable of further strengthening this intergenerational cooperation and respect-based cooperation, and that they may be better attracted to the joys and difficulties of raising children by grandparents who may have done this less so far. This is an important opportunity for the government. I think that Grandparent Gyed is a very important innovative tool in the Hungarian family support system. I also think it is important because it can support this cooperation, in addition to the fact that the detailed rules have already been made and the detailed rules have been introduced to the public in recent weeks when the government has submitted this to Parliament, and we are obviously talking about it now. It is very important that Grandparent Gyed is a measure supported by the Hungarian people. In the national consultation there was a very positive strengthening support from Hungarian citizens over 93 percent of the results of the Grandparent Gyed. So we see that there is a demand for this. This is not a measure invented by one or two people in an official room, but it was the Hungarian people who wanted it, and the Hungarian people supported this measure, and that is why the majority of the Fidesz-KDNP in Parliament and the government felt that it was our duty to bring this to the Parliament, and it is our duty to establish the laws that the Hungarian people have asked of us. I would also ask my fellow opposition Members to do so, because the Hungarian people have asked for this through the national consultation, the Hungarian people have said yes to being a Grandparent, so they will support this measure with their supporting votes. I just wanted to say a quote that came to my mind during this debate, and I wrote it down for myself. Holy II. Pope John Paul said: "As the family is, so is the nation, and so is the whole world in which we live. This is precisely why it is important to change public thinking, which has already resulted in an increase in the number of marriages, a decrease in divorce rates, a decrease in the number of abortions and an increase in fertility rates. We see a shift in society because of family-friendly public thinking, because of the family-friendly turnaround, and we would like to further help Hungarian families not only with material but also with moral, spiritual and spiritual appreciation. I have to say that Hungarian families can count on Fidesz-KDNP, and the KDNP fraction supports the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-28-40	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Lajos Korózs, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2019-05-28-41	Thank you very much. Dear House, I could pick up where my colleague Lőrinc Nacs left off. In the first quarter of this year, there were 4.3 percent fewer children than in the same period of the previous year, while the number of deaths increased by 1.6 percent. This is your KSH this morning. Natural weight loss increased by 10 percent on a quarterly/quarter year basis. In detail: 20 830 children were born in the first quarter of this year, which was less than 4.3 percent lower than the first quarter of 2018. In January, the number of live births was 5.4, 4.5 in February and 3.1 in March compared to the same month in 2018. So here we are. It's a different reality than what they're proclaiming. I think, compared to the first announcements, we are not talking about benefits for retired grandparents, but about benefits for still working, active grandparents, which impose a number of conditions. It is therefore likely to affect a much narrower circle than many people thought at first, which is what my fellow Members have referred to here. It is important that the proposal does not include the protection of the labour rights of active-age grandparents, while the Government's decision that gave the main directions previously was adopted - see: I will also quote here later that during the payment of the benefit, the grandparents will receive unpaid leave and notice protection. Furthermore, there is no provision that would guarantee that the period of payment of benefits for the purposes of the social security pension constitutes a period of service, as is also provided for in that Government Decision. These problems also raise the need to submit amending proposals, as well as the fact that other health insurance recipients, for example, are receiving people with disabilities, are no longer entitled to benefits. Among other things, this was referred to by Jobbik's speaker. In view of the conditions imposed, you cannot be retired, but you cannot work as a grandparent, so you have to leave your work, both parents have to work, and you cannot have a baby in daycare, you can only be at the grandparents during the day, you simply have no lifelike support in this form. There are several reasons for this. Today you can work next to the lawn after the child's six months of age, so the parent receives the care calculated on the basis of his own earnings even if he works. Why would he give up the extra money for the grandparent's benefit? In addition, the grandparents have to leave work in a pre-retirement period. Why would anyone refer to this, my fellow Members, while, by the way, the grandparents can easily claim it today, which they will receive in addition to the pension. This is what Fidesz introduced in 2001, it must be acknowledged, but it was also possible for those who did not receive a pension. The MSZP has extended the range of pensioners' rights, which is a much more vital support system, but it is probably not being used by many, although the data are not known. I don't know if there's been a recent statistical survey on this. Grandparents can provide a solution if there really is no nursery space for the child, and for some reason it doesn't matter to the grandparents if they leave their work, and neither does the parent, if he doesn't receive the money, or if he's kind enough to make the grandparent eligible. By the way, the latter could even be a blackmail, which means that the grandparent, who, in the meantime, was taking care of the child during the day, would ask the parent to receive the care, but he still has to quit his job. Even the rare case is that the family is in business, and they ask Grandpa or Grandma to come to your home and share the benefits, because variations can fit in. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] It is possible that the underlying government objective is to push older people out into the labour market, since they would not be subject to the extra benefit of the child, so they will not receive the benefit at work. It is interesting that according to the justification, the Grandparent Childcare Prize acknowledges the work where the non-retired grandparents, helping working parents, participate in the care of their granddaughter. This raises a number of questions. That means raising a child is a job. So, if this is done by a retired grandparent, it's not a job. Care for the children of not working parents, but of students or parents seeking work is not worth supporting. This means that a parent, a grandparent who does not have enough insurance time in advance, is not worth raising children as a job, and this level of support, since some people receive basically only a tenth of the amount of support through children, such as a parent who receives care through the lawd. Support, however many or few people have the potential, is essentially designed for high-income, better-favoured families, which further enhances the growing inequalities in family support. [[11.20]] Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The institution of the Grandparent child in this form is not a viable form of support, which has also been referred to by my fellow Members. It doesn't answer the real problems. Since many people are taking up their first child more and more later, in many cases the grandparents are retired, who are already excluded from the right. Meanwhile, for 18 years, there has been a grandparent child, which I mentioned, which can be used by pensioners, but at a much lower rate. Therefore, a significant increase and indexation of the amount of child, child, maternity allowance would be a much more important step, thus supporting parents and grandparents. Even in the announcement of the Family Protection Action Plan, we said that population loss is due to a number of reasons. One problem is emigration. One in six children is born abroad today. I also note that those who give birth at home will pack and leave Hungary as soon as possible. The other problem is high mortality, so it is particularly important to improve health care. Last but not least, the number of births needs to be strengthened. However, this requires complex measures, ranging from social policy to education, housing and health. That's why the MSZP submitted the H/5359 titled "Children, Family, Equipment." A proposal for a resolution, which was voted out by the pro-government representatives at the meeting of the Committee on Welfare. At the same time, families are particularly important to the MSZP. We believe that the state should also support the birth and upbringing of the child. So not only the birth of the child, but also the raising of the child must be supported. Thank you very much for your patience.
u2019-05-28-42	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Thank you very much.
u2019-05-28-43	Thank you very much. Dear House, When we talk about the proposal, I am very pleased to see that Minister of State Rétvári has already studied the activities of the Gyurcsány government in such detail as to see the Democratic Coalition behind the flood and drought, but the truth is that he is wrong. I can tell you that I would like to present the position of the Democratic Coalition, and you can rest assured that the other opposition representatives and opposition parties have their own positions, which they have said in part and partly. However, there is certainly also agreement among opposition parties that we do not dispute the joint intention of both sides of the House to have more children in Hungary, so that these children can grow up in better conditions, so that families can receive more support for raising children. There is therefore not a debate between us, honourable Members, between the government and the opposition, but in methods. We say that the measures that you are doing and suggesting are good on paper, but in practice, not only are they not helping, they are hurting. Here, both Minister of State and Secretary of State Rétvári drew imaginary lines and spoke on the basis of how much more children would have been born now than if I didn't know what was happening, and I don't know where we draw statistical lines. Just, dear fellow Members, dear Secretary of State, dear Secretary of State, this is not the reality. What's real? In 2008, in the last year of the Gyurcsány government, 99 149 children were born; in 2018, in your last closed year, 89 800 children were born. Almost 10,000 less children! That's what your family policy is worth, that's how much they could stop the decrease in the number of children. From now on, I would expect a little more modesty from you, as we have been listening to production reports and victory reports all morning. It took Mrs. Secretary of State 12 minutes to get to the bill at all. There's a reason why you did this, because you can't brag about this bill. Once again, you have promised a great deal, and you do very little. They talked about creating a pensioner to acknowledge the work of pensioners who play a major role in raising children and supporting families. I can hardly believe that anyone in this Parliament would argue that this is an important goal, that if the economy fits well, as you claim, then it is very right that more support should be given to pensioners or older people, grandparents, who are involved in raising children, who help families, for whom, indeed, as has been said several times here, we owe a great deal to most of us personally. But if so, why is this suggestion so narrow? Then why can only pensioners who are not yet retired receive this allowance? Then how do we expect people who are already in a bad position in the labour market, because you are talking about a shortage of workers, but then ask some of these workers, like me, over the '50s, how they can get a job, how can they find a job for themselves? Ask the elderly to undertake to leave their jobs, and they will be able to go back, not on paper, in reality. Ask them to be able to accept that in their qualifying years, a significant portion of their earnings will be waived. Can you give up your pension in a country where the minimum pension is still less than HUF 28,000, which has not been raised in ten years? In such a country, which pensioner is capable of resigning part of his later pension? Ladies and gentlemen, This is bullshit! The rules of this proposal are laid down in such a way as not to cost the government anything. This is the same as the majority of your family policy: they talk a lot and do very little. Let me speak to another part of this proposal. They say it's a condition for parents to have an employment relationship. So you can't have the parent if you don't have an employment relationship. What's up? If the parent loses his job, at that moment you will be deprived of this care from the elderly, the grandparents, and from this point on, the parent will use it, so they will not give you a chance to rejoin the labour market in time and opportunity. Once again, families and people who are in the most difficult situation are being punished, families where they have problems finding work, where they have trouble earning a decent wage. You would, therefore, once again create a support that is only available to very few. There have been a number of proposals from all opposition parties that, if they are serious about this, they should not be narrow-minded. If you're serious about this, take your own proposal seriously. Then extend this proposal to all grandparents, find the right forms, and do not tie it to rules either with parents or with grandparents that are not or are very difficult to achieve. If you really believe that this is an important goal, even in order to increase the opportunity for families with children to stay in the labour market, to work more easily, so that there is no disadvantage due to the exclusion from the labour market, in particular, mothers and women, that is an important goal, then let us talk about this. Find good professional solutions! Here again, unfortunately, you are trying to win propaganda and not to help the Hungarian families. It is the same story as the element of their family support system, which has been mentioned here a lot, where they offer loans, but the news has just come out today that they impose this baby shower loan on conditions that are not available to nearly half of the recipients. So even those who want to use it are excluded from it. This is exactly the same trick. It'll sound very good, it'll be a nice, long talk in Parliament, and it'll help very few people. We will support this proposal if it provides real help to families, if they have conditions that allow most of the families, all grandparents, to make use of them. Because we can support a family support system in which every family and every child is important, in which every family and every child is important. That is why we have initiated our proposal earlier, which you have not even been willing to discuss here, to talk about the problems that affect all Hungarian families. Let's talk about eviction for families with little children. Let's talk about broken health care. Let's talk about the slave law that separates parents from their own families. Let's talk about when the family allowance will finally be increased. And when will the care fee be recognised as an employment relationship? If you want to help Hungarian families, if you want more Hungarian children to be born, then at least you should be willing to discuss the measures that are important to all Hungarian families. They don't give fake measures, they don't give fake discounts, they give real support to Hungarian families, we'll be partners in this. Thank you very much. [[11.30]]
u2019-05-28-44	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Márta Demeter, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2019-05-28-45	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The LMP has already indicated that we support the points of the Family Protection Action Plan, which has been explained in previous debates. After all, we consider it very important to put the smallest unity of society, the family, first, and it is clearly the task of the Parliament to support the Hungarian families. What we have in mind is that it is necessary to support families in the context of real problems, and it is also a fact that for many grandparents grandparents, it can be a solution to devote their energies and time most to their families. It is also very important that children can be extremely constructive in their physical and mental development, so that they can be raised in a known, safe environment, in love and with greater care, so we consider these measures necessary. However, I would like to point out that it may be difficult to use grandparents' children if grandparents do not live in a settlement, for example, with the family. Families who live hundreds of miles away are not given access to this possibility, so this kind of construction, which has been formulated here, only helps families and family members who live close to each other. So it's worth changing in any way. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the births are increasingly being pushed out, that young people are becoming children later, so that it may occur that many grandparents will not be able to take advantage of the opportunities given by their grandparents, because by the time they become grandparents, they will reach the retirement age by then, so that they will slip away from the opportunities provided by the government. The LMP will submit a number of amendments to the bill. First of all, I would like to mention that grandparents over the age of 50 who will go for 2-3 years will find it much more difficult to return to the world of work, which, by the way, is a huge risk, which is very often a problem and difficulty for young people, especially when they are over 50 years old. They may not be able to work at all, so they fall out of the labour market as young people do. It is therefore necessary to take action to protect grandparents so that they can fit back into the world of work as soon as possible and continue their occupation. Our other amendment will be to ensure that grandparents can work next to Gyed for 4 hours. With the ged extra, parents can take up work, while there is no provision for grandparents to do any other work except work at home. In today's world, we think that both financially and in terms of activity, grandparents should be given the opportunity not only to take care of the grandchild but also to take up work for at least four hours. We also consider it very important that single-parent families give priority support to this scheme and that this specific proposal should be extended to widows' pensioners. We will therefore make use of these amendments, and we will also ask the Secretary of State, the pro-government representatives and the members of the Commission to support these amendments, since we say that this is a good measure, that this should be extended and that this option should be made more realistic at certain points. We will, of course, see how many families will take advantage of this opportunity in the future, and, if it is necessary to expand the resources, we will certainly support it on our part. I would like to point out that, in the case of this construction, it is the right thing to do to give this support directly to families. In addition, further measures are still needed, since there is still little mention of how divorces can be prevented. In the case of this arrangement and in other forms of support, it will be a very big problem if parents divorce, if the desired children cannot be born, and therefore should be encouraged by further measures. For example, single-parent families should be given priority support and a number of proposals have been submitted, unfortunately they have not yet been supported by the government, and I would like to ask for this again, such as raising the single-parent family allowance and extending the large-family benefits to single-parent and single-child families, and, of course, in addition to encouraging parents not only to have one child but as much as possible, but we would like the first child to be born as soon as possible. In addition, the government has set itself the goal of expanding the number of cradle seats, as we can see, but this number of cradle seats is still not enough. Obviously, it will also take time, and we will continue to say that it is necessary to make daycare completely free; unfortunately, this has not happened to this day. More intensive support should also be given to the flask program so that the desired children can be born, as tens of thousands of people are affected by this problem. They need help, both with spiritual support and with legal and material assistance. In addition, the introduction of a substantial rental scheme would be necessary in addition to the fact that the government has launched a housing programme, but this is a relatively narrowing structure. We would like the support of many more families to be implemented with a substantial rental program, which, by the way, could create many jobs. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, for example, in the case of baby shower support, it is a specific goal to support children, but it is completely incomprehensible to us why they put money in banks' pockets. Why? Why not give it directly to families, as in the case of, for example, this support, which is now covered by the specific bill? It could also be done in the case of a baby shower program that not banks are filled with money, not banks receive these kinds of discounts, but families directly. So we also suggest that this money should go directly to couples, families, not banks, and, by the way, with the money that doesn't go into banks' pockets, more families can be supported. In addition, it is essential to rethink the economic and social policy that the government is implementing at the moment. After all, although measures are being taken to help families, the number of births has fallen again. So it would be essential to rethink whether the kind of neoliberal policy that the government is pursuing is for purpose, whether it is for the continued support of multinational companies rather than for domestic micro, small and medium-sized enterprises to receive much more support, and these companies could employ a lot more people locally, thus contributing to ensuring that young people do not leave Hungary and offer them a meaningful perspective, jobs and decent wages. This would, of course, require a substantial wage increase. The LMP therefore says that there is also a need for a change in economic policy, as this will help create an environment that will make the Hungarian economy more sustainable, and that the competitiveness of the economy cannot be based on consciously kept wages, but must give decent wages to Hungarian people. In addition to the further decrease in birth numbers, it is sad that 610 thousand young people have left Hungary and went abroad to work and are starting a family there. Today, one in six motherland children are born abroad. We want these children and future children to be born here in Hungary. It is a terrifying fact that as many people have left Hungary, at least so many are planning to leave the country in the coming years. I would very much ask the government and the pro-government representatives here to take the necessary measures to avoid this kind of nationary tragedy. We believe that it is a tragedy that if the desired children are not born here on the spot, they will be born in Hungary. [[11.40]] It is therefore necessary to extend these subsidies. We ask that you consider and support our amendments to this bill and that we have presented them. And we can assure you, and especially the Hungarian families, that LMP supports and initiates all measures that can provide meaningful assistance to Hungarian families. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2019-05-28-46	Thank you, Congresswoman. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Dóra Dúró.
u2019-05-28-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Of course, representatives of the Hungarian Movement support this proposal, as we defined our demographic disaster as the biggest problem in Hungary, but I have to criticise both the left-wing opposition and the government on this proposal, on the subject of the debate, and on the policy they have conducted and are pursuing against families. I find it extremely unstandard for representatives of MSZP, DK and LMP to keep talking about the decrease in births. You would be right if this trend had only taken place since 2010, but this trend is mainly due to the decline in the number of women of childbearing age from year to year. For example, in 2019 there are 81 thousand women in Hungary, 40 years old, and in 10 years there will be only 35 thousand. Clearly, 35,000 women of childbearing age will not have as many children as 81,000. So, yes, if we look at this data alone, then we get a false picture of the trends and trends that are actually taking place in Hungary. What is meaningful is the number of children per mother, fertility. And that, my fellow Members, has grown since 2010; it has, however, increased to a very small extent. Getting this out of the way and arguing with numbers is discrediting and discrediting this debate, so I hope that this will not happen later. In 2010, the number of children per mother was 1.27; in 2018, this was a clear increase of 1.48. At the same time, what Viktor Orbán set out for 2030 to be 2.1 by then is completely unrealistic with such a policy. During the nine years of Viktor Orbán's governance, only 0.2 of fertility has been improved, and in order to reach this 2.1 by 2030, this increase would have to be tripled in nearly the same amount of time that these measures and overall the family protection action plan are not suitable for. It is not appropriate because the Fidesz government should take on a number of conflicts that it simply does not do. And a very serious barrier to this grandparent child will also be the phenomenon with which the government has not started anything in the last ten years, nor have they started anything in the preceding period, namely that the mother's age was extremely extended when the first child was born. And it is very important to talk about this, since it has made it impossible for hundreds of thousands of children to be born, because the mother's age has a significant impact on her ability to have children and how many children she can have. A generation ago, it was not typical of women in higher education to participate in this mass, and I do not want to talk about it, because it is welcome, of course, if they continue to learn, if women train themselves as much as possible, and it is very glad that they now have the opportunity to do so, but, for example, in my parents' time, this was much less typical than it is today. Nowadays, higher education involves more women than men, but this social change has not been followed by Hungarian politics in the last thirty years. This contributed to the fact that the average age of a Hungarian woman in the first child is now thirty years old. At the same time, biology cannot be fooled. It is clear from Mary Kopp's research that both biologically and psychologically the ideal period for the first child is the 20s of a mother, and we have not followed this social change politically and socially, so it is difficult for the first child to be born to hundreds of thousands of young Hungarian families. This is why fertility has become a popular disease in Hungary, because at thirty years of age, a woman is 3.5 times more barren than the same woman at twenty years of age. And the consequence of this is that, for example, Géza Kaali, whose institute carries out the most flask baby intervention in Hungary, talks about the fact that today one in four couples can only father children in Hungary with medical help. Let's face it, it's not normal in a society. And this is also related to the fact that the grandparents are of such an age that they are spiritually and physically fresh enough to help young people raise children and have children. Because it is true that if, say, a mother is 25 to have her first child, then she, if her child is the same age, can be a grandma or a grandpa at the age of 50 You may need to But if you're only 35 years old, you'll be around the age of 70 when your granddaughter is born. It is therefore a very serious social trend, which has taken place in Hungary over the last 30 years, and it has not been proposed by this government or by previous socialist governments. It would therefore be necessary to create family-friendly higher education for young people and give them a family-friendly career, because the disadvantage women must suffer in the labour market is not because of their femininity, but because of their motherhood. The wage disadvantage also occurs with a mother after having a child. And a society with that attitude, it's quite obvious that it won't be able to sustain itself in the long run. If society, the employer, the labour market punishes you for becoming a mother, it will not be attractive to you. So we need to intervene very seriously, very radically and very quickly in the labour market to reverse this demographic trend. But no meaningful government action was taken. It is quite amazing that the speaker of the socialists is questioning the lifelike nature of this proposal, and then he begins to talk about someone trusting his child to someone else who is blackmailing him. [[Lajos Korózs intervenes.]] Well, let's not joke. If a man blackmails his own child for 140,000, 150,000 forints and a grandparent, then his child will entrust his child, the grandson, to a mother who can blackmail him for 140,000 forints? Speaking of lifelike, at least not such examples, which is absurd anyway. On the part of DK, the fact that such measures are a direct harm to families is also quite amazing. But what can be debated is that they will have access to this form of support, it is possible to argue that it should be extended to those who can use it, but that is clearly not true. The fact that some people are unable to use it does not mean that the measure will not harm, but that it will use it, even if it is slightly, it will help. We see that, and we are extremely dissatisfied with the efficiency of the government's family policy, because we see that in nine years we have managed to increase fertility by only 0.2, even though we would need a lot more, and even that 2.1 fertility rate for the 2030 target date cannot be reached, but Hungary itself would settle in on about 6-7 million people, unfortunately. If we are talking about grandparents and about the role of grandparents in the family, it is certainly gratifying that this measure will draw attention to this aspect, this draft, because it is important to recognise not only parents but also grandparents, and to reward their sacrifice financially. At the same time, I must draw attention to two trends and trends that weaken the effectiveness of this measure and our demographic situation. [[11.50]] One of them is emigration. Unfortunately, children whose parents work abroad or stay abroad for a longer period of time simply do not have a Grandparent experience or very few. That is why it is important, also because of emotional considerations, that this trend be reduced or even reversed. Moreover, children born abroad in Hungarian families should be an extremely important task to create their Hungarian identity. So, if they are no longer allowed to have a grandparent experience, it would be important to build institutional systems for Hungarians who migrate abroad to Western Europe, who live in a block, since unfortunately we can talk about a number of Hungarians living in a block so that they can raise their children into Hungarian identity and knowledge of Hungarian culture. However, there is no public institutional system, no public initiative to do so. However, it will be very difficult to bring these children back to Hungary, who have no social experience with our country, but also acquire their school and kindergarten experiences and friends abroad. So, besides raising the family into Hungarian, it is important that they also receive state aid for this. On the other hand, single - parent families and those who, for example, will not be able to benefit from this care because of geographical distances have been mentioned. There are a lot of civil initiatives in Hungary that are based on a so-called supplementary grandmother's programme, where pensioners in a given settlement or community are helping families who are unable to get in touch with grandparents, for example, because of geographical distances, or the age of grandparents no longer allows them to be able to provide meaningful support because of their health condition. With the involvement of the social system, of course, in a controlled framework, I would like the state to embrace these civil initiatives and encourage such initiatives, as it would be an emotional surplus for many people who have remained alone and are elderly if they could regularly work with children, if they regularly went to community, helped these children, and could also give parents enormous emotional and logistical help if the elderly in the settlement would help families living in the settlement in question to attend a special class, or to have an experience in which they do not have different family reasons. To sum up, I can therefore say that we naturally support this measure, just as any measure that assists any family is certainly to be supported and forward-looking, but we cannot expect any change or substantial change in harmful demographic trends from this measure. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause for the independent congressmen.]]
u2019-05-28-48	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Katalin Novák.
u2019-05-28-49	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Since we have left with Mr Rétvári State Secretary that we will be sharing government contributions, I would like to respond now to the comments that have been made, even if Mr Korózs has already left; I will also respond to his comments to those who are still in the room. I have listened to the comments and found that fortunately, there are those who support them, and I especially thank those fellow Members and the factions who have given their support to the introduction of the Grandparent child. So thank you for your supporting contributions. The more people we stand for families, the more people we represent the interests of Hungarian families, the more we will be able to help Hungarian young people and families who have children. At the same time, when I was listening to the comments, I also found that there were those who expressed the criticism that yes, that is good, but that more should be given, and that should be multiplied by three plus ten plus fifteen. You can always say that, so you can always say a number bigger than a number, and I don't think that's necessarily a forward-looking, constructive proposal. Then there was a comment in which we had already announced the measures, in which I can actually see the confirmation, I hear that we are on the right track, that it will be worth introducing these even planned steps, such as flexible work, the expansion of cradle seats, the wage increases in cradle. This is part of the measures already notified. Then we met to a small extent with the usual demagogy, deception, misconception. I can't tell sometimes, the truth is that this is a matter of malice or stupidity in the case of some Members' comments, ignorance or conscious deception; one is not necessarily better than the other. Many of these have been heard, and I will not put them all in order, but I would like to respond in any case to these findings, whether out of malice or mere indiscretion. It is sad that Members arrive at such debates so uninformed. When they talk about how many children are born abroad, we don't get to say it enough, it's just not real data. The fact that the representatives of DK do not consider Hungarians from across the border Hungarians Hungarians to be Hungarians is something we are used to, we know [[Zsolt Gréczy: Don't lie, Madam Secretary, it's not worth it...]] We are constantly witnessing the uprising against Hungarians born abroad, but the fact that children born outside Hungary, born in Hungary, within the Carpathian Basin, are born beyond our borders, I think, is a total distortion. The same is true of what Mrs Dóra Dúró has quite rightly put in place on several points, and I would just like to confirm that. When they talk about how if we still had DK government, how many children would there be, and what a glorious time it was for family support, we cry back. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Several children were born.]] I think that is the opinion of very few people, about as many people sitting in the parliamentary benches in the colours of DK. So it seems to me that there is no mass demand for family support for that period to be returned to anyone. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] But I wouldn't call it family support anyway, because they took away practically everything we had given them before, and that's obviously what they would do if they ever had the opportunity to do it again. So how demographic data would have evolved and evolved is indeed a total distortion and indiscretion, what you said in this regard, Member, because it is true that if those fertility indicators had remained in place, there would be 88,000 fewer children today than there are. So I ask that we do not deceive the Hungarian people. When we talk about demographics, let's not look at monthly data. Let's look at annual data. We always say that I am stressing it right now, we are not doing well, the situation is not easy, which is why it is not easy for us to do things when we want to achieve a demographic turn. It is also about how many people migrate and everyone wants to leave Hungary. Again, I'd like you to take a look at the data. The indicator in which KSH has just come out that last year was the first year when more people came back to Hungary who were born in Hungary than the number of people left. So, again, this is something that they either don't read, or they don't want to take note of, but we can certainly witness a misdirection without these facts for many times now. An amending proposal has not yet been submitted to our bill. We look forward to proposals for amendments, then we will be able to look at them individually and examine them. If you have constructive comments, suggestions, we thank you in advance. What I can fix now is that there's been some kind of misconception. Some comments have shown that in the case of grandparents, there is a misunderstanding about what this option is about, what this proposal is about. I would no longer like to judge Mr Korózs' statement that it will be possible to abuse it, how it can be tricked. He is already living with the malice of how older people will take advantage of it, how the family will play tricks and count their grandparents' lawn. I think it would be right for anyone to ask for that assumption when we are discussing the bill. In the same way, such a statement, once again rather interesting, and demagogy, was said that it would fail again in the same way as the baboon support failed. That's interesting after he hasn't even started yet. It's like when I was written about the criticism of one of my speeches in Verona, when I hadn't even given my speech, I wasn't there, but it was already known what kind of reception he had. This, let's say, is not so much annoyed by journalists, but we would expect a greater level of seriousness from Members. [[12.00]] As regards the specific proposals regarding grandparents' children and comments, this is not for families where they are retired. That's not the intention. Congresswoman Dúró has also spoken about this. I can only confirm that this is not the case. We do not want to help large families here with this new opportunity where retired grandparents can do this anyway, which is what they can do at the moment, but we want to help families where parents work, grandparents work, and if everyone works, what opportunity is there for them to get help from the day-to-day placement of small children: nursery care. We're developing, we're expanding kindergarten care. Yes, where grandparents do not live in a settlement, it is probably more realistic to help, but there are a lot of situations where they live in a settlement, Grandma or Grandpa would be happy to help raise the granddaughter, but he can't do that, because he can't say at work that I'm staying home for a year, I'm asking for an unpaid leave for a year, and then I'll take care of the granddaughter. That is not possible today. These families will be helped by your grandparents. There was also a comment about the impact of the budget and its braked foaming in this sense. I would like to draw Mr President's attention to the fact that this has, we can say, a relatively moderate budgetary impact, or, in budgetary terms, it does not count as an expensive measure, it was not our intention to spend as much money as possible, but rather to create opportunities, because there is a loss from the parent's side, and it is actually given to the grandparents instead. So, however we combine this, in this sense, after the parent's child is taken over by the grandparents, in this sense, in the budgetary impact of this is not necessarily a multiple of the present, but I do not think that is a goal. The goal is to provide real, meaningful help to those who want grandparents to be as active as possible in raising a child. There was also a point of substance from Mr Korózs, which I am basically not questioning, but again, that he said one half of one sentence, that he had not read the other half of it, he did not say. He referred to a government decision. If you had read that government decision or shared the other half with us, then you know precisely that yes, there will be labour rights guarantees, we also have a task in this regard, there is also a deadline for enforcing these labour rights guarantees, and we will also have to come here to Parliament with a legislative amendment, and this option will start next year on 1 January. So in the autumn session, we will be discussing the grandparents' child and the related labour and labour market guarantees, so that the same protection applies to grandparents and they can use the law as bravely and freely as parents can do in addition to labour law guarantees and labour law protection. So these guarantees will be provided, if you are willing to give your support to them, and you can really do it regardless, but how good it would be for you to support them. Overall, I see that the directions were at least undisputed. I think it's definitely a positive thing. I believe that if substantive, substantive proposals come in written form and there is one that does not conflict with our goals, our intentions, or the nature of the Grandparent child, if you understand and can add something to that, then we will gladly look at those proposals and look at them individually. I'm asking you to stay out of the way of introducing your grandparents' children. Believe me, this will open a door again to families where grandparents are currently unable to actively engage in babysitting, custody of the granddaughter. This will give children a lifelong experience that they can only receive through grandparents, so I ask you to provide their support for the legislative proposals on grandparents' children. I thank Mr Secretary of State for his active participation in the debate. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-05-28-50	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Now it is possible to make two-minute comments. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has applied.
u2019-05-28-51	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to appeal to my lead speaker, KDNP, to be a little more careful about the emigration balance here. I agree with Mrs State Secretary, we must put the real diagnosis on the table and help the particularly difficult situation wherever possible. To say things that more people come home to Hungary than many people migrate from here is not only irresponsible, but they do not encounter the soil of reality. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: This is real! Even the German Statistical Office said that, not just the Hungarian!]] I ask my fellow Member not to distort me, because, on the one hand, you count in the balance of the returnees our Hungarian brothers across the border who, if necessary, [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We don't even count children born abroad.]] They're moving to Chenka-Hungary. That, on a voluntary or coercive basis, this is another issue, but rather they should support their autonomy efforts in order to thrive in everyone's homeland in the Carpathian Basin. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Did you do your math with Gyurcs?]] Mr. Secretary, if you press the button, you'll get the floor any time, I won't. If you can't show that much respect to your fellow Member, [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: I was just correcting your speech.]] Then please think about acting properly as Secretary of State, and once again, your responsibility is quite different from mine. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You have nothing to say! That's all you can say!]] On the other hand, with regard to the emigration balance, I would also like to point out to Mr Nacsa who is counted among the emigrants according to the statistics. Typically, those who have arranged social security conditions, in Hungarian, handed over their property card. This is not the typical Hungarian life situation, my fellow Member. A lot of foreign exchange credit-damaged people in the Dutch slaughterhouse earn the higher wages they pay for their credit here, but they don't necessarily give up their property card, they don't even give up their place of residence, they don't give up their social security status. My request is that you do not try to distort reality. Madam Secretary of State's line is the right one. He says it's a difficult situation, I agree with him, and this difficult situation needs to be resolved, we need to try to ease tensions. By distorting reality, you will not be able to achieve results. These problems still exist, and if they were fair, we would have to solve them together. Thank you. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Applause?]]
u2019-05-28-52	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy in two minutes.
u2019-05-28-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, On the one hand, I strongly reject the words of Katalin Novak. For the Democratic Coalition, all Hungarian children across the border are as important as any other Hungarian citizen. [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] It is not my fault that Fidesz changed his position on Hungarians across the border as much as anyone else did on his underwear. [[Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz: 180 degrees turn! Shame on you.]] We did not withdraw when the word Trianon was spoken, but Prime Minister Viktor Orbán ordered the Fidesz fraction to take care and withdraw. During the first Orbán government, János Martonyi promised the Venice Commission that the Orbán government would not introduce dual citizenship. When dual citizenship was introduced, they said when it was a particular referendum that there would be no voting rights, it would be just a passport. It became a voting right, and then the election families happen. So much for Hungarians across the border. You would be a family-friendly government if you were to withdraw the slave law and not oblige people to work on Saturdays or work 10 to 12 hours a day. [[Happy István: You can see that you are in the same place as Z. Transcarpathian Dániel! Bolsheviks!]] Let's say, in the state administration, that your stupid and limited laws are being developed. For example, they would have done much if the kindergarten program and cradle-building program of the Gyurcsány government had not been stopped. They would do much for Hungarian families, for example, if they were to provide access to the university, say, for young people, and there would be no brutal tuition fees, if, say, they were to start a housing program and not build stadiums, then more children would be born. So all the other activities you're doing, that's nothing but hoax, nothing more than giant billboard steering. They put their lies on their billboards for ten billion dollars, but that's not on a thank-you basis. Let me just draw your attention to today's data. This is the recent data of KSH: in the first quarter, today's data decreased by 4.3 percent compared to the same period of the previous year, while the number of deaths increased by 1.6 percent, and natural weight loss increased by 10 percent. You've been ruling for nine years. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Applause?]]
u2019-05-28-54	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa for a two-minute comment.
u2019-05-28-55	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, However, this continuous two-minute lie from the representatives of the Gyurcsány Party is outrageous. Congressman, this is not the People's Freedom, where you could write any lies when you wrote there, and everyone believed it. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Your Mai KSH, sir! Today's KSH!]] You were the ones who denied Hungarians across the border in 2004 and have been campaigning against them ever since. This is your party. That's all they can promise. This is your party. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Where was he Romanian? Give me a quote. He's lying!]] I would just like to say to my fellow Member, Mr Z. Kárpát, that I did not just talk about emigration in my speech, that you are confusing me with someone else, but that is what you are saying. I would ask you... because sometimes you say, when it is good for you to speak, that this rock-solid KSH is what we trust to say, when you can turn it against the government, sometimes you tell them not to believe this KSH data, which has just come out, that more people have returned home than others have gone, because it is obviously a lie. So now you decide whether citing KSH is okay or not okay. [[12.10]] KSH brought out this data, as the Secretary of State said: last year more people came home from Hungary than the number of people who left. We think it's good news. I'm sorry for you, but it's still good news, so let's enjoy it together. I think it is in our common interest if this trend continues, and we are happy about it, so please take the data of the Statistical Office seriously and refer to it in the way it deserves to be. For example, Congressman Gréczy has just referred to another KSH data. I think that we either take each other seriously or not, but I think it's good news, so we should all be happy together and take steps that will further strengthen this process. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-05-28-56	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Márius Révész in two minutes.
u2019-05-28-57	Thank you very much. I have to say that my colleague Zsolt Gréczy's comment was rare, but he asked us to give an example of when Hungarians across the border were Romanianised. I don't know if you remember when the campaign of 2002 was going to flood Hungary with 23 million Romanians, and your dear boss was proud that he did this great campaign; and then there was another campaign two years later, when they had quite amazing conditions, for example, about what would happen if, let's say, Hungarians were given citizenship. Look at what they said back in the day. Otherwise, there would be a little more modesty on your part, because in Hungary, at a historic low point, the fertility rate was when you finished the government. [[Zsolt Gréczy: A lot of fertility rates have cried up in the hospital.]] 1.27 percent, and these numbers are very, very difficult to improve. The amok run you've done to your families can be corrected by years of work. And just one more sentence about the legacy they left behind: in 2006 do you know how much the Hungarian budget was lacking? 9.3 percent. Hungarian government debt was increased, and as a result HUF 1500 billion had to be spent on debt repayment in 2011. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You only stole private pensions.]] Since you added about 30-35 percent to the debt, this means that each year, because of your borrowing, we paid some HUF 300-400 billion for the debt you have accumulated in addition in eight years. If, say, it could be used for education or health care, this country would not look like this. We are still trying to balance and balance the burden of your governance at around HUF 300-400 billion per year in the budget. That's the legacy they left us. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-05-28-58	Thank you, Congressman. We now return to the normal speeches. I give the floor to Sigismund Barna Paul of Fidesz.
u2019-05-28-59	Dear House, In February, the Prime Minister announced the Family Protection Action Plan, and one of the seven points was the Grandparent's Gyed, i.e. if the parents decide in the future, the grandparents can stay in their place. I would like to quote the Prime Minister: neither the third-thirds nor the outstanding economic growth have been presented as a gift. Hungary has worked hard for both. There is a deep correlation between politics and the economy, and the results are never due to blind luck. And if we remember 2009, then we can remember that the left-wing terror government has bankrupted the country and, thanks to the good performance of the economy, the economic policy of the last nine years has allowed these family protection measures to be introduced today. And the good news is, as has been said, the budget coverage of the measures is also guaranteed. I would now like to say further good news, because so many bad news has been said here by my fellow opposition Members. Today, the number of marriages is increasing, infant mortality has decreased, employment has increased from 55 percent to 70 percent, unemployment has virtually disappeared, incomes are constantly increased and the minimum wage has more than doubled. It's important that we talk about these, because according to you, there are all kinds of creepy images that could be visualized here, while these facts, these statistics, are the statistics. My colleague Gabriella Selmeczi presented the details of the bill in detail as a keynote speaker, and I particularly liked the wording of Hungary, as this figure of speech expresses very much what we are imagining the future of Hungary not with immigrants, but with the support of Hungarian children and Hungarian families. It also states that, with this family protection action plan, the government says, among other things, that raising children is an achievement that should be recognised at Community level and also expresses the fact that Hungary spends the most money in support of families in Europe. The vast majority of people support family protection measures, as demonstrated by the national consultation. It is a pity that the opposition attacked this at the time and did not consider it important to participate in the consultation. And if we look around for a moment in Europe, we see that European states, the vast majority of Europeans, live their lives in a traditional way, consider the family to be the most important. However, many people disagree with the current government proposals and disagree with Hungary's family support action plan. The biggest problem in Western Europe is that they treat family support as a taboo and only address migration as a substitute for declining birth deficit. However, they do not ask the real question, the question of why population reduction . In the Council of Europe, where I represented Hungary, there have been numerous proposals on rainbow families, rainbow families, but in the last year there have been no proposals on family support, child rearing and child support. It is important that we can speak honestly about these issues in Hungary today, we can talk about it, and one of the most important benefits of the family protection action plan, beyond financial support, is that the family, raising children, is at the heart of the public discourse. Today it is no shame for a large family to go down the street, a child who is born into a large family, not ashamed to say at school, that I have many brothers, but will have value, the family will be in its real place, the child will be in its real place, because in recent years, in recent decades, we can say, the large family was practically a disgrace, the many children were ashamed, the raising of children was in the background, and the consumer society ruled everything. It is important that this is an important topic in public speaking in Hungary, we treat the family as a value, we also treat the child as a value. Let me also say a few words about the opposition, although my fellow Members have already done so. It is important, however, that when Gyurcsány and the socialists governed, families were the number one target of austerity. It is important that MSZPs and DKs have not supported family support measures in recent years, including the introduction of family tax incentives or the family home creation programme. Again, it would be good to recall what they did to the national consultation on family protection. It is enough to recall the action of our fellow Member Ildikó Bangóné Borbély when he spectacularly ripped up the national consultation that millions of our countrymen have sent back and considered it important for him to participate in this consultation. I would like to quote here the sentence of Tamás Bauer of Gyurcsány, who said that they see Hungary's future in migrants and not in support of Hungarian families. So this is part of the context that is typical of the opposition side here. On the opposition positions expressed in the specific debate: Jobbik also had two key speakers, one of the key speakers praised the concrete bill, although he also said that it was not realistic and suggested a much wider circle. Once again, we must say that we attach the family protection action plan to work, we build a work-based society, so all support is based on work, employment. The other speaker called the measure the wrong direction, he said that there would be no broad social impact. I suggest that Jobbik decide which is the real direction, although after the defeat the day before yesterday, I think it's very difficult to determine exactly what your position is. Several people referred to it here, as well as Mrs Secretary of State, Dóra Dúró, our fellow Member, classified the circumstantial and hard-to-follow approach of the MSZP lead speaker, and I couldn't quite follow what he was talking about either. He said things like, for example, it's made up for rich people, and I didn't see anything in the proposal that would link the aid to income. So I suggest that our fellow Member of the Socialist Group once again read this bill and talk about what is written there, not what is not in the bill. DK's lead speaker sets the support of families as a statistical game. Somehow I always feel that if you find a wrong number, you'll be very happy to announce it and try to lie the truth. They never talk about the measures, the numbers that show the right direction, and they are the dominant majority. They choose a dimension where there may be a negative process, it will be enlarged and campaigned with. Let's be small! They keep making the impression that everything here is wrong, that everything is going in the wrong direction. Thank God, most Hungarians don't think so. [[12.20]] They also said we wouldn't fulfill what we promised. I think the government introduced seven points of the family protection action plan with a record speed. The great success of the Hungarian administration is the performance that it has demonstrated in this respect. What the Prime Minister has promised is already working, and some measures will be put in place in the near future. It is also understandable that you have not voted in favour of these measures before, while your fellow Members in the European Union have voted in favour of all migrant support measures, but you have voted nothing here to protect Hungarian families. This is a very clear indication of DK's position and strategy on the issue. I thank the LMP representative, lead speaker, for his positive opinion. In principle, it highlighted the positive dimension, although, as appropriate, it drew attention to some aspects. He said births are being pushed out, and it's a dangerous phenomenon. For example, baby shower credit or other measures are about women having children sooner, just so that they don't push out their births. That's a measure we're talking about. The whole package needs to be looked at as a whole. This in itself does not solve the entire Hungarian population problem, but it is an important element of the entire family protection action plan, the bill package that improves the situation of Hungarian families and supports children's commitment. I especially thank Dóra Dúró for his very positive speech. However, as far as emigration is concerned, I find it encouraging that more people are coming home than they are leaving. And perhaps it is worth drawing attention here to the importance of this family protection action plan and package for homecoming. After all, if we put together the cost of housing in Western Europe, the cost of the rent, the cost of education for children, the cost of health care, this is free thanks to the steps of the government, or there are serious subsidies, then this can be attractive for young families. After all, whether they use the CSOK or use the baby shower credit, whether they use free textbook care, free health care, and if we consider wage increases, it is a very serious opportunity for a family to come home to Hungary. After all, adding up these costs is better than taking a job in Western Europe. I would ask everyone, including my fellow opposition Members, not to give up hope to support the concrete bill. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-28-60	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató in two minutes.
u2019-05-28-61	Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Sadness for the poor demographics! I'm sure we're not happy about this. We just want them to face the facts. The fact that ten thousand fewer children are born today than ten years ago is a fact. I just checked the KSH database. Compared to this, Secretary of State, you can draw imaginary lines with two points selected for imaginary curves, and from this you can show the 77 thousand, Madam Secretary of State the 88 thousand, if there is still a Secretary of State here today, then there will be 95 thousand, but the reality is that the real birth rate is decreasing. All we ask of you is that you face this. Don't try to design a family propaganda based on the winning reports and the proganda of success you painted, because you're walking like you used to be in the former anecdote in the Central Committee. So let's avoid believing your own propaganda and trying to design a family support system. The situation is indeed serious, it really requires very serious efforts, so we are asking you to bring to Parliament the proposals that we have not only made, because almost all opposition parties have made proposals over the last year on how to change this situation. If you really want to help families, don't push your own success agenda, but let us have the opposition initiatives that might actually be able to help. Let us also discuss, once in a while, not the past, but the near future, and discuss what is best for Hungarian families. That's all we ask of you. I'm sorry you're not willing to do that today.
u2019-05-28-62	Thank you, Congressman. We're going back to normal comments. I give the floor to Congresswoman Anett.
u2019-05-28-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, It is very important to debate the Grandparent child, because it is in our common interest that the high degree of flexibility that young families expect from the current century and the accelerated world in which we live requires a great deal of help. It is very important to talk about how grandparents can be involved in this humble work that parents do for their children, and it is very important that this government has recognised this problem. However, we cannot go without saying what my fellow Member has already said, that basically this package does not focus on a lot of things, such as discrimination against the labour market between women and, in particular, mothers, and does not focus on the difficulty of reintegration into the labour market. This is extremely important. By the way, Grandparents would be able to handle this if it weren't so narrow for those who could use it. That is what my opposition fellow Members have been talking about. But I would also like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to what I, frankly, thought was at first a careless mistake in this proposal, but then I realized that you are very proud that only grandparents who are still active participants in the labour market and grandparents who do not go to daycare are those children. In fact, I can assume with the greatest goodwill that in the eyes of the government, those grandparents who are still active in the labour market will be a substitute for nursery care, thus falling away from a significant income, while at the same time removing burdens from the shoulders of the state, since these children no longer need to be included in nursery care. By doing so, these grandparents correct the still insufficient crèches. So I have a proposal on behalf of the Hungarian Liberal Party that is forward-looking, because I do not wish to speak solely about what I think is wrong in this package of proposals. I think it's good to talk about how parents and grandparents can share the work. I think it is good that we are finally going to start organising the family division of labour in some way, because, by the way, the negative differences in the labour market that are mainly affected by young mothers result from the fact that we have not focused so far on where the role of fathers is determined in raising children. We did not focus on how women could reconcile family planning, baby waiting, and later on their motherhood with their participation in the labour market. They thought, at least, that this was an individual social problem. No! It is a social organizational obligation to pay attention to mothers who need a legislative and institutional framework in order not to dissuade their dignity and to deny them their rights in the event of having children. So, in my reading at least, the Grandparents are talking about how grandparents can in this way correct the exclusion from the labour market, the loss or the subsequent break in career paths. However, my question to the Secretary of State, which, at the moment, is, in my view, a disability of this package, is to suggest that he does not think that grandparents, who are otherwise in good health, but who are retired, too, should they wish to do so and can carry out the task, why should they not go to school? My second question is: if the government looks out of the still active but retired grandparents that they are able to perform the task and need to be given the opportunity, do you not think that it is the government's specific task to look for ways to provide adequate childcare fees for grandparents who have retired? I'm asking these questions because there's a good solution to them. There is a solution that if we try to determine the amount of the child at family level, understand that we look at it and face the fact that childbearing requires extra income, because the family budget will jump, the cost side will jump, so the revenue side must be helped in some way. Then why don't you look at the size of the best-seeking person you're entitled to? Why don't you give this to the retired grandparent who would otherwise take care of childcare from moms and dads while they're working? This is a very important amending proposal, which is constructive and essentially does not challenge the approach in which grandparents should be involved and should be specifically assisted in family planning. However, he would ask this government to admit that it is an extraordinary burden on families that in many cases parents are forced to work in several places, often unable to find cradle seats. And if, for you, Grandparents and Grandpas who are still active are all that means to you, I have to say that you do not understand well what this job is. [[12.30]] I'm asking you to find a good way to expand the number of grandparents, the number of potential social groups. Find a solution to help pensioners become grandparents and find a solution to really help young families meet the need for flexibility created by the current challenges. From an economic growth of nearly five percent, individual freedom and human dignity must be achieved in this country, not just for those who can produce themselves today to live or organise their families the way they imagined, but also for those who currently suffer very serious legal disadvantages in the labour market, and they are typically young mothers. I would ask you to pay attention to this when this legislative amendment package is offered for one adoption at a time, because with these disabilities it is not acceptable at the moment. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]]
u2019-05-28-64	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Mary Kállai on behalf of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-05-28-65	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I think we all agree that today's society, our vision of the future, is a very serious driver of what opportunity we provide for families, how we can strengthen families, how we can link work and prosperity to having children. The Government of Hungary gave the right answer to this precisely, which is, in fact, the family protection action plan. When he decided to do so, he sought the right answer to these very basic principles. He was looking for this, as we have heard several times today, because the family protection action plan was preceded by the national consultation and was prepared with its results in mind. We also know and everyone knows very well that it is not a closed process, because what has not even started will start and will obviously be followed by monitoring what is needed on the one hand and, on the other hand, obviously the intention that, I think, and it is good to say that today Hungary is using the most financial resources to support families, i.e. HUF 2000 billion and we have heard from the Secretary of State that there will be more proposals in the preparation of the next budget, 4.8 percent of GDP; this shows a very serious, responsible thinking in every way. One of the steps of the family protection plan is the debate of today's bill, the Grandparent's Gyed, which will enter into force in January 2020. The bill on this is waiting for us all to accept, for everyone to have the opportunity, for the entire spectrum of the opposition, and it would be time to finally take sides with the families, because many have now listed facts that have remained a legacy for the civilian government from the time of the previous opposition governments; whether the family tax reduction or the abolition of the three-year child or the abolition of the home-building programme, to highlight only a few. Today, we have heard explanations that, I think, have shown us how a very good initiative can be, and I am not saying that you can see the backhand, but how you can't, but I think we should return to positive values. Grandparent child will be a great opportunity to bring families back together, bring generations closer to each other's lives, build up the fate of each family. We can be sure that children who will absorb and live the experience of virtually several generations in this way will mean more to them than just having children. This is, for all of us, a clear pillar of Hungary's fundamental vision. I believe that there are fundamentals such as having children, that a child is a great value, and that when a child is born, it has the right to live safely, to live in a family, and to care, to healthy development that is incorporated into its personality. This is precisely a very serious opportunity for a family package, which creates the opportunity for families with a family decision to do so, and thus gives the child the opportunity to learn social schemes that can be learned in a whole family. Of course, those who surround the child, ideally mother, father, brother, grandparents, from them we learn to give love, accept, socialize in that family milieu and, of course, determine our whole lives. They live with a good number among us, thank God, good parents, good enough parents, a lot of times a challenge for all parents, whether I am a good enough parent, I think that it is good enough to be a good enough parent, but at the same time it must be possible through legislation for a parent who is active in the labour market to have access to grandparents' children so that he can help his family if this is the result of a family decision from zero to two or three years of age in the case of twins that it does not actually fall out of the labour market. Of course, there will be parents who won't go back to work. I'm sure there will be parents who choose nursery, institutional education. When we are discussing this bill, it is very important to pay attention to the main aspect that we are seeking to expand the scope of care; I stress that we are giving families the opportunity, the opportunity for the grandparents who are still working actively to take care of the granddaughter during the day, while the parent can go back to work. It offers an opportunity for a family life situation where the best family decision is to keep the parent working and the grandmother's job and to hear from the secretary of state, in the autumn, further legislative changes will be regulated in this respect. It is not true that there is no demand for this. I'm sure the numbers and facts will show this. Our lead speaker has already referred to the survey carried out by the Kopp Mária Institute, and I now only show the current number, not the trend that in 2016 we can say that 67.7 percent of men and about 70 percent of women have said yes to grandkids in any way and are really actively involved in the supervision of grandchildren. The bill submitted by the Ministry of Human Resources allows working parents to hand over the rights of the child to one of the grandparents. There will be grandpas, grandmothers who love their vocations, but they will leave them for this time. There will be those who do not do this, but in any case you also need to know that different families operate with different motivations with different options. And here I would very, very much like to underline the possibility of solving a life situation on the one hand. On the other hand, it is very important that there will be people who are very happy to take advantage of this opportunity, because they are at such a stage of their lives that they are working, but in any case the granddaughter will override the need for work. It is very important that older people, people living in active life, physically, spiritually and spiritually, are a very important resource for society, family and national economy. I am convinced that, in addition to a healthy life, this safe family has a very, very important role to play. I am sure that this will determine how who will say yes to this opportunity. Practically it is very important to see that the use of the grandparents' child can not be done solely at the cost of sacrifice, but at the exact cost of the opportunity, because it is very important that it is a matter of personal choice, of personal responsibility. The whole family protection package doesn't put anyone on the line, because I think that we have neither the right nor the opportunity to do so, that no one can be forced to have a child. It is very important here that the emphasis is not on the, but on the, it is on the, it is possible, that you can live with it, because these legislations create the condition that anyone who has not yet said yes to the desired child can do so and their family can grow. So let us give those who would like to take on more children in addition to work, they are happy to use the help of an active grandparents to raise them, in this case, and the conditions can be met. Of course, it is also very important that all of this is tied to work. Of course, another very important component is personal responsibility. The fact that a person can obtain entitlement to the child as insured has always been an important criterion in the case of the grandparents' child, since only the grandparents who had insurance rights for 365 days prior to the birth of the child can be entitled to it. [[12.40]] And if we know exactly the other conditions, I will not read them all, I will highlight a few, it is practically very important that both parents of the child, in the case of a single parent, do a job of earning, of course, in the parent's household, and that both parents of the child agree to use the prize in writing. It is important to point out that institutional accommodation for the day-care of the child should not be available in this case, so there should be no crèches. Also, it is very important that the employment of the grandparents in the child is as continuous as if the mother were. The question arises as to whether it is a service period for pension rights. Of course it is. But I would like to add in any way that I am convinced that those who will choose this option are at least as sure to do so from an internal motivation. And I cannot stress enough that it is definitely a family decision, because it also creates a bond between generations that are sometimes far from each other, the value of which is priceless. Of course, who and how many people will choose to replace their active employment with care for their grandchildren will not be able to see them for that long in practice. I'm sure some people have spent a lot of time with their granddaughter out of love, but it's definitely a completely different way of being together. I am sure that this is an opportunity for families that they will definitely take advantage of. This measure is a very important element of the effort to strengthen a family-friendly approach, in which we have a shared responsibility, whether to look at jobs or to look at the public administration in the issue of freedoms, how to get an extra five days of freedom in the family where a granddaughter is born; and I can continue to see the elements that form a complex whole, and I am sure that in Hungary the family-friendly approach, the cooperation of generations, and the attachment can be strengthened, because these issues are extremely important in providing, assisting and supporting material conditions, as without them, the family does not work. The Fidesz Group supports the bill submitted by the government. I would ask everyone, including Parliament's pro-government and opposition fractions, to stand with the families and to support this opportunity together. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-28-66	Thank you, Congresswoman. I will now give the floor to Congresswoman Anett Bősz in two minutes.
u2019-05-28-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I asked to speak again because I would like to react briefly to my colleague, Mrs Kállai. I do not dispute that there are grandparents active in the labour market who are happy to take advantage of this opportunity. I drew attention to the fact that this has a very serious financial impact, and I don't think it's necessary to explain it, not only when you're a baby, but later, in kindergarten, kindergarten, which, when combined with a quasi-income loss, puts a lot of pressure on families. That is why I would ask you to consider the proposal in which retired grandparents can make use of it. I put forward a proposal on how to achieve this: to determine the extent of the lawn at family level and to make sure that families come out of this as financially as possible. And I would also like to note at this short time that, of course, I wish not only to make a financial issue out of family planning, but I also take it from your words that you want to focus on what is most important is that these families can stay together and be flexible in such a way that everyone can feel the best in it. At the moment, due to the discrimination of mothers on the labour market and the loss of income in the family's pocket, a young family encounters a lot of difficulties. That's what I called attention to. I don't dispute the principle of performance myself. So it's a good thing that they're connecting certain public services to an insurance relationship, and I think it's right, but at the same time, who's retired, has 40 years of insurance behind his back, so in that sense, he's got plenty of service behind him, so now he can get something from the community, if the government wants it. Thank you.
u2019-05-28-68	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to MEP László Böröcz in two minutes.
u2019-05-28-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I am sorry that Mr Arato has left the Chamber because I wanted to answer to him in principle. On the one hand, I just want to remind you that he said that we talk a lot, but we do little. We ask people what they want us to do to support families. That is why there was a national consultation, we asked for people's opinions on this, we listened to them, and we acted on it. Compared to this, DK's representatives and their leader, I think they were quite openly saying that they were running pretend government, they were lying in the morning, noon and evening, and they were doing nothing but pretending to govern. You didn't ask people's opinions, you didn't deal with people's problems, and what they did would have been better if they hadn't, because they destroyed families, put millions of people in a situation where they were hopeless. I am referring to the foreign exchange legitimists, the families that had already been destroyed before the global economic crisis, because in Hungary an economic collapse started a year before the global economic crisis. You have destroyed millions of Hungarian citizens, families and, compared to this, you are trying to educate the government that has produced economic results and has produced a population policy that has led to the highest birth rate in Hungary since 1996. If we are going into numbers here, and you are constantly referring to how much fewer children were born today than in 2008-2009: they deliberately distort reality, because obviously, as has been said several times, this is because the number of women of childbearing age has decreased significantly... [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: I told you this!]] That is true; on the other hand, it is because you have made families impossible as a result of the economic crisis, so obviously everyone has moved their children. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-28-70	Thank you, Congressman. I will give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy in two minutes.
u2019-05-28-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I think we need to get this story straightened out. I will say this many times, and I see that the voters are starting to confirm this to the Democratic Coalition: the social policy of the Gyurcsány government and its eight years, the 2002-2010 government, was about to double by 2010. [[Grumble in the ranks of Fidesz. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Poverty has doubled!]] It's a fact, Mr. Rethvári, a fact! 200 million and 560 million are two different numbers. [[Happy István: Are you talking about the salary of Ferenc Gyurcsány?]] That was 2002 and it was 2010. We must also publish, then, once again, you talk about birth rates all the time, I beg you, where did the birth rate cry up in the hospital, Mr. Böröcz, when did the birth rate cry up? You're talking about 1.4 and 2.2 and 1.8 and 0.3, and we're talking about 90,000 children in 2009. At your time, Hungarian children will not be born. Your family policy has failed specifically. He is failing because there is not enough kindergarten space; because they are not helping to prevent environmental disasters; because schools have been destroyed; because there is no health care; there is no child born because the baby's emergency room is closed at the Honvéd Hospital. Well, the parent who wants to have a child and, let's just say, he hesitates to see if it's worth it or if it's free, just read the daily news about what's going on in Hungarian health care. There are no pediatricians in this country. [[Happy Stephen intervenes.]] Don't yell at him, fellow Fidesz, press the button and talk to him. I would like to indicate that GPs and pediatricians have disappeared in Hungary, there are 50 kilometers of districts in Hungary, where there are no more pediatricians. This is the environment where you talk about fantastic family politics. Your family policy has failed specifically, that's the truth. [[Happy Stephen: Failed? Ferenc Gyurcsány's husband failed!]]
u2019-05-28-72	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2019-05-28-73	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I would like to answer Congressman Gréczy. I wouldn't answer, only after you polished it, polished your own period here, I wouldn't say two sentences to you, but I would quote Zsuzsa Ferge for the evaluation of your period. [[12.50]] I wouldn't comment on it, just that what you said about the golden age of Gyurcsány, one of their chief ideologists, their chief social researcher, said. He said that in 2008 Hungary was the only state that suffered a crisis, which didn't do anything at all, didn't cross a single line of matches, so that something would happen to the obvious losers of the crisis. There's never been a country like this before. As a result, we had a particularly high risk for the poor. Your sociologist for your period, which you praised, said so much. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-28-74	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I now give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpát in two minutes.
u2019-05-28-75	Mr President, Dear House, Although it seems to be summer, the Gyurcsány era has started a kind of snowballing with the Orbán era. I would like to point out that the population loss did not start after 2002, we are talking about a process about the same time as me, so in the late 1970s the story could be dated. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Then we're the same age!]] I have to accuse all former governing parties of complicity, because let's just think about the 2002-2010 period when the spirit of foreign currency lending came out of the bottle, and let's just think about the Orbán governments who have not dealt with this problem since 2010. When we look at the common accomplices and the population impact of these, we see extremely serious damage. I understand the visualization of your current political interests, that everyone here is trying to explain the certificate. I would like to be professionally correct: I do not expect a higher birth rate in terms of the base for the number of women of lower parental age, but I do not think it is a fair way to explain the not-so-bright certificate on the part of the government, I do not think it is a straight road. We now need a comprehensive national, consensual package of solutions supported by all parties, not just a narrowed-down grandparents' children, but a rental program against emigration. I would like to remind my fellow Member Nacsa, although there is no one here who has accused us of wrongfully accusing the government of favoring only the more fortunate social groups. I'd like to ask you a specific question, taken from real life, not made up by suits in an office, but a real question. What does my fellow Member Nacsa suggest to the Hungarian youth who collected the share of the budget from state support for housing savings for CSOK? This form of support has been taken by this government, which narrows down precisely the scope of its own CSOK needs by force and sacrifices the future of Hungary, while not giving way to these young people. This Hungarian reality, we have to find answers to these, and your snowballing is not about Hungarian reality. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-05-28-76	Thank you, Congressman. Bence Rétvári wishes to answer as State Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-05-28-77	To what you have said: in the first half, your speech started very encouragingly, and it would be very good if we could really have debates that you said in the first half of your speech. And for the second half, I'd just like to say that what you said as a mental construct can't exist, because if someone started saving an apartment and thinks that, say, next year, he's going to buy property from the apartment savings that he left, plus from the CSOK, it works, of course, because the contracts already concluded have continued to run out and continue to run. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: And what does anyone who starts life now do?]] So no one lost their former savings, no one lost their former form of support. It was only the state's idea of how to better help young people or not so young people buy homes with the same amount of housing support. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: There is nothing in his place!]] And he said that if you put it in the CSOK structure, apparently in the CSOK, this is much more helpful for young people with families, because the CSOK worked much more efficiently than the other form of housing support. This is about spending the public money that we have here, all of us who decide on the budget, in a less efficient or more efficient form for families. Families have lost nothing, but have just won, as there will be more resources for a construction that serves their improved housing more effectively than a previous construction. It is about the fact that the state has so far given the money to the families to improve housing in one way or another, and apparently it has not been effective enough, because the banks or the institutions that paid for it have not added as much benefits and opportunities as would have been justified. Therefore, the state said that it would give the same money to families not in this, but in a different form, which is popular with families, because today we have talked about more than 100 thousand, 102 thousand CSOK applications. Thank you, that's all I wanted to do to correct what I said.
u2019-05-28-78	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I now give the floor to Congressman László Böröcz in two minutes.
u2019-05-28-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I understand that Congressman Gréczy is nostalgic here from 2002-2010. After all, about the wonderful government performance of your wonderful period, I think the Hungarian voters gave you a pretty clear certificate in 2010: in 2010 Fidesz won by two thirds, and you practically disappeared. In 2018 Hungarian voters also gave their opinion on the next eight years [[Zsolt Gréczy: It was cheating... election fraud!]] After the eight years of economic policy, the family policy of those eight years, and the eight-year government, Fidesz also won by two-thirds. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Election fraud!]] That's the difference between you and Fidesz. Of course, we are aware that this is a very serious problem, which is why we have been dealing with it for eight years, and we are looking for opportunities that the budget obviously allows us to encourage young Hungarians and Hungarian families to have as many children as possible. I agree with Daniel Z. Carpathian that we must seek consensus on this. Indeed, as Minister of State has said, we are looking for solutions that are effective and encourage childbearing in Hungary. I think the Fidesz administration is open to any proposal that otherwise affects this direction. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-28-80	I will give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy in two minutes. [[Zsolt Gréczy: I don't want a word.]] He doesn't want to comment, all right. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Best comments so far!]] Then we'll go back to the normal time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Robert Balázs Simon in a normal time frame.
u2019-05-28-81	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Family and population policy is a priority nation strategy issue, a joint issue that determines our future in Hungary and the world in the long term. Our future is our main treasure, our children, and therefore our most important task is to support and protect childbearing and raising. We in Fidesz-KDNP have been working over the last few years to strengthen families, to give parents and future parents as much support as possible in order to have children and raise them. As a result, families have received increasing support in recent years. It is important for us to make Hungary a country where mothers and families with children receive all the support they can to be responsible for taking on and raising children and helping young people to have as many children as they want, and when they want to. We will continue the family-friendly governance that we have started, we will preserve the family support that we have already had, and we will expand the opportunities. Four elements of the seven-point family protection action plan presented in February this year will enter into force on 1 July: extending the preferential loan for family home creation to used properties, releasing part of the real estate-backed mortgage at the birth of children, supporting the car purchase of large family members and the 10 million HUF baby shower support. The bill before us now contains the point of the family protection action plan which introduces the child care fee for the grandparents from 1 January 2020. Unfortunately, the Socialists and DKs have not supported measures to help families in recent years, including the introduction of the family tax system, the further increase in family tax relief with two children, the extra child, the introduction of the three-year children and the family home-building programme, the national consultation on family protection has also been attacked, and even some Members have gone so far as to openly tear up the consultation sheet. [[13.00]] However, for us Fidesz-KDNP representatives, the child is the first. We are not imagining the future of Hungary with immigrants, but with the support of Hungarian children and families with children, our priority is to help mothers and future mothers more strongly than ever. They can count on us in every life situation when they are about to have children, when they are pregnant, when they have their first, second, or third child, when they decide to stay at home with the child when they want to learn or work alongside raising children, when they start to create homes, when they send their children to nursery, kindergarten, school, or when, after many decades of work and raising children, they decide to retire and help raise grandchildren. The Kopp Mária Institute for Population and Families in short: The surveys carried out by KINCS and the Institute for Population Research show that grandmothers and grandfathers over 55 are involved in nearly the same proportion in the care and supervision of their grandchildren. The bill submitted by the government provides for the possibility for a non-retired grandparents who participate in the care of their grandson, helping working parents, to become entitled to the child until the child is two years old. The right to a child may be transferred to a grandparent if both parents and the parent are working in the case of a single parent. The sum of the gyed is determined on the basis of the grandparent's salary. The proposal will help the parent to return to the labour market as soon as possible by creating the possibility for the grandparents to use the child as well, in addition to providing a close family member for the child. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that, by introducing the Grandparent child, it will also help to strengthen the relationship between the grandparent and the granddaughter, not only at close range, but also at daily level, to experience what it is like to be with grandparents, grandmothers, or grandfathers, which can be a lifelong journey for the small child. Finally, I would also ask my fellow opposition Members to support the bill before us, and finally show that they are in favour of Hungarian families. We will do this for Fidesz-KDNP. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-05-28-82	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Sándor Kovács.
u2019-05-28-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I think that we cannot talk enough about family policy in a social environment in which European society now lives, where a social group of mathematicians and economists have been planning for the last 20 years to replace the number of small children born in Europe by immigration. One of the representatives of the parliamentary party that has just slightly increased the number of its representatives in the European Union elections said that the task of replacing unborn children with immigrants is also in Hungary. The small number of births, as my fellow Member Böröcz and my fellow Member Mr Z. Carpathian said, are due to a decrease in the number of women of childbearing potential, which is a problem, but it is not the solution to illegally importing immigrants from abroad to try to correct this. I was the mayor of a small settlement when schools were closed by a government of a man named Gyurcsány, and we sent a letter to a secretary of state named Gergely Arató, responsible for education policy, to help us hold a school in the social policy of small settlements. We've had such an answer. [[The intervention of Zsolt Gréczy.]] they do not care about maintaining a rural way of life. You don't have to yell at me, that's what you just told my fellow Member. You're welcome to sit down, Mr. Gréczy, because people know what you've done. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Sure!]] And they're gonna issue a certificate, and they're gonna issue a certificate for you a lot of times. Take it easy. [[Zsolt Gréczy: It's coming along, it's coming along!]] The foundation of this social policy is the family, which you also ignore. All you see in the family is what kind of chess, what mathematical equations you can draw from it. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] It is the Fidesz government that has started to take real family policy measures to make this nation, this country, a development, and the kind of population policy that is really struggling with this problem, to move in some direction, and to continue living in rural areas where there is a very large population shortage. We can see that. There's a connection to the village program to try to keep people in the social settings where they have their roots. It doesn't mean anything to you, I know, because we have once argued that we, the national side, have a kind of sacred emotional role in society, not only mathematics, that I check, a man is a hundred forints budget line. It's an emotional community for us. We are interested in building this community through families, where we would like to include active-age grandparents who would like to help children and these parents in their employment policies, and I think they should play a role, in addition to giving the granddaughter an institutional background, but also experiences that are irreplaceable. So summa summarum, I think that the number of women of childbearing potential falling compared to the Ratko era should not be counted on us. You say they're waking up. I got a phone call last night, we're analyzing the election as constituency president, and a better-looking president called my colleagues to start setting up the DK group, so let's just be calm, move back, which is to be emigrated. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Explain this to me.]] And find their place by those who need to find their place. Calm down, Mr Gréczy, you will never be on the government in your stinking life until you have the feeling that social policy, family policy, needs. I ask you, if there is a small spine, there is a small will to do, then support this family policy measure. Thank you very much. [[Zsolt Gréczy: This nonsense will be very bad! A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-05-28-84	Welcome. I'm glad to find Parliament in such a good mood [[Defiance. Dr. Bence Rétvári: From the President!]] This is how I can begin today's presidency, which will continue with the speech of Mr Dániel Z. Kárpat, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2019-05-28-85	Mr President, Dear House, Although I deeply agree with some of the words of the pro-government Member before me, with another part not, I would like to encourage you to do one thing. They didn't ask for it, but I feel like I have to do it because I have a conscience. The real certificate of power, of people, of representatives, is always the way they behave against those who, if any, have performed weaker than they are at the moment, after such a victory. Your insufferable, big vest behavior will issue this certificate. I sincerely trust that they can change this and grow up to the percentage that they undoubtedly achieved in the election. I'd like to turn to Mr. Secretary, because there's a loose end between us. I haven't had the opportunity to speak in the last few minutes since I was able to respond to the question concerning young Hungarians. I'd like to clear that up. When I blame you for the lack of state support for housing savings, and I ask you to put an end to this, why am I doing this? You can say that instead of one form of family support or home-building support, budget resources are transferred to another, but the social base to be achieved and available is the huge difference between the two forms. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Only wider!]] Secretary of State, it is not included in the provisions on the CSOK, but how much do you think two young Hungarians together have to earn to use the support of the CSOK, say, for a new property? Hit him on the stomach and give me a tip. But we can help you with that, by the way. With a revenue of between 250 and 300 thousand HUF, the two earners have to have it together so that the bank does not fold them with such excuses. I admit that this is not part of the legislation you put on the table. I admit that this has not been codified by the government, but it is still in reality that tens of thousands of young Hungarians looking for the weakest will be left out of savings, because this has ceased, this has had state legs so far, but on the other hand they do not earn enough to join the CSOK system or the expanded CSOK system. Secretary of State, another example of life. About 80 percent of the condominiums have been renovated, replaced, and these investments will be due in the next 4-5 years by an increasing mass, and there is no alternative. There is no alternative source to manage them. These are real problems, Mr. Secretary. It can't be arranged by transferring me from one budget line to another. I feel that this is a much deeper problem, and I feel that it is worth talking about, regardless of how we see everyday life politically. This is a deeply professional question, it is about Hungarian people. This responsibility, please feel it. I would like to ask three specific questions, which are clearly linked to the issue of the Grandparent child and, more broadly, the family protection package. In addition to supporting all seven of the originals, Jobbik placed 12 points on the table, placed seven modifications, and tried to enrich them with five more ideas of its own. [[13.10]] But there are three specific questions that have been raised today. I would not like to classify the answer of the Secretary of State who replied before the agenda, either professionally or humanly. It wasn't about the subject. Let's just leave it at that. But I agree with you on family tax incentives, this is a good direction, families must be supported. I also agree that there have been eight years in Hungary that have come up with an economic carpet bombing against the Hungarian families. With a demographic outlook, it is worth looking back for several decades: the Bokros package was one of the most serious of these, so we could go back to the older ages and the first Fidesz government, where there were positive signs, but there were missed opportunities. Even then, a government-based housing program did not start, nor did it start now. And that's what the young people I mentioned need. But: with regard to family tax incentives, the annual steady, slow increase in two children, which would be able to follow inflation at least, has stopped this year. With regard to the legislation in force, we can say that the amount for this year will be the same next year, and then the same for two children, while the price of the consumer basket on basic foods shows an amazing increase, multiple times the price of core inflation. The question is therefore, Mr State Secretary, that in the case of family tax incentives for two children, they are willing to at least make this system a follow-up to inflation. I think that the points of the family protection package should only be dealt with in one large unit, because one point affects the other, and by reaching different social segments, let's say, a larger family can be affected at different points, where appropriate by multiplying each other's effects. I would also like to say that we have a second concrete question, and I would also like you to answer that. As regards the purchase of a family car, why are large family members so attached to a new passenger car? So why can't we come to a consensus that, in the case of the purchase of a vehicle that meets certain minimum technical parameters, which is safe, not environmentally polluting, yet used, we could benefit large families who couldn't pay the price of the new car, but who would need this support for their daily movements, health care, the transport, education and training of children? I feel that there is plenty of room for action here, opportunity, and budgetary resources, and room for manoeuvre. We have also had many debates on mortgage-based families. I don't want to reopen this, but I think you know that, as well as I do, it's a solution to forinting so-called foreign exchange loans at the rate of admission. But if this is not what we are talking about in the package, but about the mortgage relief that I call cosmetic, but it does not matter whether the family achieves one or three or four million easier, then why can it not be extended to those who have submitted similar claims between January 2018 and June 2019, in an even less favourable system, so for them this benefit cannot prevail in its entirety? I feel that if we intervened on these three points, we would not have to spend tens of billions of budget resources, but we would be able to offer a measurable discount to tens of thousands of families. Therefore, since the positive effects can only be imagined in a package, my request is that they also respond to them in substance, because if we take seriously that we want to support the Hungarian future, then we really need to improve not only on statistical numbers and not on budget lines, but also on a sense of life and a vision for young Hungarians, a vision that they do not want to migrate from this country, imagine their welfare here. However, it is important to be able to act in all social segments, not only from the upper middle class to the upper. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-05-28-86	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I find that no, no further comments have been made. The general debate is closed. I'm going to ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to reflect as a rapporteur. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary of State of Rétvár has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-05-28-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President, and thank you very much for all your contributions, in particular those of a supportive nature, and, above all, those which were also on the subject. I think that, towards the end, Mr Sándor Kovács said a fundamental sentence, which is what all reasonable people think, although we have not always felt quite so from opposition speeches, that it is obviously an emotional question of who is having a child and who is helping to raise the child, and this is how it should be done, not in a technocratic way that has emerged from one or another opposition speech. The state has one task. This is obviously an emotional issue in the family, not for the state; the state must expand the choice for families, where the mother, father or grandparents want to stay at home with the child, and we must ensure that where this emotional decision is made to have children, or one more, and one more, and one more, the state is not an obstacle, but a helper, and the state is trying to compensate for the financial and timing problems that life brings, or our administrative system, the order of life. So, in family-type taxation, not to distract the income that family members spend on raising a child and not on themselves, and here, on the custody, care and education of the child, if they want to share between generations, then give them the opportunity to do so. That it did make sense over the past period to devote the largest expansion of budgetary resources to families is not only an emotional issue, but it is already reflected in the trends in which I would like to say, in closing the debate here, that they did appear in the spirit of childbearing, and not only that they have appeared, but also that trends can be well contrasted with each other, the consequences of the Hungarian, V4 and European anti-migration measures. After all, the childishness and fertility ratio that all the groups talked about, to which everyone had contributed, has decreased by 1.9 percent in the European Union since 2010. By contrast, in the V4 countries, it increased by 11,3%. And in Hungary, the desire to have children increased by a far more than 23.2 percent. So governments have a responsibility. It must be recognized that they can influence the population processes, in addition to the fact that this is essentially the mother and father's personal decision, but they can also be influenced by the attitude and support system. It is apparent that where European families have been abandoned, where resources are spent on migration, there is also a decline in childbearing; where families have not been given up, where there are subsidies, which have symbolic power and already have financial power, and where there is an increase in fertility rates at V4 of 11,3% and in Hungary of 23.2 percent, children's desire has increased. While no one in the 28 Member States of the European Union was behind us in 2010, we are now ahead of dozens of countries, ahead of Malta, Spain, Italy, Cyprus, Greece, Portugal, Luxembourg, Croatia, Poland, Finland, Austria and Slovakia. During the period that our opposition colleagues, especially DK, considered to be the best, there was no one behind us. Now, after 8-9 years of Fidesz-KDNP governance, these countries are fortunately behind us. It's not that they're behind us, it's that we have better results than these dozens of countries. There's another career trip and questions like that. We give you freedom of choice; each of us divides your career as you think one makes one's own personal decision, but we don't want to stand in the way of a person who wants to have a child, whether by procedure or by tax or by other rules. On the opposition side, I don't think people are thinking about forms of support. Because my fellow Member Gréczy may be very proud of the family support system of the Gyurcsány government, but if we went out on the street and asked people to say positives from the Gyurcsány period for the benefit of families, and to say new measures, new discounts, positives from the period of the Orbán government, I think not many people would remember any positives from the Gyurcsány government, and not only because it was a few years ago, but also because it was simply neither the CSOK nor the introduction of different types of family taxation, and the rest could be classified as how much or the baby shower support was not invented in that period, not in that period. They'd remember how they took away home support, how they took away tax breaks, how they narrowed down the range of regular child protection benefits, that's what everyone remembers. From your period people remember one thing, but it is not necessarily growth and positive memory, but austerity, as the Medgyessy Cabinet was taken away from families on a completely ideological basis for the first time in 2002-2004, and then, as economic indicators deteriorated, it followed austerity in the area of families for savings reasons. You have also done this because you would not rely so much on people and families in legitimacy, and it is important for you that the IMF experts and others who have been called here to Hungary are satisfied. Because you are not looking for your own legitimacy in the satisfaction of the people, but you can give many examples to some external organisation, IMF, Brussels. [[Zsolt Gréczy: To Moscow!]] I don't want to go backwards, that's what's important to you. Because then they think they're in favor of these experts, this elite, these circles, and then they're gonna call the RTL Club and other foreign-owned media, and they're gonna say, "Well, now, DK's got to be pushed, because they're good, because they're gonna squeeze you on Hungarian families. That's the logic of your power. That's why they cashed in all the recipes for austerity, which is why they didn't dare stand up for the Hungarian families. And this is also reflected in one of your very close parties today, in the spectacular gesture of the MSZP, when Ildikó Bangóné Borbély is tearing up the national consultation sheets here in Parliament, because it is not the opinion of the people that matters, but what they say about us in Brussels and in the centre of the IMF and the World Bank, and what they intend to follow. [[13.20]] There has been a long debate about how many Hungarians work abroad on migration. That's why I collected the numbers and the data so everyone could see it. Here it is not only a positive change from one year to the next, that last year the migration salvo has turned positive for those born in Hungary, but here we have to see a process that has been going on since 2010. The latest positive news is that 20,000 Hungarians were born at home; if you look at the saldoes of the previous years, 18 500 people went abroad and 20 thousand of those who had left the country before. But more people actually came home, because children born abroad still have to be counted on this 20,000. So the number of returnees is well over 20,000, with 18,500 going abroad. So we can count on thousands of positive saldos, and the most conservative calculation is that two thousand more people came home last year than the ones they left. As I say, this is part of a trend, not a one-year, one-off figure, because our first government cycle between 2010 and 14 was to stop this growing trend. And it stopped by 2014-15, so from 2015, in 2016, the number of people going abroad began to decrease. It was one of the important bases. On the other hand, from 2015 onwards, the number of people who came home increased. These two positive trends have slowed the growth rate of emigration at first, then stopped, and then emigration from Hungary decreased, and, in addition, the return to Hungary continued to increase, which led to the turnaround in 2018, with a fifth decrease in the number of migrants travelling abroad. And if you look at the returnees, in 2010, 1,600 returned home, and now 18 150. That is quite an increase, though, my fellow Members; while the other trend has been reversed, the number of returnees has been increased from 1600 to 18 150. By the way, 66 percent of migrants went out to work and 20 percent went out to study. And today in Hungary, before my fellow Member Z. Carpathian leaves, there are 242 thousand people who have spent at least a year abroad, most of all working. So they live here among us. What you are trying to suggest by your opposition fellow Members is that the one who left once left Hungary with the intention of leaving forever, so it is not real. Nearly a quarter of a million people abroad have gained experience and returned home with it, and they may be able to do better at home, perhaps even with higher salaries, because their language skills are better, and their professional skills are better. A quarter of a million people are here, and now they are increasing Hungary's overall product, and they are increasing Hungary's performance, and they did not leave at all to prevent them from returning. By the way, the overwhelming majority of those who are out there have also gone out with the intention of returning. And my fellow Member, Mr Kárpát, spoke about how Hungarians across the border count on this. The opposite, as you say, because for Hungarians across the border, if a Hungarian from Transylvania goes to work in Bavaria, it appears in these statistics, or, say, as a Transylvanian Hungarian, to go to Spain to get a job, it appears that if he went from Hungary to Spain or to Bavaria to take a job. So the outgoings, from the Highlands, Transylvania, from other neighbouring countries to Germany, Spain, Italy, count in this number of emigrants. When they go back to Transylvania or the Highlands, they do not count back to move back, as they do not return to Hungary. The German Statistical Office also, if you look at its statements, if you do not believe the KSH, although I do not think there is a reason for that, the German Statistical Office has also said that since 2013 the number of Hungarians moving to Germany has decreased. So the trend shift was in 13th. As I said, after 13 and 14-15 we also managed to stop the increase in the number of emigrants, to slow down and then to stop them, and then to reverse it in this last cycle, but according to the German statistical office, it was also the break of the annual increase in the number from Hungary to Germany, according to the German statistical office. So since then, this number has not been rising year after year, but is decreasing. Returning to the original bill on the introduction of the Grandparent Childcare Prize, we really hope that if nothing else, everyone will be wiser and learn from the voter's weekend opinion, as Fidesz-KDNP's record victory, higher support for higher participation, has also been supported by our desire to provide safety to families, families and childbearing, as the Hungarian people are basically child lovers. The 13 MEPs who are Fidesz-KDNP and the 15 who I count from the DAHR on the part of Hungarian national thinkers will also be a strong and effective supporter of family policy and families in the European Parliament to build Europe's future on European families and not on immigrants. The opposition representatives could have learned from the national consultation, but they did not, and I have already explained this. One of our tasks here, the representatives of the Hungarian Parliament, the 13 Hungarian and 15 Hungarian MEPs in the European Parliament, is to prevent this dead-end European policy, which is self-exciting and constantly eroding support for families, reducing and increasing support for migration. I would also like to reject in the closing line what the opposition Members said that the CSOK would not be a broad support option. Everyone who has the financial opportunity to take up not only but also raise their children from the actual income of work, at least from the minimal income of work, has the opportunity to open the door to the CSOK, my fellow Members. But, obviously, minimum conditions are also needed for responsible childbearing, and obviously also for the purchase of a property. That's why the CSOK is popular, no matter how social you look at it. Because, fellow Members, who are obviously looking to buy a smaller-scale property under more modest circumstances, for those who want to buy larger, more expensive real estate with a CSOK grant of HUF 10 plus HUF 15 million or a very reduced rate of interest is more helpful than those who want to buy a larger, more expensive property with a large amount of HUF 10 million. For those who live in more modest circumstances, family home-building benefits are relatively and in absolute measure more helpful. This is why we are proud that 102,000 families have already claimed the CSOK, this shows their popularity, that it is good for many people, and that this 102 thousand family has required nearly 300 billion forints. I would also like to respond briefly to the fact that Grandparents don't spoil their average salary if the Grandparent goes under, because the period will not count against their average earnings in the calculations. As a last argument, I would like to say that, encouraging everyone to support this proposal, the institution KONP Mária Institute for Population and Families asked the Hungarian families, immediately after the announcement of the action plan, if they thought it possible to use any of the funds. Three quarters of respondents from the target group said that they would probably use it. So if you support this, you will support a measure that nearly three quarters of the families would like to take. And the support for the Grandparent Childcare Prize was overwhelming, two-thirds. Ladies and gentlemen, Our job is to represent the people, to represent the Hungarian families. Hungarian families clearly want this new form, the Grandparent Childcare Prize, to be established in Hungary. Our job is not to rip people's opinions, but to represent them. That is why I ask you to support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-05-28-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that it is possible to submit the amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m. [[13.30]] Dear Parliament, The draft law on the publication of the Council of Europe's revised film co-production agreement and the joint general debate on the draft law on the publication of the European film co-production agreement until its closure. Government referrals T/6188. and T/5235. available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2019-05-28-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Allow me to explain in a few sentences the T/5235 before the Plenipotentiary of the Honourable Parliament on the publication of the Council of Europe's European Film Co-production Convention. Proposal T/6188 on the publication of the Council of Europe's revised Movie Co-production Convention. and the main content of these proposals. The first bill is the legal publication of the European Convention on Film Coproduction No 147 of the Council of Europe, which I will later refer to as the basic convention. The Basic Convention was opened for signature in Strasbourg on 2 October 1992 and entered into force on 1 April 1994. In Hungary, 7/1998 on the announcement of the European Film Co-production Convention established by the Council of Europe on 2 October 1992. It has been announced by a government decree and has been the framework for a number of co-production films since 1998. However, in view of the fact that, in the meantime, the subject covered by the Convention is covered by Annex II of 2004 on moving images. It was regulated by law, and, at the request of the Ministry of Justice, it is justified to publish the Basic Convention by law in addition to repealing the relevant Government Decree, referring to Act L of 2005 on International Contracts. This is therefore only a measure of a legal nature, as the basic agreement has already been published in the form of a government decree in Hungary. The text prepared for publication at the legislative level is fully identical to the text under the 1998 Government Decree, but only changes are made to the level of the legislation. The second bill concerns the revised Movie Coproduction Convention No 220 of the Council of Europe, which I will call a convention later, the publication of this at the legislative level. The revised Convention was opened for signature in Rotterdam on 30 January 2017 and entered into force on 1 October 2017. The revised Convention is authorised to finalise the text 1040/2019. On 29 April 2019 the Permanent Representative of Hungary to the Council of Europe, Ambassador Ágnes Kertész, signed by Hungary. The revised Convention updates the provisions of the Basic Convention and therefore replaces it. At the same time, it is justified that the basic Convention is in force and, in view of this, its legal publication, that the basic Convention should continue to apply in respect of film co-production relations with the parties to the basic Convention who have not ratified the revised Convention. The creation and publication of the revised convention by our country justify the fact that more than twenty years after the previous convention was approved, the European filmmaking system has undergone fundamental technological, economic and financial transformations. This justified updating the subject. By reducing the minimum contribution to co-productions to countries with less production capacity similar to our country, the revised Convention gives countries with greater opportunities to participate in co-productions involving both multilateral and bilateral countries, European and non-European countries with higher volumes and professional benefits, and to participate in national grants for qualified co-productions. In view of the serious internationalisation trends observed in the film industry, the revised Convention provides a framework for officially recognised international co-productions, not only for European co-productions, as it also allows accession to non-European countries. The new Convention offers a flexible opportunity to modify the appendix governing the issue of co-production ratings and the point system necessary for obtaining certification. The genre-adjusted scoring system allows for a more differentiated assessment; besides the category of feature films, the category of animation films and documentary films will also be introduced. In addition, it allows for a scoring of the production site of visual effects and of the motion picture created by the computer. The ratification of the revised Convention is an important interest for our country, given that the conditions set out therein provide opportunities for participation in more co-production films. International co-productions can provide a higher budget through mutual access to public and regional support from co-production partners and also open the way to wider audiences. The target group of the revised convention is the Hungarian film profession, and indirectly the whole society. The possibility of participating in international cinema co-productions also expands the job opportunities of Hungarian professionals, while co-production works bring professional and financial success. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I ask you to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-28-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speech will now take place in a 30-30-minute time frame. The first is Mr Zoltán Fenyvesi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2019-05-28-91	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Film co-production is a tool for expressing cultural diversity at European level, which contributes to preserving the cultural diversity of European countries; the two legislative proposals before us cover this theme. In view of the fact that European film cooperation initially took place mainly along bilateral and later multilateral co-productions, it was necessary to establish a convention governing relations with film co-productions initiated in the territory of the Parties to the Convention. This is the European Film Co-production Convention, which was concluded on 2 October 1992, which entered into force in 1994 and was ratified by 43 Member States of the Council of Europe. Our country is 7/1998. it has been announced by a government decree and has been the framework for a number of co-production films since 1998. The basic agreement aims to harmonise state aid for co-productions and to simplify the rules on co-production procedures and production. It regulates, inter alia, the scope of the Convention, the conditions for obtaining co-production certification, the rights of the parties involved, the entry and exit of the relevant technical and artistic staff and the export of film production. This Convention was revised in 2017, as the European filmmaking system has clearly undergone not only technological but also economic and financial changes over the past twenty years. Hungary signed the revised Convention on 29 April 2019, joining the other 26 States. It is important to stress that the revised Convention can be seen as a major step forward compared to the previous Basic Convention and that a number of points are updated. For example, by reducing the minimum contribution to co-productions, countries with lower production capacity will have a better chance of participating in bilateral or multilateral co-productions. It makes the new convention more flexible, and, thanks to the differentiation of the scoring system, it introduces new categories such as feature films and animation films. Ladies and gentlemen, Although the 1992 Basic Convention, as I mentioned earlier, was published by means of a Government Decree, the subject covered by the 2004 II Convention on Motion Picture. It is governed by law and therefore the request of the Ministry of Justice is justified in relation to the publication by law of the Basic Convention, which would replace the previous regulation relating to it. [[13.40]] Although the revised Convention would replace the core Convention after its publication, its scope should be maintained, as there are many countries that have not yet ratified the revised Convention and so the basic Convention provisions are applicable. Ladies and gentlemen, The publication of the revised conventions is in the interests of our country, given that the conditions contained in it allow us to participate in more co-production films, which not only strengthens the reputation of our country, but also enhances the job opportunities of Hungarian professionals. Please support both billings. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-05-28-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman György Szilágyi, notary of the Parliament, lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, please.
u2019-05-28-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Co-productions have economic benefits in addition to the areas of film production, film distribution and tourism. Hungarian film-making professionals who are well-acclaimed and highly employed can not only hope for benefits from such cooperation because of orders, but can improve their relationship system, learn different techniques, and then use them in the Hungarian film industry. Co-productions also promote the distribution of films, as such works can be attractive in several markets, the Hungarian tourist attractions presented in the films, and cultural values also strengthen the tourist attraction of Hungary. They are expected to contribute to the economic development of Hungary through the supplier network and to increase the tax and contribution revenue of the State through employment. In view of all this, the Jobbik Group of the Movement for Hungary will support this bill, and I would like to mention that we hope that films such as the film that was made in 1981 were filmed in Hungarian-German-Austrian co-production, most of which was filmed in Budapest, and which was the first feature film to receive the Oscar Award for the best foreign language feature film, I am talking about Mephisto. I hope that you will be able to shoot such films in the future, and I can only hope that these will include historical Hungarian films or even co-production films with which I feel that we have been indebted since the change of regime, because before the change of regime, much more Hungarian historical feature films have been made that still withstand the challenges of time. I hope you can make movies like this. So once again, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary will support this bill. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-05-28-94	Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group, Mr Attila Mesterházy, is next. Here you go.
u2019-05-28-95	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In order to save time, I will not repeat the things that my good fellow Member or my fellow Member, who is in fact a fidesz, spoke of, which were indeed about the merit of this regulation. Indeed, perhaps it is worth saying a sentence that Hungarian film has achieved great success in recent years, so almost every year there is a production that we can be proud of. Therefore, any initiative that gives the Hungarian film industry a new opportunity to expand their toolbox, their opportunity to achieve as much success as possible is welcome. So while we congratulate the Hungarian filmmakers on their success and encourage them to conquer new peaks, the Hungarian Socialist Party's faction wants this law to be adopted by the House, so we will support it. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-05-28-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, lead speaker of the Democratic Coalition, please.
u2019-05-28-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to add that Hungarian film, Hungarian cinema, and the fantastic cultural heritage that has been created in recent decades, Hyppolit, from the footman to the present, are also very important for the Democratic Coalition. And I am also very pleased that my fellow Member György Szilágyi mentioned Mephisto because it was an example that it could and hopefully in the future it could be made Hungarian films in such a way that when the foreign partner proposed to become, say, a foreign cameraman, be the costume designer abroad, the stage designer, István Szabó was the man who said that he was still working with Lajos Koltai or Györgyi Szakács. I think that this cultural heritage or this approach should be strong in the future. The Democratic Coalition will support the bill. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-05-28-98	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I find that no, no further comments have been made. The joint general debate is closed. Secretary of State, would you like to reflect? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári nodds.]] Here you go.
u2019-05-28-99	Thank you very much. We talk so much about each other that sometimes we praise each other. Thank you very much for all the factions for their statements of support, and I hope that will also be the case in the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause for the governing parties, sporadic applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2019-05-28-100	It's a pleasure to be the chair when that sentence is spoken. [[Defiance.]] This is definitely specific. However, less so as to announce how long the amendments can be submitted: Thursday, at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the proposal for a decision declaring the year of national cohesion for 2020 will follow until closure. Submitted by the Committee on National Inclusion H/5486. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Panczél, Chairman of the Committee on National Inclusion, rapporteur of the item, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2019-05-28-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Don't forget that your brother is Hungarian wherever he lives. I quote to you Wass Albert's line, and in this, in fact, almost everything about national integration is very briefly included. The resolution of the meeting of the Hungarian Representatives' Forum in the Carpathian Basin, held this spring on 8 March 2019, asked the Parliament to declare the year 2020 as the year of national cohesion. Ladies and gentlemen, The National Assembly Committee, meeting this request, has submitted it to the National Assembly as its rapporteur. The committee decided on the submission with unanimous support and unanimous votes in favour. I would like to say in advance that we do not wish to announce a mourning year, but rather to launch this memorial year with a key idea and a slogan, which is one day a memorial and 365 days a national union. Ladies and gentlemen, Eskimos have hundreds of words and phrases for different temperatures, strength, or melting conditions of snow and ice. Similarly, in Europe there are 180-300 terms for snow and ice. There's nothing surprising about it, because it's the world around them. Hungarians from across borders and from here; Hungarians from abroad; Hungarians from the motherland; Hungarians from separated parts of the country; national parts separated; sporadics, block Hungarians; island or diaspora we have many expressions of Hungarians, because we have lived in a world like this for a hundred years now. Ladies and gentlemen, If we Hungarians say Trianon, then everything is expressed in this word. If we say that Trianon, in that, we have the two World Wars of Losing, the occupations called liberation, two terrible dictatorships, but there is also the second Sunday of Advent 2004. That's where XX is. At the end of the century, there is either Malina Hedvig's Calvary, or today the Beke-Szőcs case, the Székely Mikó College or Ukrainian language law. June 4, 1920, the Paris Peace Dictate, Trianon. In what state did this come to us? [[13.50]] Military and political vulnerability. There was the defeat of World War I, which is interesting that there was no foreign soldier in the country in the autumn of 18 years. He returned home from the North American tour of Mihály Károlyi, from a hostile country, the United States, to Hungary also through an enemy country, France. Their most important activity with Béla Linder was to eliminate the military force. There was the murder of István Tisza in the autumn of 18, then there was the Bolshevik, communist takeover in the spring of 19. After that, it couldn't have been an accident to sentence the motherland to death. Militaryly, politically, with the stamp of communism on us, we stood there in 1920 in complete vulnerability. After 1920, the Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin found themselves in five states, according to today's conditions, in a minority existence and increasingly in decline. But in the last hundred years, the Hungarian identity has continued across borders, and lives on today, through the continuation of national language, literature, life of faith, arts and traditionalism. Thanks to all those who served the nation's belongings, teachers, pastors, writers, artists, athletes, two-handed workers, peasants with bark hands, all those who have kept the issue of national cohesion for the last hundred years. We survived this hundred years of murder. In fact, we did not simply survive, but achieved results recognized in the eyes of the world. We also need to present these results in the Memorial Year. In November 2018, last autumn at the Hungarian Permanent Conference Prime Minister Viktor Orbán turned to the representatives of the Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin and to the Diaspora Hungarians so that the hundred years of solitude had ended. We all know the novel by Gabriel García Márquez Nobel Prize winner Colombian writer, which is exactly about leaving the homeland, is about expulsion from paradise. Well, we can say that the hundred years of loneliness are over. From 2010 we have formulated and implemented a new national policy in which we have started the cross-border merger of Hungarians by public law, we have put it into law, we have introduced the institution of dual citizenship, we have put the day of national integration into law. And in 2011, we adopted a new Fundamental Law, whose article (D) is about responsibility, according to which Hungary is responsible for Hungarians across the border. Today we can say that the Carpathian Basin can be seen as a kind of cultural space. Just aim for the commemorative years Golden Memorial Year, Szent László, King Matthias, Rákóczi Memorial Year, the operation of Hungarian houses, the functioning of cultural associations, the cultural relations and cooperation in Twinning. We can say that there is a Hungarian cultural space in the Carpathian Basin. And we can say that there is also an educational space in the Carpathian Basin. From this, let me aim for the largest institutional development action that is still underway today, the Carpathian Basin kindergarten building programme, where 150 new kindergartens are being built and more than 350 will be renovated. This is 600 Hungarian children's institutions in the Carpathian Basin, beyond the borders of the mother country. In order to compare, the last institution development of this scale in the Carpathian Basin was in the truncated country during Klebelsberg. There is a system of education and training support, and we can say that institutions also operate as flagships in higher education. The European College has been built in Novi Sad, Subotica is currently being renovated, but all the universities and colleges in Beregszás, Komárom, Oradea, Szipszereda, Marosvásárhely are institutions of national importance. And we can say that the Carpathian Basin also functions as an economic space. With the support of the Hungarian government, we started a programme of economic recovery worth HUF 20 billion in the South of Hungary, then it continued with HUF 12 billion in Transcarpathia, in the Highlands with HUF 10 billion. We have closed applications, and as a result we can say that at least once more it has moved such sums and helped the native Hungarians live there to survive, prosper and thrive in their homeland. And now this economic recovery programme begins in Transylvania with EUR 77 million, or HUF 25 billion. I could also talk about further flagships of national policy, such as the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor program, where 146 scholarships are now available to the Hungarians of the diaspora, the western Hungarians, and 30 church persons. And about the Petőfi program, which includes 73 scholarships in the territory of the former Monarchy, here in the neighbouring countries, who connects and maintains relations between the motherland and the sporadic Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin. So the hundred years of loneliness are over. Dear House, Our proposal is that 2020 should be a tribute to the national loyalty of the Hungarian nation. Let us present our achievements that we can be proud of. Let us show what we have achieved over the last hundred years in the fields of culture, sport, scientific life and the economy, and at the same time make a new offer to the peoples of the region, making a new offer to the neighboring peoples, with the idea that today's Europe is moving in such a way that nations will be lost without cooperation; separately, it is quite certain. Together, we may be able to save our nations. I wish that there should be a strong Hungarian nation, a strong Romanian, Ukrainian and Serbian nation, but at the same time we also expect these strong nations to give the indigenous Hungarian minority of their country Community rights, as these are fundamental human rights. A fundamental human right is the right to self-determination, the right to self-government; or let us call it autonomy, the right to autonomy. It's not separatism. Self-determination brings peace, social peace, and if a national minority, an indigenous nation on a minority line, feels good, it brings prosperity. And if there is prosperity, there is also economic growth and prosperity. We want such a new future in Central Europe, and that is what our offer would serve. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We've been losers most of the last hundred years. We want the Hungarians to be the winner of the next hundred years. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-28-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask him to speak on behalf of the government, Mr. Secretary of State. [[Árpád János Potápi: Yes.]] Here you go. Mr. Secretary of State Potápi has the floor.
u2019-05-28-103	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Mr Charles Panczél, President of the Commission, Let me start by giving you an anniversary light. The date of the EP elections the day before yesterday was an anniversary, as on 26 May 2010 Parliament decided before the then government was established to give Hungarians the possibility of dual citizenship. This anniversary and our dual citizenship law at the time made it possible for the Hungarians beyond the borders to vote in several ways in the EP elections, for example because at the end of 2018, we made it possible for Transcarpathians and Hungarians in Vojvodina to take part in the vote. [[14.00]] I'd like to thank them for their help. I thank Hungarians from other countries of the Carpathian Basin for their participation in the EP elections and their support for national emotional parties. I would like to highlight the RMDSZ and congratulate them, and I wish Mr Gyula Winkler good work in the European Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, The past nine years have been able to produce numerous and countless results of national policy, many of which have been said by my fellow Member. I believe that the period between 10 and 14 has developed a framework, and together we have established a framework that included the Double Citizenship Act, part of which was the adoption of the Day of National Inclusion, the incorporation of the Law, part of the fact that a new Fundamental Law of the Hungarian nation could finally be created in Hungary, and part of it was that the parliamentary elections of 14 and 18 were extended to the entire Carpathian Basin and even to the Hungarianness of the Diaspora, and so their vote is included in the results of the representatives sitting here today. This framework also made it possible and the economic strengthening of Hungary that we were able to keep moving forward from 14 to 14 in the country of origin, and we started economic development programmes in the Carpathian Basin, first in Vojvodina, then in Transcarpathia, Felvidék, Muravidék and Croatian Baranya. Obviously, these economic development programmes could only be launched by consulting with the Hungarians living there, their political representatives, and, of course, we also had to consult with the governments of the successor states in order to introduce these programmes, and these programmes could start. Hungary supports entrepreneurs living and working outside its borders in the order of ten thousand, because these entrepreneurs employ 92.5 percent of Hungarian people, 4-5, 5-6 or even 10 Hungarian people in a small enterprise. This means that we can help at least as many Hungarian families, and we can give them a safe future, they can have children, these children learn in Hungarian institutions, they become Hungarian in their homeland, and we very much hope that the Hungarians growing up in the Carpathian Basin will leave their homeland much less than they have done in recent decades, as they will be able to thrive in their homeland. We have a lot of results in recent years, and such an important result is the fact that in 18 years the Hungarian Permanent Conference accepted in its final declaration that their programmes and activities focus on the support of families. This is an important step forward, as besides Hungary, Hungarians and Hungarian parties have put the support of Hungarian families at the heart of their public activities and policies, as well as the support of growing generations, children and young people, and the promotion of childbearing. I believe that both the cradle and kindergarten development programme, the development of schools and the fact that we can now talk about a single space in the Carpathian Basin not only in an economic sense but also in terms of education, it strengthens children and youth, and we offer them a full life as Hungarians across the border. Of course, this includes strengthening Hungarian media across borders in order for Hungarians to be able to appear in neighbouring countries and in the news streams of the Carpathian Basin both there and here. I think that it is possible to talk about subsidies, but obviously not everything is money, and this was also mentioned earlier by Mr President, but perhaps we can also point out that during the last socialist government, which we understand in narrow national policy, was HUF 9.1 billion. Last year and the year before, if we look at the whole economic year, we were able to provide more than HUF 100 billion as a support to Hungarian institutions, Hungarian churches, Hungarian church and civil society organisations, thus strengthening them and contributing to them by launching economic development programmes. All these common goals have resulted in the fact that today we can talk about a growing and growing sense of the Carpathian Basin and Hungary as the diaspora grants and diaspora programmes are also in progress in the world today. There are many things that could be listed there, and I think that the scarcity of time does not allow this, but perhaps we do not have to, but only a few facts about this: we are talking about two and a half million Hungarians when we talk about Western Europe and overseas. Finally, we can support schools and civil and religious organizations there in recent years, and we can strengthen it in order to talk about living, virulent Hungarian communities in the diaspora. I welcome the proposal for a resolution from the government. We can say that this proposal for a resolution, we hope, will meet with the agreement of the whole Parliament, all the more so because more parties have expressed similar thoughts in recent times. It would be good to be able to decide on this with a consensus at multi-party or all-Parlament levels in order to ensure that the year 2020 clearly shows what happened a hundred years ago, but to highlight that, despite all the difficulties, Csonka-Hungary and the Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin have been able to present and present a number of cultural, educational, sports and economic achievements. This clinging to the past will also enable us to work together to define the goals of the future and to be strong together in the coming decades. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President.
u2019-05-28-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Richard Hörcsik, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2019-05-28-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Nine years ago, our fellow Member László Kövér and Zsolt Semjén presented to Parliament a bill on testimony to national cohesion, which we heard before the House adopted on 4 June 2010. I remember this day well, too, because it was a special time when Parliament opened a completely new era: once and for all we made it clear that our national tragedy should not only be remembered, but also the opportunity to start a new dialogue with neighbouring peoples, to start a new cooperation that could lead to joint action, a new united will, I could also say, to join together what is fragmented. [[14.10]] Yes, we are on an ambitious mission that harmonises the interests and brings a new perspective for all of us here in the Carpathian Basin. My fellow Members have put this proposal on the table of this House with the conviction that there is no real alternative to cooperation between our country and neighbouring countries. This is why we hope, fellow Members, that the proposal, which is the obvious consequence of the aforementioned law of 2010, will receive support at least in such a unit. Ladies and gentlemen, The presentation of the Committee on National Inclusion, I believe, reflects an action aimed at putting into practice the law on national cohesion. With the adoption of the resolution proposal before us, we hold ourselves to the letter of the law in favour of paying tribute to all those who have persisted in bloody times, even in the most difficult situations, and have undertaken to be Hungarian in the most diverse situations and retortions. Furthermore, remembering those who have done everything as Hungarian citizens and as members of other nations to ensure that the independent Hungarian statehood remains united even after this great national tragedy, in the difficult circumstances, giving all Hungarian citizens the opportunity to thrive, to thrive and to thrive, and that is what we are doing. The legislation adopted nine years ago therefore obliges us, in addition to the above, to work to strengthen national cohesion in the struggles of the last 90 years, by drawing on the results of national renewal, so to speak. To this end, we declared 4 June, the day of the Trianon peace dictatorship, a day of national solidarity, and therefore we declare or wish to declare the year 2020 as the year of national cohesion. Mr President, The importance of the proposal before us is plural. It also provides an opportunity for the political spectrum as a whole to show that although, although we disagree on a number of issues, our goals are different, we agree on one thing: that the framework within which Hungary can remain and develop in the Carpathian Basin is of particular importance for the future and fate of our nation. I believe that the 100-year anniversary of the Trianon peace dictatorship gives everyone an opportunity to account for the ongoing unsolving of all political, economic, legal and psychological problems, or, as we would say, the unspeakable nature of what this unjust decision has made and caused. These problems, their consequences, are undeniable and significant. I can only say that in relation to my personal involvement. Regional losses are difficult to measure, as it was equally tragic to lose Bereg100, as it was to get under the jurisdiction of Arad or Muraszombat in another state. However, for all those who live near today's borders in Trianon, or who simply know among their ancestors those who have been born and lived in the disconnected territories, whether they have been persecuted for long periods of their Hungarianness, with the most diverse knowledge, they can have so to say experience of what Trianon meant and its consequences for a hundred years. As an individual representative of the parts of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county belonging to Abaúj and Zemplén, I face the negative effects of the Trianon peace dictatorship every day, even after a hundred years. My constituency is based in Sátoraljaújhely, the capital of the historic Zemplén county. A city with a smaller, northern part of it is attached so that a strategic infrastructure, the Košice-Csap railway line, can remain in the territory of the successor state. The possibilities for the development of the former well-equipped county seat have been significantly blocked by the new state border. But this is also what I can say about the settlements of my constituency in Abaúj, which were in the Košice district, but as a result of the new state border, their relationship to the big city of the region has been lost, and they are indeed on the periphery of the county, and they still face serious challenges. In both parts of Abaúj, Slovakia, and Hungary, there has been a crowd of sack settlements on both sides, from which the peoples have only migrated in the last hundred years. Mr President, Dear House, The state border defined by the Trianon peace dictatorship has separated not only cities, not only villages, but also people and families. This is not necessary, but we have seen common sense that, although we have common interests, we have had to face a conflict of interests on several occasions over the last decades. Why the situation turned out this way? That may also be the subject of the research of historian colleagues in the coming period, but we, who represent the electoral community here, are responsible for making this happen differently in the future. In this context, our action must be based not only on the letter of the law, but also on the voice of our fellow countrymen who, working across the border for the Hungarian community, experience on their own skin what really promotes the development of national cohesion and the Carpathian Basin as a whole. We have heard from my fellow Member, Károly Panczél, that at the meeting of the Hungarian Representatives' Forum in the Carpathian Basin on 8 March 2019 the request was made for the year 2020 to be the year of national cohesion. It is therefore the task of the Parliament to take action to create the conditions for worthy commemoration and salute, and also to give weight to the offer of cooperation to neighbouring states. In addition to events, commemorations, exhibitions, conferences, educational and educational materials and films will be produced. The aim of these could be, like the Memorial Year, to deepen the discussion with neighbouring peoples and to strengthen cooperation. However, ladies and gentlemen, in order for these works and opportunities to be created, I believe that it will be necessary to provide an adequate source, since due to the importance of the matter, there should not be any financial obstacle to organising worthy and high-quality events and preparing materials. I am convinced that a number of values can be created that can enrich Hungarians not only during the Memorial Year but also later throughout the world. Ladies and gentlemen, There is agreement between the group of the rapporteur and the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association that careful planning, proper preparation and quality implementation will be needed on this important issue. The Parliament therefore now has the task of establishing the framework for this commemorative year, setting objectives and defining the criteria to be followed. I therefore ask, like the author, the support of this House on either three or eight sides of the horseshoe. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-05-28-106	Thank you very much. Mr János Bencsik, lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, is coming. Here you go.
u2019-05-28-107	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The history of the decision proposal before us goes back more than two years. For the sake of clarity and historical loyalty, I would like to give you a brief summary. In March 2017, István Szávay, a former Member, proposed as a member of the National Assembly Committee that we commemorate the peace document closing World War I within the framework of a Trianon Memorial Year. [[14.20]] Then you, fellow Members of the Government, said that you would present your own proposal, which will also commemorate the events between 1918 and 1920 in a worthy manner. This did not happen at the time, and even here in May 2017 our proposal on this matter was voted out in Parliament. However, we have already stated that we are open to amendments both with regard to the title of our proposal and its text, because our aim was to bring to Parliament a proposal for a resolution which is accompanied by the broadest possible consensus on the part of the parties. In November, we again presented the same proposal for a resolution, which you then voted against again, and then again on 4 June 2018, which you will vote against again. This is how we got to March this year, when, following the decision of the Hungarian Permanent Conference, you submitted an initiative with similar content declaring the year of national cohesion 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, I thought it was only important to bring this back to you in order to make it clear that Jobbik wanted to deal with this whole matter early in 2018. We would have considered it important for the Hungarian truth to be there against the Trianon narrative of the neighbouring countries. We wanted our countrymen from abroad to feel that Hungary is standing unwaveringly behind them in the midst of the celebration in the neighbouring countries and the nationalist rumbling. It would also have been of national political importance to take action in time not to think in Western Europe that the peace treaty concluded in Trianon was a fundamentally good decision that would have solved the issue of nationality in the Carpathian Basin. After all, we all know that on a daily basis we are following the political, public and social struggles of the separated Hungarians for survival, that unfortunately this is far from so. Even though a century has passed, Trianon still lives with us today, and its effects are in the everyday life of Hungarians from abroad. It is there in the attempt to ban the Hymnus singing in the Highlands, in the case of the Transcarpathian language law, in the case of the illegally displaced Russian soldier cemetery in Szeklerland and Transylvania, and in the violent exchange of populations in the Hungarian ethnic villages in the South. Dear Parliament, After more than two years of delay and a row, we now have a proposal that will finally address this issue, which we are of course pleased to do, and despite the fact that you, my fellow members of the Government, have not previously been partners in the constructive debate, we will try to be involved in this, because we consider it appropriate as a responsible opposition party. I would also like to make an important addition, and here I am pleased to note the dissent of my fellow Member, Mr Károly Panczél, President of the Commission, on the importance of autonomy, because we also believe that this is a fundamental principle, the need for autonomy of foreign Hungarians, which should be their place, should be included in this proposal. Since the establishment of Jobbik, he has been a committed and consistent supporter of the Hungarian self-determination effort abroad. That is why we would like to propose that support for the autonomous struggles should be included in this proposal. We are convinced that the financial and economic support of the mother country, which is otherwise saved and to be supported, is not enough for the long-term survival and growth of the separated Hungarian communities. Independence in the European Union is an existing, established form of self-determination, and, as history has shown, it benefits not only the minority but also the majority nation. Only then can we trust that in Beregszász, Székelykeresztú, Zentán or Rimászombat will the XXII. If we can achieve the territorial autonomy of Hungarians living in a block as soon as possible, and in areas where the population of Hungarians is already in a minority, cultural self-determination is there. On behalf of the Jobbik Hungary Movement, this is why my fellow Member Brenner Koloman and I have announced our support for the Szekler National Council's European Citizens' Initiative on National Regions, which can be an important milestone in the fight against autonomy in the Carpathian Basin Hungarians. We are very confident that all the other parties in Hungary will join this. Dear Parliament, The Trianon peace dictate dismembered our country while forcing one third of our nation under foreign hostile jurisdiction, fatally turning the peoples of the Carpathian Basin against each other. After a century, we were finally given the opportunity to heal the wounds and to achieve the cross-border unification of Hungarians. In this big joint case, in this great, worthy mission, the Hungarian Parliament and the Hungarians from abroad can count on Jobbik's active and helpful participation. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-05-28-108	Thank you very much. Congressman László Szászfalvi, lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, please.
u2019-05-28-109	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Albert Wass put it this way in one of his speeches in 1967: if we still have a purpose in our lives, it can only be and nothing else to provide futures for the Hungarian nation. Yes, this is the only great purpose in life, this is the only great reason in life to ensure future together, together for the Hungarian nation. I think that the Forum of Hungarian Representatives in the Carpathian Basin, when as a community of legitimate political forces in the Carpathian Basin, proposed that the Hungarian Parliament adopt a parliamentary decision, it did so in this spirit. And when the National Assembly Committee accepted this parliamentary resolution proposal and presented it to the Parliament, it also did so in the spirit of this thought: if there is still any purpose in our lives, it can only be and nothing else to give the Hungarian nation a future. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Given that much has already been said in the previous speeches, I would not like to repeat all this, I would briefly point out that a threefold purpose of this Parliamentary resolution proposal has been formulated. Partly remembering the shameful Trianon tragedy, which will continue to be a national day of mourning for us in the coming year, and also a national year of mourning in 2020. But thank God, we can say that we have survived this last hundred years, thank God, we live and are here in the Carpathian Basin, and not only in the Csonka-Hungary, but also in our Hungarian communities abroad, and we can say, in a symbolic sense, but very real sense, about our national community, that there is a resurrection from the dead, and it slowly seems that we can say this after a hundred years. At the same time, this parliamentary decision proposal is, of course, a tribute, a respectful and grateful declaration by the parliament to the Hungarian generations and Hungarian patriots of the last hundred years before the loyalty and patriotism of the nation. Here we could probably have a long list, perhaps for hours, of the depths, the trials, the challenges, the humiliations, the tragedies that have led to this last hundred years, and how much stability we can bear out, of all the signs of loyalty, national loyalty, patriotism, famous heroes at the forefront and many, many, anonymous, ordinary heroes in these hundred years. Thirdly, this Parliamentary resolution proposal also has a forward-looking significance and message, as it would like to urge the parliamentary resolution, in which we will take the year 2020 as the year of national integration and wish to declare that we will again hold hands to gather strength together, and with this force, with this hope and this hope, work together for the sake of a united Hungarian nation. [[14.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, As has been said, in the last 8-9 years, there has been a change of national policy paradigm in Hungary, and we can say that the Hungarian nation has been reunited in a public sense. In the process of national reunification, let me quote only in songs: the adoption of the Fundamental Law, the law of national integration, the law of dual citizenship, the reopening of Maért, the beginning of the work of the Diaspora Council, the establishment of a system of national importance in the Carpathian Basin, the various national policy programmes, which we could and have also heard a great deal of this; the launch and extension of economic development programmes and the fact that the Hungarian state budget has now increased the budgetary support of Hungarian national communities abroad by more than ten times. We can say that we have created a legal, institutional and economic framework in the process of national reunification, and that the greatest task of the coming period is no longer to create a nation union, but to build a nation. In this legal, institutional and economic framework, we can help and support this process of nation-building from all parties, from all parliamentary parties, hopefully even from DK. Ladies and gentlemen, So in this nation-building process, filling these frameworks with life will be our greatest task and our greatest challenge. In other words, the creation of the Hungarian-Hungarian relationship, the Hungarian-Hungarian network connection in the Carpathian Basin, and this obviously affects countless small communities, settlement communities, religious communities, civil communities, local governments and, of course, the government of the mother country, Parliament, as well as the responsible political factors of our foreign communities. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear fellow Members, The Parliamentary Decision declaring the year of national cohesion of 2020 is, I believe, an important step in this vital process of nation-building. The most important aim is therefore not only to maintain and ensure Hungarian life, but also to preserve, develop and increase it here in the Carpathian Basin. We can say together with Gábor Bethlen, our Transylvanian prince, that it is not always possible to do what needs to be done, but it is always necessary to do what can be done. So let us all do what we can now, together, and respectfully ask all parliamentary groups to support this proposal. That's what KDNP will do. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-28-110	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, head speaker of the MSZP. Here.
u2019-05-28-111	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that the Hungarian Socialist Party Group supports this proposal. I think that Trianon hurts everyone, we may draw different conclusions from this, but nevertheless, we also judge this historical sequence in the same way. I think that, in commenting on what has been said, I am more sympathetic to what Mr Panczél said that this proposal is about belonging, not mourning. Being together is always more hopeful and focused on the future, grief always turns to the past, and much less motivates one. That is why I think it is a right and a good initiative that this is a proposal for belonging, not for the past and for the grief of the proposal, even if it is right to do so. Let me add a few things to what my good fellow Member has said. The idea you're talking about may be correct, but I don't think it's for this initiative. I think this initiative is about what has been formulated here. However, I would consider it useful to have in Parliament a political agenda, a debate where, where appropriate, either money spent on cross-border areas, government policy, related issues of the opposition, or even new initiatives can be put forward in a new proposal for a resolution. I would therefore consider it useful not to discuss, in the context of such an item on the agenda, what kind of cross-border policy is saving and who has achieved what successes, because perhaps it would be a little unworthy of this initiative if, in this context, we were to criticise government activity, and I therefore reject it. Allow me to make one more comment. The material refers to the fact that it is more of a wake-up call that it has been drafted in the agreed final declaration of the KMKF, and we would like to respect what we have adopted together. I think that's a very good idea. Let me add one addition: it would be good if this were true of all such decisions adopted jointly. So in Hungarian, when you accept a joint statement for Ma unanimously, and there may be a proposal in it that may not bring so much joy to the pro-government representatives, then show openness in this respect, but I have finished the criticism. The MSZP fraction will support the initiative. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-05-28-112	Thank you very much. Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, lead speaker of DK.
u2019-05-28-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I will start with what is most important psychologically: of course, Trianon is a national tragedy. That's not even a question for anyone. And that's why I think with a soul, everyone feels it as pain. At the same time, it should be pointed out that Trianon did not just fall through the window on his own. A first world war broke out before him, and Hungary, among other things, started it. The Hungarian government! Stop, dog Serbia! He ran into this war with a cry, and we lost this war. This has resulted in the truly disproportionate Trianon peace treaty, which has become a peaceful peace for Hungary and for Europe as a whole for the coming decades. But I would like to remind everyone that this has happened at all, that our ancestors have a serious historical responsibility. So not only did something happen to us, but something happened, and this man here at Kossuth Square has a statue, who has thrown this war on this country, I would like to signal it. And this statue was made by you. It may be said that all those who had warned the country at the time, see Endre Ady, that this would be trouble, and that she had been spit on, stoned, but a few years had passed, and a country was fluttering in front of the National Museum to touch the funeral and the coffin, so that, look, Ady was right. And the result of Trianon not only was that countries and populations were connected to other countries, but it also resulted in Hungary drifting into World War II. Hungary, Adolf Hitler, served one of the greatest villains in world history. This is also the result of Trianon. It is also a consequence of Trianon's death in the Don turn of 200 thousand Hungarians in a senseless war. It is also the consequence of Trianon that Pál Teleki committed suicide because Hungary broke a non-aggression treaty, a peace treaty, an eternal non-aggression treaty with Yugoslavia. It is also the consequence of Trianon that István Bethlen, who did not support entry into the war, was eventually taken away by the Soviets. It is also the consequence of Trianon's departure from this country, Béla Bartók. It's also the consequence of Trianon leaving the country, Gyula Kabos. It is also the consequence of Trianon's beating Antal Serb to death with a rifle; what happened to Miklós Radnóti. [[14.40]] It is also a consequence of Trianon's fact that after we attacked the Soviet Union, the country did not even have the power to show that the Soviets did not take Hungary in return. And, of course, there's a part of liberation and there's an occupation. So there's a lot to filter through when we remember what happened a hundred years ago. And I am very pleased that, by the way, and I can honestly say that Fidesz has reached the point where it does not stand up and march out of Parliament, as it did during the Antall government. I think it's a healthy development of character. And the Democratic Coalition also supports that Hungarian communities across borders can cultivate their culture, traditions and all that connects them to the motherland, so that this community can become an existing spiritual community. In fact, the Democratic Coalition also supports autonomy efforts, if this is not an initiative for domestic political purposes dictated by Hungary and deliberately generating conflicts, but can be the result of a debate and agreement with a particular country. I note here that I am also very pleased that the RMDSZ has finally taken over the bar at the last minute and is able to send a representative to the European Parliament. I'm sorry this didn't happen in Slovakia. It is also very important to see, and I would like to make an important point in this case, that the national feeling is not the property of the Hungarian right, it is not yours, it is not the Fidesz Voters or the KDNP Voters, it is not even the members or voters of the Jobbik and Our Hungary Movement, it is ours. We are Hungarians exactly the same way, and we feel the same responsibility for the Hungarian nation, for all its members, from here and beyond, as you do. And as a result, when we governed, we tripled the support of Hungarian libraries, theatres and schools across the border. I know this precisely because Dávid Daróczi was the government spokesperson who had just gotten sick, and therefore I had to sort of celebrate that particular event, and I was very happy and proud to be at such an event. But I also think it is very important that Fidesz has finally finished the work that Fidesz has done with Hungarians from across the border at some point in time, that it has started to form parties from here, which, with 0.5 percent results, have caused serious damage to Transylvania, I am talking about Transylvania to a legitimate organization, the RMDSZ, and they disappeared in the end. I'm glad we finally got through this. I also think it is very important to point out that for us, every day is a day of national cohesion, and I do not need a memorial year, and I live it every day. When István, the King, was 20 years old in 2003, that was the first time he reached Transylvania, Csíksomlyó, during the Medgyessy government. I was the press chief of that event, and at the last minute I called Minister of Foreign Affairs László Kovács, because the organizers said it would take another or two million forints to make sure everything was okay. And László Kovács gave me the money from his own ministerial budget to make that happen. I would just like to point out that you are not the only ones who have the national feeling, or you are not the only ones who have this kind of representation of national symbols. At the same time, it is extremely important that the European Union is fantastic and that Hungary and the countries around us are members of the European Union. Now let us imagine the situation where you are constantly busy here, if there were no European Union, and between these countries there would be an iron curtain between Hungary and Romania, let us say, as happened in Ceaușescu time. The reason we can go through is because we can give support to Hungarians across the border or build kindergartens or whatever, because there is a European Union. If there were no European Union, this would all be impossible. Let us be glad that there is a European Union. And the idea that the Democratic Coalition is talking about, the idea of the united states in Europe, is precisely the guarantee of this peace. And it is a token that Hungarians in the motherland can form an organic community without making this difficult by armed conflict, or that the current host countries can make Hungarians impossible by means of legal regulations. This is what the European Union is ensuring that this cannot happen. Therefore, I say that every day should be a day of national solidarity, not only with Hungarians across the border, but also that when the opposition says or proposes something, you acknowledge this and acknowledge that we are exactly the same Hungarians, and that our hearts are also beating on the left. Thank you very much.
u2019-05-28-114	Dear Parliament, I see the candidates, of course everyone gets the floor. In historical debates, believe me, I'd be happy to participate myself, and I can't do that at the moment. However, it is my duty to say, just because you have elected me to the position in which I am now declaring that the proposal for a decision declaring the year of national cohesion of 2020 is the subject, I would like to ask you all with respect, as well as the following, to make speeches accordingly, in accordance with our house rules. I did this in the light of the fact that I do not know what the next few speakers are going to say. And this is indeed a debate on a proposal for a decision. Discussion on the proposal for a decision. Therefore, there is no limit to your opinion, Mr Philip Erik, an independent Member, now gets the floor. Thank you very much. [[László Szászfalvi: Thank you, Mr President.]]
u2019-05-28-115	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is symbolic, I think, or it is symbolic that you have announced to me, Mr President, that my comment should be limited only and specifically to the subject of the resolution. I'll try, but I can't promise you that.
u2019-05-28-116	Stop, stop! It's not symbolic, sir. It's about factions making statements so far. Now it's not a faction, it's an independent congressman. Not the person, not the position, but the leaders of the factions have spoken so far. Just so we can understand each other exactly. Now I'm trying to touch you, and I hope you understand me. Here you go.
u2019-05-28-117	I fully understood Mr. President. Thank you very much. Then I will try to put it this way: on the one hand, I would like to share the opinion of my own opinion and, on the other hand, the Group of Members of the Hungarian Movement. I think that it is very important to say that, of course, the Hungarian Movement supports all initiatives which, on the one hand, serve the benefit and growth of our truncated country, our mother country, and, on the other hand, try to cultivate our Hungarians stranded outside the truncated country and keep them conscious of their Hungarian identity. I also think that it was perhaps a little symbolic that, on this day's day, the item on the 1st agenda, in which we could all be involved, was about a very important, very serious subject, in which many said that unfortunately Hungarians were running out. And this applies not only to our truncated country, the Hungarian territory, but also to the fact that, unfortunately, it also applies to Hungarian blocks that are stranded outside our borders. When I was young, I thought, and of course I loved these two figures very much, that 10 million people live in Hungary and 5 million people live outside Hungary, and 15 million Hungarians can be talked about when we talk about a Hungarian nation. This figure has fallen to a terrible and tragic degree, and this is not to a small extent due to the concept that dominated Hungary between 1947 and 1989, as we can remember that it is not only the trianon sorbidism that we have to remember every day and live with this consciousness, but also the 1956 where Hungarian people were killed and displaced by extremist ideologies. [[14.50]] And, of course, we should also mention the failed foreign policy of the last thirty years, which has led to the fact that we are not talking about 15 million national brothers now, if we mention Hungarians. I think that it is also symbolic that, unfortunately, parties with parliamentary factions who should be here, I see only the place where they should be, and in relation to such an important item, which is a genuine national belonging, they do not speak at all, nor do they even speak, but they are not here. I think it's not just symbolic, it's shocking. I do not want to be a historian about Mr Gréczy's speech, but I did not agree with many things that I cannot go without saying a word. For me, an extremely tragic approach is that if a nation ever gets involved in a war for some reason, then as a loser, the tragedy of Trianon, the Hungarian golgota must suffer and endure it every day. I respect the patriotism of all left-wing politicians, which my fellow Member has referred to, but allow us to say that there is no other country in the world today that has been dealt with at such a level as Hungary in 1920. So it's our duty to try to forget about this roster, and, if possible, to reverse it. This cannot be achieved by encouraging political parties to vote against the Double Citizenship Act for any independent political gain. I think that we all welcome any such initiative which has now been put on the table by the pro-government Members, but I do not see the situation as so rosy and so good, which has now been spoken of by the speakers before me. For the third time, the Fidesz-KDNP governing party has received a two-thirds mandate from voters. During the day before yesterday, he also obtained most of the mandates by a decisive majority in the elections to the European Parliament. I think and I feel that it is fair that, given the foreign vote on letters, the proportion of the vote on the cross-border vote, the extent to which they have supported the governing party, they stand up to every single Hungarian law violation every time. I admit the truth that anti-immigration, and the kind of anti-Sorosism that the government's media is already pushing out of place, should be supported and followed in any way to Hungary and, of course, to the representatives of the Hungarian Movement, but I would be very happy if the Hungarians' grievances, the Hungarian atrocities abroad, were at least as determined and at least as courageous as the Hungarian government and fellow Members of the Hungarian government, because I think it would be right to feel that unfortunately Brussels could be opposed to the representatives of the government because of George Soros, but the issue of the autonomy of Hungarians beyond the borders would not really be raised in any particular way, as it would probably cause the displeasure of many in the present party family of the People's Party. But I did mention that I don't feel so rosy. While, at European level and at European Union level, it is possible to speak openly about the right to self-determination and the emergence or development of new states, the issue of autonomy in the Carpathian Basin cannot be raised, it cannot be mentioned, and therefore we say the truth, that there is, unfortunately, no availability of Hungarian autonomy in these Carpathian Basin countries, but that there are provocative, aggressive, often extreme, or even chauvinist movements in the Carpathian Basin, which I feel are very often not bold and strong in the Hungarian foreign policy. Let us consider some examples of what I would like to refer to. Everyone knows what Hungarian atrocities have happened in Vojvodina in recent years, over the past decade. Nevertheless, this country wishes to join the European Union, on which I believe that much more serious, much stronger conditions should and should have been imposed on their accession. On Ukraine, on Transcarpathia, I think that there is no need to talk, because I have been mentioned on several occasions by the speakers before me either on the issue of language law or on the commission of extreme, violent crimes such as the Molotov attack on the centre of the Hungarian Cultural Association of Transcarpathia. This country, or the extremists of this country, are also committing various acts against Hungarians, Transcarpathian Hungarian patriots every day, and they are not deterred, as I mentioned earlier, from violent crimes or crimes. I think that the situation in the neighbouring European Union countries is not much better either. Here, we can also mention, openly, this, against the Dunaszerdahely football team, and the hymn law of singing the Song of Known Faces Without You and the Hungarian anthem, which I think can or could be withdrawn only with international indignation. Unfortunately, the situation in Romania is not much better either, we can safely say that. I am very pleased that our fellow Member Panczél referred to the tragedy of Hungarian patriots Zoltán Szőcs and István Beke, who have been in prison for years because of an act which they have not openly committed and could not have committed. Neither is their strong standing on the part of the Hungarian government, which, I think, would be essential. But while many people in Hungary were worried about the end of the CEU, let's say, the end of the CEU, I am very sorry that the same circles, the same people did not shed a tear against the melting of the University of Marosvásárhely, as they did in the case of CEU. I think that all of us, members of the Hungarian Movement and every political group or group in Parliament, have the only opportunity to accept and vote for this proposal for a resolution, because we all have to make a much stronger stand for the future, precisely so that Hungarians beyond the borders can remain. With the words of Dezső Szabó, I would like to conclude my short speech, which is why we have to do this, because all Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians. Thank you so much for listening.
u2019-05-28-118	Thank you very much. As a speaker asking for a normal word, Mr István Happy, representative of Fidesz, is next. Here you go.
u2019-05-28-119	Mr. President. Dear House, As a matter of fact, I wouldn't argue with you, and I'm not going with Zsolt Gréczy because my ten-year-old son knows more about Hungarian history than you do, Mr Gréczy. I think that Sándor Sajó is one of the Hungarian poets from the highlands who best expressed the difficulties of Hungarian history, what it's like to be a Hungarian person when he wrote that being Hungarian is a proud beauty! / To be Hungarian is great and holy will, / which here trembles under the Carpathians. And in the last hundred years, our Hungarians across the border must have felt it very, very much, and they can feel it to this day. [[15.00]] And although we have tried to do a lot of things, especially after 2010, that the feeling of national solidarity, that we are a nation, can reach everyone beyond the border, there is still work to be done. I know that there are people who can say things against what we are doing, and they have not even voted for the true form of unification, or dual citizenship, but I am asking them to vote for this law there, too, towards DK. On June 4, 1920, an unjust peace dictatorship was forced upon us. Since 1920, the authorities who forced us to do this have never apologized to us, at least their leaders have not apologized to us. I think, unfortunately, we can't expect them to apologize today, and we can't expect the Hungarian nation to get justice from these nations. What we can expect is that we Hungarians, together together, are trying to fix everything that the Western powers measured on us in 1920. There may be several forms of this: dual citizenship, such a form of this national commemorative year, and of course this is what we are trying to provide to our Hungarians across the border. I trust that everything we do today will serve what the Hungarians have to do: a thousand years from now in the Carpathian Basin, just like today, all Hungarians can say that we are the largest nation here, in a thousand years the Carpathian Basin should be loud with the Hungarian word, and that we should be in charge of this pool. I think that is what we should do for all those who claim to be Hungarians. I believe that this law, which applies to the Memorial Year, also serves this purpose. I hope that in the commemorative year, apart from the fact that there will be a lot of union day fights, we will not forget that 1920 has created a national day of mourning after all. One day we mourn, and all the rest of the year I hope we will join together and encourage each other that in a thousand years' time we will be the largest nation in the Carpathian Basin, just like today, and the Carpathian Basin will be loud with Hungarian words. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-28-120	A two-minute speech is now possible. This is what Congressman Zsolt Gréczy is doing. Here you go.
u2019-05-28-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, I actually have to. I don't know what sentence Mr. Happy found historically wrong [[Happy Stephen: In all of them!]] I even tried chronologically to be faithful to historical facts. I would like to remind you that a man who stands up with a pátos will put on a red-white-green flag and recite poems, there will be no bigger Hungarian than the one who knows the same thing, but does not want to represent himself with this. The other one. You were obviously not a Fidesz voter in 1990, and I would be very surprised, because you would obviously have thrown your slippers at the TV when Viktor Orbán told us to stand up and march out, because that word was said from the mouth of an official of the Antall administration that it was Trianon. [[György Szilágyi will be replaced by Gergely Arató in the notary seat.]] I would like to remind you that in 2001 on behalf of the first Orbán government, János Martonyi, Minister of Foreign Affairs, assured the Venice Commission that the Orbán government did not introduce dual citizenship, that there is no such purpose, and in 2004 Fidesz did not have such a purpose, but on the initiative of the World Federation of Hungarians, and then Gyula Thürmer, Fidesz, which became what happened. But even after that, it was said that this dual citizenship would also have voting rights, and then the right to vote came, and now we know that some Hungarians across the border can vote differently than Hungarians across the border who are working across the border and call it election fraud. Nevertheless, we consider national cohesion to be important, but I thought we should do so in chronological terms, because I also remember the history of recent times crystal clear. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: Slide!]]
u2019-05-28-122	What I see cannot yet be seen by you, so I will tell you, and I must ask you, would anyone else like to take the opportunity to speak, because I do not see a speaker. [[No signal coming through.]] There's no such thing. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the author if you'd like to reflect. Mr. President? [[On the sign of Charles Panczél:]] The word belongs to Charles Panczél, please.
u2019-05-28-123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Very briefly, because the majority of speakers agreed with the proposal for a decision tabled by the committee. Respecting and heeding Mr President's request not to engage in historical debates here, we really have nothing to discuss with the Gyurcsány Party about history, nation and national cohesion. National traitors and traitors since December 5, 2004 know this in domestic, foreign, border and beyond, in sporadics, diaspora, island and everywhere. There's nothing to talk about. On behalf of the submitting committee, thank you for the support of the other speakers, there will be a detailed debate and a final vote here in Parliament. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-28-124	I would like to inform you that it is possible to submit the amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill on legislative provisions for the regulation of livestock farming until closure. The government referral is T/6190. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas, Secretary of State of the Agricultural Ministry, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2019-05-28-125	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, CHAPTER XXI The role of agriculture and food production is increasingly appreciated in centuries of civilization, not only because this sector has to supply food to the growing population, but also because the modern economy has a major role to play in shaping the cultural landscape, preserving biodiversity, protecting the environment and safeguarding natural values. It is expected that we will produce the necessary food in an efficient and sustainable manner. Hungarian agriculture performs well in all these areas. The output of agriculture has been increasing year after year since 2010, and last year it was nearly HUF 3000 billion in value. Farmers are making increasingly significant green commitments, while the priority protection of our domestic plant and animal species of high biological value, and of our species, increases agro-biodiversity. Within all these systems, the government and the specialised management pay particular attention to livestock production, and we are also on the right track in this area. The output of livestock production in 2018 was 943 billion forints, with a 57 percent increase in current prices since 2010, which is worth the EU's top priority. In 2018, our growth was broad, since the production of all major animal species exceeded the previous year's values. In order to maintain its competitiveness, further development of the sector and the progressive regulation of the activities of livestock farmers and keepers are essential. We also have an important task in the preservation and development of genetic foundations. Animal genetic resources are now becoming increasingly important among non-renewable natural resources. A possible disappearance of a variety, if any, would also result in the permanent loss of the genetic material determining its properties, which is no longer reconstructable and irreplaceable. [[15.10]] It is therefore essential to maintain, maintain, develop and modernise the genetic value of biological funds, animal species, animal species and their reproductive material in order to maintain biodiversity, to achieve our agricultural production goals in the long term and to ensure continuity of production. Animal husbandry, this strategically important agricultural area, has been regulated by a law created in 1993. 26-year legislation is no longer able to provide a modern framework that fully meets current requirements for animal husbandry and conservation of genetic resources. So now is the time to make a change, which is also expected by the representatives of the profession. At the same time, we also have EU legislative harmonisation tasks in this area. The relevant regulations of the European Union have also been renewed and are already directly applicable in all Member States and legislation on new and harmonised animal husbandry should therefore be published as soon as possible. The preparatory work has been carried out at the Ministry of Agriculture. Together with the judicial wallet, the final text of the bill was drawn up, which the honourable Members of the Parliament could learn. In the spirit of simpler and more transparent regulation, only the subjects for which legislation was absolutely necessary were included in the law. In all other cases, legislation at the level of government decrees or ministerial decrees was realistic. It helps to interpret and implement the development and submission of the draft law and the draft government regulation together. I am convinced that a new law and a related government regulation can be created that meets the requirements of today's times, helps to enforce the interests of the sector and is in line with changing EU legislation. The primary objective of the legislation was to protect the values and interests of our breeders and breeding organisation, as well as the conservation of genetic resources and our protected indigenous and endangered species of agricultural species of high value. With legislative changes, I see the preservation of genetic resources and their diversity, the improvement of the competitiveness of the sector by supporting high-quality breeding work, the modern regulation of breed maintenance work of breeding organisations, the progressive regulation of the production, distribution and use of animal reproductive material, the reliability of the collection, recording and processing of breeding data and the compliance with international challenges. Dear House, On the basis of what has been said, I would ask the Honourable Parliament to proceed with their comments and later with their vote on the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-05-28-126	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First up, Mr Font Sándor, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2019-05-28-127	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. The bill presented by the Secretary of State means updating a livestock law that has been alive since 93; we reach this area after 26 years, and we are trying to comply with an EU harmonisation obligation; an EU legislation on the use of reproductive material and other provisions for breeding animals was adopted in 2016, which should be harmonised by the Member States. This is, among other things, the purpose of the submitted draft law. It is clear that we are setting objectives in the livestock law to protect animal genetic resources, but we also want biodiversity to be sustainable, the aim of agricultural production can be achieved and the continuity of production can be ensured. This is a complex task, so that all these goals can be achieved, guidelines, regulations, prohibitions are included in the proposal. As the Secretary of State said, serious preparations have been made, as is customary, with the involvement of livestock farming organisations, organisations that maintain protected and indigenous animals. Of course, it may be necessary to clarify in small details, but we believe, and if the news was observed, you know that there was no speaker of relevant livestock farmers, native animals, who would disagree with this line. So we believe that it will also be included among those involved if Parliament accepts the proposal. Let me draw your attention to 1. § (2) and (3). Paragraph (2) says: For agricultural purposes, it is prohibited to produce a genetically modified animal species. , paragraph 3 is also very important, I think, in terms of agriculture and animal farming in Hungary:, cloning an animal unless otherwise provided for in law. I highlighted these two paragraphs separately because it is well known that Hungary has been at the forefront since 2006 of the fact that we cannot use the propagating material of GMOs and genetically modified plant organs, and we cannot continue such cultivation. The success of this is now quite beautiful, as we can absolutely guarantee that the varieties of plants produced here are like this. So those who buy this are very large exporters, they are asking for this certainty, and more and more people are now asking because the majority of residents, consumers, want to eat GMO-free food. That's the trend we're seeing. So it was an extremely important decision to make this prohibition in the field of crop production. It is confirmed here that the production of genetically modified animal species for agricultural purposes is prohibited. This is the partner of this Hungarian position. Let me mention that we have a problem. Although GMO cultivation is prohibited in Hungary, imports of such products are not prohibited, we cannot do this without violating the principle of free movement of goods. It is not forbidden or prohibited, so GMO plants, propagating material, feed materials can be imported and some use it. As a consequence, if animals raised in Hungary consume GMO feed, processed meat products made from it cannot be designated as GMO-free. For the fourth or fifth year now, the Agricultural Ministry, with the support of the Fidesz-KDNP fraction, has set the goal of replacing the GMO import feed material for feed materials produced in Hungary with a high protein demand. I could say that the initial steps have been made. We had great surprises in store for this program. Just for the record, we have been running up the production of soya in Hungary with special support, because soya would be one of the best uses of plant protein to feed animals. At the same time, we managed so well because we produce GMO-free soy in Hungary, and in the world it hardly produces GMO-free soy, so that it can be sold 30 percent more expensive on the world market. As a result, the whole GMO-free soya produced in Hungary was exported to the producers, so it was not used to feed animals in Hungary. I could say that this is a big success on one side, but we have faced another task that we need to solve. If we succeeded in feeding animals raised in Hungary with GMO-free feed, then we would be the first country in the world to justify GMO-free cultivation as well as in livestock production, and we could then justify GMO-free treatment for food processed from animals. This is a market position which has not yet been reached by any other country. [[15.20]] I may have analyzed this deeper than other parts of the law because a silent sentence is that it is forbidden to produce genetic material for agricultural purposes. Besides, there's a huge debate, ethical and moral debate going on. But we want exactly the opposite. Not only do we not want to produce this species, but we do not even want to feed the Hungarian animals with GMO feed. And, of course, this is where the education of our native animal species is linked. There are separate genetic separation, research programs. For example, in the area of Kiskunsági National Park, there are extremely promising data with flocks of grey cattle and buffaloes, very beautiful physical areas, so that these native animals can live in this area and these genetic developments can be implemented there. The law concerns, inter alia, the management, use and protection of these genetic reproductive material. I believe, on behalf of the Fidesz fraction, that the draft law meets all the objectives that we consider important for the further high standards of animal husbandry in Hungary and for the increasingly evaluated Hungarian livestock production in the world. We would like to strengthen animal genetic resources, clarify the use of animal reproductive material, prohibit and authorise, if necessary, the manner in which all those working and undertaking in this area can do so. And it is obvious that we also want to promote breeding work and the work of breeders' organisations. This is indicated by further proposals, sentences, legislative texts, which, as I mentioned, were made with the involvement of the breed societies concerned. I therefore believe that we can offer and support with a calm heart the presentation of the Government and the Agricultural Ministry and that we will want to vote on it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2019-05-28-128	Thank you very much. Mr. Zoltán Magyar, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2019-05-28-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. I will start by suggesting to the Jobbik faction that we support this bill, because we agree with its purpose and with most of its contents. But I'm feeling a little over the top of the line. If this is really the comprehensive reform and renewal of the animal husbandry law adopted 26 years ago, then there are problems here. What if, say, there had been no obligation to harmonise EU legislation? We wouldn't have touched it now, and we wouldn't have broken that law? But, of course, it will also be appropriate to explain these in amendments later, and I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State, as a question, whether there are any amendments, plans, or whether they felt that this was the case. Speaking of GMOs, we agree with this, of course, although we consider it an unnecessary doubling in this law, but obviously due to the importance of the case, it is lenient. But I would add that the national protein programme is not only a four to five-year theme and has started quite slowly, although there are really positive signs, but there are also many years of government promise to try to make progress in the marking system and to fight a right in the EU to separate GMO products from free products in a sufficiently conspicuous or even separate shelf. There have also been a number of ministerial, secretary-general and committee debates in this regard. Unfortunately, I don't see any progress in this. Now that, according to preliminary reports, Fidesz's lobbying or advocacy is likely to be significantly reduced in the European Union, I do not see how this is going to be achieved. However, it would be very important that when the customer makes a decision and wants to make a conscious decision, there really should be a way to do so. It would also be good to make some progress in this regard, since the two things could complement themselves, strengthen themselves, and be effective in practice. Article 2 § (1) has a 150-day administration period to mention another example, which I think should be amended. I think it would be a significant reduction in the time of administration here. This is 2nd floor. I mean, for 90 days, if that's possible there, I think it's possible in this case, too. At first reading, I noticed that he had appointed an animal husbandry authority, which was then clarified by a decree. What were they thinking? Because the speech by the secretary of state and the lead speaker of Fidesz didn't tell us whether it was the Nebih or the government office. But in fact, it doesn't matter, because both authorities, both bodies, do not have a livestock inspector, their specialists are already so overwhelmed that they will certainly not be able to perform these additional tasks, in any way. This must therefore be resolved at least by the date of the regulation or the date of its entry into force. I'm sure neither the Nébih nor the government will be able to provide it properly in this way. He even came in from the breeders' associations, and not only to me, I understand you have a kind of concern or fear that a breed can now be represented and represented by several breeders' organizations and associations. What will guarantee that the fault, possible professional or any mistake of such an association will not harm the particular breed, even at national level? I am sure you have thought of this, because you have obviously consulted with these associations, but I would certainly like to have a reassuring answer on this. In conclusion, some of our amendments will be certain, but, as I said, overall, we agree with the objectives, but we should have gone further. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President.
u2019-05-28-130	Thank you, Congressman. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, head speaker of the MSZP. Here.
u2019-05-28-131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll be very brief. I would like to point out that the MSZP faction is also in favour of this proposal. I have one question for the Secretary of State: why did it come in this way, which Sándor Font also said was to clone animals, unless otherwise provided by law, is it forbidden? What kind of legal case could there be where the law provides that animals can be cloned in Hungary? In addition, we believe that this is a provision that is useful and good, and therefore the MSZP faction will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2019-05-28-132	Thank you very much. Member György Czerván, representative of Fidesz, is the first speaker after the main speaker. Here you go.
u2019-05-28-133	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, The joint efforts of the government and farmers led to positive processes in Hungarian agriculture after 2010. The output of agriculture has started to grow dynamically, reaching the forefront of Europe, and through this, agriculture has contributed to GDP growth for several years. Our agricultural exports have increased year after year, and their balance has also been steadily improved. The structure of agricultural emissions has also become more favourable, as there has been a slight increase in livestock production. The latter fact is also highly appreciated because the economic processes in the world have not spared domestic livestock production. Market crises have been at odds with each other, and they have been effectively overcome by the sector. For example, domestic data are particularly remarkable in cattle farming, which is said to be the heavy industry for livestock farming. Cattle, including cows, have been growing ever since 2010, although the business of beef farmers has been severely affected by market demand and the lives of dairy farmers have been hampered by the milk market crisis over the years. Let me also draw the attention of my fellow Members to the role of livestock farming in employment. According to the latest farm structure survey, almost 3,000 economic organizations and some 260 thousand individual farms were involved in animal farming or farming. These farms have given a main or supplementary action to half a million people, families. From an economic point of view, we can talk about an important, growing animal husbandry in Hungary, keeping pace with European development. The operation of a modern sector requires modern legal frameworks. The animal husbandry law and its implementing regulations, which were created 26 years ago, are now ripe for renewal. The framework for this is, of course, laid down in the EU regulation, to which we must align with legislative harmonisation. [[15.30]] However, there should also be a legal framework for the organisation of farming rules for animals of animal species not regulated by Community law, as EU law only regulates the breeding of bovine, buffalo, sheep, goats, horses, asses and pigs. It is therefore necessary to establish full national rules for animal species not regulated by other Community law, which, of course, should not conflict with other EU rules, in particular with its competition rules. We must also pay particular attention to the protection of our country's genetic resources and protected, indigenous and endangered agricultural species with high genetic value. We also need to provide opportunities for cross-border breed society activities, but according to our plans it will only be possible to do so within a regulated framework, under the control of the domestic breeding authority. The government's intention to protect domestic breeding organisation and the interests of domestic breeders is also included in the draft law. Dear Parliament, However, the proposal before you is a novel document that meets the expectations of modern legislation. It was born in the spirit of deregulation, i.e. only subjects that could not be regulated by legislation at a lower level from a legal, professional point of view. A modern draft law, which provides a framework for modern animal husbandry, has therefore been drawn up, which, of course, I propose to support, and will be supported by our group. We ask for your support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-05-28-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, No one's applied for a two-minute speech. I don't see a normal word applicant on the monitor, so I respectfully ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting. Sándor Wolf rises to speak.]] Hold on, for now, Mr. Secretary, we're with the congressmen. As Secretary of State, you will be given the floor immediately, as soon as I have concluded the debate, and since no one has applied for further speeches, I will now do so. So, Mr. Secretary of State has the floor, please.
u2019-05-28-135	Thank you very much. Mr President, I would like to respond in a few words to the questions or thoughts raised. My fellow Member, Mr Font, provided us with detailed information on the GMO exemption, and I think that this is a very good direction, as we have arranged in our Fundamental Law, and the suggestions that not only in relation to animal genetics, but also in relation to plant genetics, only feed that is truly GMO-free should be used in the coming period, but I would like to point out that with the appropriate support, the soy area will continue to grow in the production structure of Hungarian farmers with which we can meet this task or this objective within a few years. When we talk about irrigation development, it is clear that plants that can implement the plan, the idea of feeding as much GMO-free feed as possible together with irrigation, irrigation potential, and not least with the protein programme, will be identified as a priority. This will really achieve the goal of removing genetically modified plants and animals from the entire verticum once and for all. Unfortunately, we still need a few years to do this, and here I would just like to refer to my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, that hopefully the moment when these goods, these products will be fully recognised, and these goods will appear prominently and safely on the shelves and on the markets, on separate shelves, with a special designation for consumers. Thank you, Fidesz, for your support in supporting this law. I thank Congressman Czerván for what he said, and it is indeed a modern law, unusually modern, relatively trying to regulate the work of a large, wide sector by law, but at the most important legislative level. And this is complemented by a series of very serious government and ministerial decrees. Here, too, I would like to refer to the Law 9. Article 5a, where it clearly defines the mandate of the Government and which subjects of regulation it should be subject to, followed by the mandate of the Minister, which will also specify in detail what task, which rules should be laid down in which regulation. I believe that this will make it much easier to apply the law at a later stage. To raise and question Mr Mesterházy: this concerns research and experimental purposes, so not specific work as a breeder, I think this is also a very important issue. And last but not least, I will go back to my fellow Member Zoltán Magyar's comment on the role of advocacy. I think that in politics we cannot just bypass politics in a professional law, but I am curious how the very, very dwindled Jobbik Group will be able to represent interests in the European Union. We're in the same place or even stronger than before. So thank you for asking. Thank you very much for the contributions of my fellow Members, and I would like to continue to ask for their support in the adoption of the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-05-28-136	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on the publication of the extradition agreement between Hungary and the Federative Republic of Brazil will follow. Government referral T/6183. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr János Bóka, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, author. Here you go.
u2019-05-28-137	Thank you. Mr President, Dear House, The purpose of the bill before you is to recognise and publish the binding effect of the extradition agreement between Hungary and the Federal Republic of Brazil with its authentic text in Hungarian and English. There are currently multilateral legal aid agreements in force between Hungary and Brazil, but these only cover specific criminal offences. Today, in most cases, criminal cooperation is only possible under the internal law of the two countries. The purpose of the Convention is therefore to establish a general legal framework for extradition between Hungary and Brazil. The conclusion of the agreement is of Hungarian interest, because although the volume of legal aid traffic is moderate, in general Hungary is seeking extradition from Brazil. By concluding the extradition agreement, cooperation between the Brazilian party will be much more effective. The Convention defines the scope of extradition offences, the mandatory and reasonable grounds for refusing extradition, sets out the central authorities designated to send and receive extradition requests, the content and the mandatory annexes to the extradition request, and settles cases of transfer to a third State or of conflict of extradition requests. The Convention also provides for the application of the principle of speciality, the temporary arrest, the transfer of the person or the deferral of the transfer, the temporary extradition institution and transit. The Convention includes the necessary provisions on confiscation and transfer of objects, cost bearing, data protection, relation to other international treaties and dispute resolution. The Convention was signed in Budapest on 9 May 2019. The Convention shall enter into force only after its ratification and publication in accordance with the national law of the States Parties. It is necessary to publish the Convention in Hungary by law, as it regulates issues that affect the fundamental rights and obligations of citizens. On issues not covered by the conventions, the 1996 XXXVIII on international legal assistance in criminal matters will continue to apply in Hungary. The provisions of the Act shall remain applicable. [[15.40]] Dear Parliament, It is in our clear interest to ensure that the Hungarian criminal demand is enforced as widely as possible, and that those who committed crimes in Hungary should not find refuge in the largest country on the South American continent. The provisions of the convention before you comply with the internationally accepted standards of modern extradition agreements and are in line with the Hungarian legal order in force. In light of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-28-138	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First we can hear the thoughts of Zoltán Fenyvesi, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2019-05-28-139	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The international treaty before us was intended to enable Hungary and the Federative Republic of Brazil to establish more effective legal cooperation to prevent crimes between the two states, in particular with respect to the sovereignty and equality of the parties. The bill confirms the relationship between the two States with regard to criminal cooperation, and accordingly both Hungary and the Brazilian Federal Republic issue those persons present in their territory who are sought by the judicial authorities of the other Party for the purpose of prosecuting or executing the deprivation of liberty in a court-ordered final judgment. The international treaty specifies extradition offences, binding and reasonable grounds for refusing extradition, content elements, conditions for temporary extradition arrest, transfer of objects found in wanted persons, decisions related to the request, transit, and cost-bearing, data protection and warranty rules. During the implementation of the Convention, the central authorities designated by our countries contact each other directly, so the Hungarian and Brazilian ministries of justice are the executives of communication and communication. The extradition agreement was signed in Budapest on 9 May 2019, its articles comply with the internationally accepted provisions of the modern extradition conventions and the Hungarian laws in force. Thank you for your kind attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-05-28-140	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, head speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2019-05-28-141	Thank you very much. I would like to tell the Secretary of State that the MSZP fraction will support this proposal. Thank you.
u2019-05-28-142	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, would you like to reflect? [[For signal:]] Before you do that, I'll ask if anyone wants to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The general debate is closed, and then, Mr Secretary of State, if you wish to speak, do so now.
u2019-05-28-143	I do not wish to react, but I thank you for your supporting contributions on behalf of the government.
u2019-05-28-144	Thank you very much. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Lao People's Democratic Republic on the publication of an agreement on the reciprocal visa waiver of their nationals with diplomatic and service passports until closure follows. The government referral is T/6184. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, author. Here you go.
u2019-05-28-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, In 1979, an agreement on diplomatic and service passports was reached between Hungary and the Lao People's Democratic Republic, which was not finally announced, and a very long time has passed since then, so the two countries decided to conclude a new agreement aimed at ensuring visa-free entry for holders of diplomatic and service passports in Hungary and Laos and a visa-free stay of up to 90 days in Hungary and Laos. Following detailed expert discussions, the final text of the agreement was established, and the Prime Minister's decision in March gave the mandate to Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Péter Szijjártó to sign the agreement with the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Laos. This happened on 11 March in Budapest. We believe that this international agreement is an important tool for increasing the potential of Hungarian interest in the region, and that the government promotion is for achieving this government goal, so I ask this House to adopt the proposed bill. Thank you very much.
u2019-05-28-146	Thank you very much. There are speeches to be made by the Chief Speech. Congresswoman Mária Kállai, lead speaker of the Fidesz. Here you go.
u2019-05-28-147	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, This short bill indeed replaces a failure, since the partial visa waiver of 79, which concerned diplomatic and service passports, was signed but not published. With this current law, we are outlawing the former law of 79, which in fact did not put into effect, and we can practically bring the new one into effect as an EU member. What is new is virtually nothing, but there can be an arrangement between the two countries that remains pending. In fact, this symbolic step makes it possible, as the Secretary of State said, to make it easier to enter between diplomats in the two countries than it is now, which can obviously facilitate a mutual relationship with an emerging East Asian country. The country with seven million inhabitants is a member of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, and is also a member of the World Trade Organisation, Laos, and can be an additional trading partner for us in the neighbourhood of Vietnam. If you read a little bit about it, it is a young society, and it has to be said that it is characterised by seven percent annual economic growth that brings it to Asia's fastest growing economies. Today's short speakerial idea does not aim to analyse the country's data, but it can be said in any way that their data is very good, and that the country has made a lot of progress since 1986, since the private sector became supported here. With all due respect, I would like to ask my fellow Members to facilitate the construction of our relations with this open state for Hungary, and to vote on the mutual abolition of visa requirements for diplomatic and service passports, thus actually settling an old diplomatic debt towards them and ourselves. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2019-05-28-148	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, head speaker of the MSZP.
u2019-05-28-149	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Easier; therefore, the MSZP fraction will support this proposal. I am smiling a little bit, because in the meantime I looked at the fact that, if I remember correctly, we only have an honorary consul in Hungary, the last Hungarian head of state was in the country in 1984, we never visited Laos at prime minister level, but not even the Prime Minister of Laos has been in Hungary since 1976. So there's still room for improvement. Thank you very much.
u2019-05-28-150	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to speak up? [[There's no candidate.]] I note that no, so the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to reflect. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2019-05-28-151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just one sentence: thank you very much for the support of the factions, and indeed, if there is room for improvement, we will move forward in the future. Thank you very much.
u2019-05-28-152	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The general discussion of the bill between the Government of Hungary and the International Telecommunications Association on the organisation, organisation and financing of the ITU Telecom World 2019 event on the publication of the agreement with the host country until closure. The government referral is T/6185. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, is next on the agenda. Here you go.
u2019-05-28-153	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, In addition to political, economic and security changes, we are also witnessing rapid technological changes, including in the field of information communication, and our endeavour is to be not only followers and viewers of these changes, but also shapers. The work and tradition of Tivadar Puskás and János Neumann in the field of telephony and computing oblige us to do so. The International Telecommunications Association is one of the most important global institutions operating in the field of infocommunications, and currently has nearly 700 associated sectoral members in 193 Member States. [[15.50]] And we are proud that Hungary joined its predecessor, the International Telegraphy Association, which was founded in Paris in 1865 as one of the first 20 founding Member States on 1 January 1866. This ITU Telecom World is a global event where developers of information and communication technologies, government actors, regulators and industry actors meet at a multi-day conference. This is the second time in Hungary, in Hungary, after 2010, and the successful settlement in 2015 drew the attention of the actors in the infocommunications sector to Hungary, thus strengthening the ability of the Hungarian economy to attract capital, which we are proud of. This event basically serves the foreign policy goal of promoting our country's weight by consistently representing Hungarian interests in international forums and bilateral relations. I ask this House to support the bill that has been tabled.
u2019-05-28-154	Thank you very much. There are speeches to be made by the Chief Speech. Congresswoman Mary Kállai, Fidesz!
u2019-05-28-155	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I think we all agree that technology development, innovation, is indeed a key factor in economic growth today. In Hungary, it has to be said that we currently owe almost one fifth of the gross national product to the fast-growing digital economy. This is why it is a very important achievement that the government has submitted a successful tender for the International Telecommunications Association's conference ITU Telecom World 2019. The International Telecommunications Association is the UN's 150-year-old world-renowned organization, as Mr. State Secretary said. The organisation's event series ITU Telecom World is set up in order to ensure that there really is a platform where the governments of the Member States, large infocommunication companies and representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises can meet. Mr Secretary of State pointed out that from 193 states there are nearly 700 member organisations, and this forum offers an extraordinary opportunity to deepen relations, to move forward in a professional way. The good news is that after 2015, this will be the second time that our country can host this prestigious conference. Four years ago, more than 4,000 participants from 129 countries participated in the same event, and the successful organisation obviously also drew the attention of the main players in the sector to the potential of our country in this respect. And this is certainly a strong attraction for foreign investors as well, and I believe that the very positive feedback is sure that it has played a decisive role in the fact that the association has once again given us the right to hospitality. The conference will take place in the Hungexpo fair centre in Budapest from 9-12 September. And it is obvious that ITU already has the governance structure to create such an event. According to the current forecasts, 5 to 6 thousand company representatives from some 130 countries are expected to participate in this year, more than 200 government and industry leaders, and are likely to pay tribute to 30 to 50 ministers. The Government of Hungary is responsible for providing the necessary infrastructure for the operation, with both marketing and diplomacy tools to support the promotion of the event. We believe that the solidarity of the international community is key to the development of the national, Hungarian infocommunications sector. This year will focus on the role of SMEs in the sector, cloud-based solutions, smart city, the development of 5 G. It is clear that it is important for businesses to be able to connect to the international circulation of the sector and benefit from the results of the technology. The Hungarian government is trying to promote this by providing space for world-class professional discourse. Of course, the Fidesz Group welcomes the Government's decision to once again give a chance for a very wide-ranging, very prestigious professional audience to listen to the results and opportunities of the Hungarian infocommunication technology. I respectfully ask for the support of the bill. Thank you.
u2019-05-28-156	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP!
u2019-05-28-157	Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is indeed good that if such an international event comes to Hungary, it just seems a little expensive for us to organise such an event on the basis of the 2015 experience, as all costs are charged to the Hungarian government, thus to the taxpayers, and if I remember correctly, it cost billions of HUF to conduct this event. While its benefits can indeed be quantified, it is relatively difficult to do so because it is indeed, as the Secretary of State has said, to what extent, to what extent, to what extent it draws attention, what opportunities it brings. It is certainly good for the tourism sector, because hotels must be booked. Therefore, the world is losing interest in organising international events under these conditions, as fewer and fewer countries want to spend so much money on such events. However, for my part, I could or could support this initiative for foreign policy reasons, but the faction has decided that, as before, we will press the, I will abstain, after an analysis of the advantages and disadvantages mentioned above. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your attention.
u2019-05-28-158	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask him if there's anyone else who'd like to tell me. [[There's no such signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the author if you'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-05-28-159	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Only one thought: in Hungary, the digital economy produces 20 percent of GDP, and we are at the forefront of this in Europe. Small and medium-sized enterprises are the focus of the event, the 5 G technology. I think it is very difficult to calculate the concern of the Member for me, quantifying the advantages and disadvantages and putting them in figures, because there is more than just one area, and not just one year, for such an event. I think that, in the long term and in general, Hungary can be so central to this event that it will certainly be useful to Hungary and the Hungarian people. Thank you very much.
u2019-05-28-160	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The Convention establishing the International Organisation for Mobile Satellites and its amendment for 2008 are hereby published in London, 16 October 1985, and the Agreement on the use of inmarsat ground stations on the use of vessels in territorial waters and ports is hereby published and published by the European Communications Office. joint general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Convention on the establishment of the Convention until closure. Government referrals T/6189, T/6186 and T/6187. available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. Ákos Kara, State Secretary of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author. Here you go.
u2019-05-28-161	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The unwavering development of communications and informatics provides many opportunities and tools for the citizens of Hungary to benefit from digitalisation as much as possible. In previous years and at present, the government has supported and supported a number of programmes and objectives aimed at enabling all citizens and businesses of Hungary, like the Hungarian economy as a whole, to win digitalisation. In creating and developing the necessary physical infrastructure for this, our country is at the forefront at European and global level, I can safely say. For example, the second phase of the, super-fast internet programme, called SZIP 2.0, was launched in January this year, so the goal of the Super-fast Internet 2.0 is to build communication networks suitable for at least 100 megabit/secundums but capable of expanding to gigabit bandwidth in Hungary. The Hungarian 4 G network, the Hungarian 4 G mobile network, is among the best in the world based on average download speed, and the fifth generation mobile network was launched in Hungary in 2019. In recent weeks and days, you have seen that a new era has begun in the 5 G area of Hungary in terms of development. Ladies and gentlemen, I would not particularly like to emphasise the importance of international cooperation, but I would just like to point out that the three legislative proposals that we have ahead of us strengthen international cooperation. The three conventions presented are international treaties. During the preliminary expert discussions, we were able to provide information to all parties to whom information had to be provided, and therefore, according to the law on the procedure for international contracts, they should be published at legal level. [[16.00]] The proposals we are discussing are aimed at the publication of agreements by law and the formal notification of them to the depositary. In view of all this, I respectfully ask my fellow Members to support the legislative proposals before us. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2019-05-28-162	Thank you very much. We are now going to have keynote speeches, first of all, Mrs Maria Kállai, Member of the Council, Fidesz.
u2019-05-28-163	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, We have three priority international treaties ahead of us. The first bill discusses the international agreement establishing the International Mobile Satellite Organization, which was established in 1976, and the International Maritime Satellite Organization. The agreement was substantially amended in 1998, resulting in a change in its structure, of course. With the 2008 amendments, its tasks have been further expanded, including the extension of the oversight of the general maritime emergency and safety system to other potential satellite operators and the designation of the organisation by the International Maritime Organisation as coordinator of the long-range ship identification and tracking system. The measures necessary for the implementation of the law and the representation of Hungary at the General Assembly of the International Satellite Telecommunications Organisation are provided by the President of the NMHH. Hungary joined the second international treaty on 3 March 2000. In 1985, the International Satellite Organization established an agreement on the use of INMARSAT ground stations on ships in territorial waters and ports. Under the so-called SES agreement, ground stations must comply with the International Telecommunications Association's Radio Regulations for emergency and security purposes only. The SES agreement does not cover ships carrying out military and governmental duties. That Agreement entered into force on 12 September 1993. Finally, let us talk about the Convention on the Establishment of a European Communications Office. Hungary has been a member of the European Communications Office (ECO) Convention and its predecessors since 1987. According to the Convention, ECO is involved in identifying problems in communications and their possibilities for solving them, with the aim of facilitating effective cooperation between European Communications Directorates and the harmonious development of the telecommunications market. The amendment to the Convention was adopted by the ECO Council in Copenhagen on 23 November 2011. I respectfully ask my fellow Members, of course, with the support of our group, to adopt this proposal in the future. Thank you very much.
u2019-05-28-164	Thank you very much. Congressman Csaba Gyüre, lead speaker of Jobbik, please.
u2019-05-28-165	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We have three bill proposals before us, from which there seems to be something that would affect Hungary, since it is mostly about tracking maritime ships and their work with security alarms. Unfortunately, this would not affect Hungary, but it does, and I will explain why it concerns Hungary and why we joined this system as eight-fourth. This is the International Maritime Satellite Organization INMARSAT, which was established in 1979 with the cooperation of 83 countries, and, as I said, we joined it as eight-fourth. Its aim is to establish a marine communication network with 100% reliability for life-saving and safety purposes. Today, too, hundreds of thousands of people use this system that was built in the world at that time. Safety of navigation, safety of transport are obviously a priority, and communication is the priority if there is a problem. It's obviously today, the 21st. 1st century and XX. The world has made great progress in this area under technical conditions at the end of the century. How does this system work today? I'd like to say a few words about that, too. Today, INMARSAT has a satellite fleet orbiting the Earth on a geostationary orbit, orbiting 36,000 kilometers above the equator, and it's constantly at the same point, so it's moving exactly at Earth's rotation speed or that much faster because it's 36,000 kilometers out, but these satellites are moving at exactly the same point. We are talking about three satellites that provide this service on Earth, 12 satellites on the ground, but three perform this service, the other reserve and other service providers. These three satellites are about the same distance apart, and they can see the Earth at an angle of 120 degrees and beam in almost the entire surface of the Earth by these three satellites. INMARSAT has made great progress, it is already operating on a market basis in 2018, but it had an income of 1.5 billion US dollars and 1500 employees. What does this system know today? He knows general telephone and data transmission, he knows wide bandwidth internet, guaranteed bandwidth uploads, and video-conferencing conversations, so what modern times require, he knows everything. The disadvantage of this system is that there are satellites orbiting on orbits near Earth and those on orbits far from Earth, that this is a course far from Earth. The orbit near Earth is 700 kilometers away and 1,500 kilometers away, which are much cheaper. This is much more expensive, but this has much more coverage. Well, there's one more advantage to these satellites. The low coverages do not rotate with Earth's rotation speed, so another satellite is constantly receiving the radiation, in which case the signal will reach later, or the signals will have to be received by another satellite, and the satellites will continue to transmit to each other as to whose territory the signaler or receiver is in, thus causing problems. There is no need to pay attention to the change of satellites here, as that area is constantly being beamed in by these satellites, and these three all carry out this task around the Earth. The disadvantage is that, on the one hand, it is expensive because it is very far away from Earth, and on the other, it has so many problems that the corners, the South Pole and the Arctic cannot be beamed in by this system. Why did we need him? Why did we join this when it was intended primarily to serve shipping in the first moments? For the first time in Hungary, this service was used by Hungarocamion because satellite tracking of vehicles became important and important from a criminal point of view, and ORFK also took over it, since stolen vehicles with GPS trackers can be tracked through this system, and obviously in places where the Internet service is not suitable or mobile, because there is no coverage, mobile phones can be managed through the satellite system. For example, MOL's specialists used it when they were doing research abroad in areas where the mobile phone network was not yet built, so they were able to interact with each other through this system. So satellite phone calls are now a relatively cheaper thing, and you can make phone calls throughout the Earth in this form, so you can transfer data, video recording, conference conversation, everything can be done through this system. So it is very useful that Hungary joined this system at the time, and in this connection it should be supported in all forms, which is development and accession from Hungary to this system. In addition, there is also the Convention on the Establishment of a European Communications Office, the ECO Convention. The European Conference of Postal and Telecommunications Directorates has decided that this is necessary. They wanted to set up a permanent office for electronic communications, which is a professional-expert organisation for post and electronic communications. It aims to promote effective cooperation between European telecommunications administrations and the harmonious development of the telecommunications market. It's XX again. The end of the 20th century, the 21st century The beginning of the 20th century, so there is a need for improvements in this direction, cooperation in this direction, coordination of professional advice, and therefore it is necessary in any way that Hungary participates in developments and developments in this area. Therefore, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary also supports the implementation and entry into force of the publication of all three conventions. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-05-28-166	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, head speaker of the MSZP.
u2019-05-28-167	Thank you very much. Congressman Gyure has summarized so well and in detail why it is worth supporting this proposal, so I would not repeat that. However, I would like to repeat what you said last, only with another party: the group of MSZP will also support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2019-05-28-168	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Anybody else want to tell me? Which would be surprising, since there is no one in the room but the speakers. [[No signal.]] [[16.10]] Therefore, as no other additional Members have made themselves known, the joint general debate is closed. I'll ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State, if you'd like to reflect. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to reflect. So I can announce that the amendment proposals, Honourable Parliament, can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A Member applying for a post-meeting address is not present in the Chamber. So, thanking you for your work, I would like to announce that the Parliament will resume its meeting next week at 11 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Thank you very much. Goodbye, everyone.
