u2019-11-11-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good afternoon. Welcome. The 8th day of the fall session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Győző Vinnai and notary György Lukács will be of assistance to me. Welcome to our dear guests and everyone who's watching our work. Dear Parliament, We will begin our work with speeches before the agenda today, from 12:15 a.m. to 13:45 a.m. for questions, and from approximately 13:45 a.m. to 14:45 a.m. for immediate questions and answers, and we will conclude the Parliament's meeting with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Member Gergely Arató, representative of the Democratic Coalition, asked for a pre-meeting address with the title "Dictator's Meeting and Chaos in Budapest." Here you go.
u2019-11-11-1	Thank you very much. Dear House, King Edward, King of England / Steps on his pale horse: / Around him silence where he went, / And a mute province. This tyrant has been given such kind silence and silence by the government to President Erdoğan, the bloody Turkish dictator. Empty and mute streets welcomed the newest sultan of the high porter, as he drove to the Buda Castle, the Buda Castle, which this time the government, without the help of the Janicsars, had flaged with crescent flags. We can only hope that Turkish hosts will have so many historical senses when they welcome Viktor Orbán on his return visit and take him to the Seven Towers. But it's normal in itself, it's just another friend of the dictator Viktor Orbán's who came to visit; only this great friendship was now due to the people of Budapest. So far, people have never been delivered from the tram, the subway hasn't been or stopped, people have not been allowed out of the subway, pedestrians have not been allowed to cross the road, sometimes they have not been able to get out of the building and get in. Many were stuck at work, unable to pick up their children from school, kindergarten, or were caught in some kind of public transport. And this isn't a game anymore! This isn't just about the Prime Minister's hobbies anymore. Of course, in a wise way, the police immediately knew who was to blame: on the one hand, the Fradi and the CSKA Moscow fans, on the other hand, I do not know that they will not have any trouble with their other mate, their other master, President Putin, and on the other hand, peaceful protestors. Because indeed, most of the freedom-loving people of Budapest did not welcome the bloody Turkish dictator, who killed civilians and children, very much. In recent years or centuries, the Hungarian people have suffered a great deal from various alien tyrants, and they are not welcome to see them today either. It was probably the main reason for all this closure, the paralysis of the city. They didn't want the high guest to see that the Hungarians in Europe didn't want it. Let us mention it, because I suspect that the replying Secretary of State will come in 2006 that these protestors did not attack the TV, they did not burn down cars, they did not attack the police, they did not pose any threat to anyone but the huge ego of the domestic and the importer. Although the Prime Minister calls the opposition ignorant, neither the opposition nor the Hungarian citizens are stupid. We understand very well that Erdoğan does not now protect Europe from refugees, but, on the contrary, tens of thousands of Kurdish refugees will move from war to Europe. We also understand that Syrian refugees who are now being forced across the Turkish-Syrian border, into a war zone as they can, will continue to leave, and will again be knocking on the gates of Europe. And we understand why you support this genocidal, murderous and Europe-threatening policy: because your only political product is fear of refugees, hatred of refugees, this is their only achievement, and I would like to maintain it, and that will be the result of another hundred thousand of your buddies's deportation. We understand, too, why, while referring to the protection of Christendom, the warrior Muslim Dervis Gül Baba is idealized in a false way. We understand why a school that teaches radical Islam in addition to the praise of President Erdoğan has been allowed to come here, and which has been affected in this way by many of the actors of the foundation that have been created by terrorist organisations in connection with terrorism. A school that is not welcomed anywhere in the European Union except Romania can open up in Budapest; a school that will be the headquarters of radical Islam in Budapest, and you support it, of course, in the spirit of the protection of Christianity. We also understand why, in the spirit of the protection of Christendom, the Prime Minister stands out with various Islamic and communist dictators, perhaps mixing the two, but by the way it is definitely Christian-hunting. Private business is everything to you and morality is nothing. We understand, my dear Prime Minister, dear Fidesz, we understand, but we are ashamed of ourselves for you. The Democratic Coalition has a suggestion: if the Prime Minister so much desires the company of his fellow dictators, if he wants to secure his escape route after his fall, if he wants to make some more private business, then don't bring them to Budapest, take them to the property in the name of one of his stromans, the 60 Puszta estate, the castle of Tura [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and leave Budapest and Budapest alone. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-11-2	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, reflects. Here you go.
u2019-11-11-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I would like to respond to the serious parts of your speech or to those that are somewhat serious. As regards the visit of the Turkish President, what we want to achieve is that the key countries of the world are interested in Hungary's success, and that is what the Turkish President's visit was for. And when you were on the government, I think you could be led by similar considerations, which is why Ferenc Gyurcsány received such a large, wide smile on President Erdoğan, where I quote Népszava, he said that expanding economic relations primarily serve the interests of our peoples and nations. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] That's what you said. They also know very well that not only the Hungarian Prime Minister, but also the leaders of other countries, meet regularly with the Turkish President; only recently, the Romanian Prime Minister, the Croatian Prime Minister, the Greek Prime Minister, the Bulgarian Prime Minister, the Slovenian Head of State met him, the Czech Prime Minister, the US Foreign Minister, and as far as we know, there is also a discussion to be held with the US President. As regards the transport situation: if the left had so much wanted to help the people of Budapest, it would not have organised a demonstration on routes that were significantly aggravated by the closure of which, in any event, [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] a situation requiring patience. And their hypocrisy is enhanced by protesting the visit on the surface, but the left-wing mayor of Kispest received the president's wife and her donations with a big, big smile. [[11.10]] And since I can't resist moral questions, it's all about the fact that Csaba Czeglédy has been entrusted with the due diligence of the districts. [[Gergely Harvesto: You're scared, aren't you? There's a reason for that.]] that man [[An intervention from the ranks of Fidesz: Shame!]] who has already been convicted of tax evasion, the man accused of a very serious crime, the man who is very closely linked to Ferenc Gyurcsány's party. Do you think it's okay for a former tax criminal convicted of tax fraud to be given the due diligence of the contracts? [[Zsolt Gréczy: 130 million was spent on lawyers!]] Well, they'd fight a wolf for a vegan diet, a tax criminal for transparency! I mean, it's not gonna happen. I'll be damned. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Is there a judgment?]] In any case, one thing we can see right from the last few days: Csaba Czeglédy is the poster face of the united left. [[Gergely Arató: Then that worked out well in Jászberény! Zsolt Gréczy: Jászberény, Szekszárd!]] Now, in retrospect, they could have put it on their posters. So, if you want to do something about moral matters, you should now inform the public about the number of places you want to put Csaba Czeglédy's office in the neck of the cities and districts, what is the reason for this, and what service this man has done to you, that it has to be paid so spectacularly. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Criminal! Gergely Harvester: Whoever says it is!]] As long as they're fighting a tax criminal for transparency, they have zero, zero, or no basis for that. [[Gergely Harvester: It will be unpleasant! Zsolt Gréczy: 130 million!]] To get anyone to account for it. Honourable Congressman, There's another case. You talked about Turkish-Hungarian relations [[Zsolt Gréczy: Jászberény! Jászberény! Jászberény!]] I would also like to address Hungarian-Hungarian relations in connection with this, and I apologize in advance, because it does not belong directly here, but in the end we will find out why I am bringing it here. In recent days, we have experienced an unprecedented phenomenon that is difficult to digest. One opposition party openly campaigned against the Hungarian parties from abroad. In Momentum Transylvania he campaigned for a Romanian presidential candidate, and in Slovakia they campaigned for a Slovak party, while there is also a Hungarian party. No one has ventured this far into Hungarian politics [[Gergely Arató: What did you do with Orbán Băsescu?]] There's been a few attempts. The thing is, the SDS have hatched, and they're more insensitive to national affairs than their predecessors have ever been. That's why I'm bringing this here. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Is this the SZDSZ where Tarlos came from?]] I am bringing this here because we would like to suggest to all opposition parties that in their next negotiations they interpret to the Momentum that this is not okay, that they have crossed a red line. Tell them that anyone campaigning against the Hungarians, who torpedoes the Hungarian unit will never have majority support in this country. [[Gergely Arató: This must be very helpful for someone who couldn't pick up their child in kindergarten! Zsolt Gréczy: And there were no theatre performances!]] We don't know who put the Momentum on this train, but it's not too late to pull the brakes. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-11-4	Thank you very much. Before we go any further, I must say that, of course, Mr Secretary of State has the right to express his opinion on any political group in Hungary. Here he did it in connection with a party that does not currently have a parliamentary representative. Obviously, I think it's fair for you to say this in public and defend your position. Thank you. Dear Parliament, Zita Gurmai, Deputy Head of the MSZP Group, applied for a pre-meeting address with the title "Save Life and Disruption of Government." Here you go.
u2019-11-11-5	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Dear fellow Members, Since the Fidesz government and its faction are almost exclusively male, I ask you in mid-November: are you not afraid? November is a month of male health, and this is a good opportunity to join the Movember movement in talking about cancers affecting men, including prostate cancer, which is the second most common malignant cancer among men. Prostate cancer is diagnosed in some 4,500 men and causes the death of 1,300 men a year, which means that this is a threat that you, the male-centred Fidesz, should and should also consider. 'Cause the thing is, you guys are probably gonna go through pay-per-views because you're afraid for your lives, but you're not gonna give the same chance to ordinary people. In general, the Fidesz government does not even make available the screening tests that the European Union pays. Last year, for example, they promised to start the colon screening program, but this was cancelled. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We've started it! No, you didn't.]] As a result, there was a risk that the European Union would have to pay back 6 billion forints of funding. It also shows that Fidesz does not care about the lives of Hungarian people, Fidesz does not care about the health of Hungarian people. This is what we have seen in the last nine years, when Fidesz sent Hungarian health care to the ground. Many screening tests are only possible with the doctor's referral, free of charge, but there are not enough general practitioners. According to the latest data, there are 406 permanent GP districts in Hungary today. These areas are simply left out of screening, since if there is no general doctor, there is no one to take care of the tests. And where there is a general practitioner, it is difficult to start screening tests because Fidesz puts so much administrative burden on doctors, overworked doctors, that there is virtually no time left for prevention. In Hungarian, because of the Fidesz government, a general physician simply does not have the capacity to take action to carry out screening tests. And then add that the Fidesz government pays only a few hundred forints a month after a male patient in his thirtieth year. Do you understand that? After a patient, do you only give a hundred forints a month to the general practitioners? That's outrageous. Let's just say it's the Fidesz government that makes screening tests impossible. However, filter buses could ease this situation, but Fidesz managed to spoil it, because the service of filter buses is not available to anyone, because it is only free on the basis of the doctor's referral. And then the circle ends here, because either there's no GP, or the GP doesn't have time to deal with the referrals for prevention and screening. But if a filter bus and its staff are already in a settlement, wouldn't it be logical to make these tests available to all residents? What's the point of not giving everyone access to the screening? I mean, you should know, in the case of prostate cancer, early detection can save lives. One word, like a hundred, the Fidesz government does not respond to early detection of prostate cancer in the field of awareness raising or prevention. With that attitude, Fidesz condemns a lot of men who can be saved every year. I therefore strongly urge the Government to increase the effectiveness of prostate cancer prevention with immediate effect. Let it be information on prevention. Have screening available to all stakeholders. I ask you not to point backwards in your answer, because 85 percent of the permanently unfilled GP and Dentist districts have become vacant under the Fidesz administration. You've been ruling for nine years. It's a fact they can't wash off by cutting. Thank you for listening.
u2019-11-11-6	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, State Secretary of the EMMI, responds. Here you go.
u2019-11-11-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, What I can tell you, as in your previous speech, is that we are not actually responding, but we are correcting what you are saying here in Parliament. You do not believe that colon and rectum screening has started in Hungary. In your opinion, 220,000 men who have not started their program have received calls, a notice that will allow the investigation to begin, who belongs to the age group that is most at risk. For this 220,000 letters, 53,000 people submitted their samples in the screening program that you said had not been launched, and three thousand people were invited for further examination, based on the 53,000 submitted samples. This is very important, because, as you said, colon screening is one of our most important tasks, because in order to save people's lives, it is here that you can make the most effective move. That's why the government started this program, which is why we first have a pilot programme covering a few counties and then a national programme, in which we can involve 220,000 people, and, as I said to you, three thousand people, where the risk factor is higher, so the results show that it is important to carry out further tests, we will carry out further tests, so surely this program has been able to save lives. [[11.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It is also untrue that if the screening bus, which we started nationally, stops somewhere, precisely so that there is screening in the municipalities from which fewer people may be able to go to a hospital, or less attention to it, or transport difficulties arise, everyone can participate in these basic screenings: Madam honourable Member, this filter bus does not require a referral for anyone. It stops there on a village day, on a screening occasion, entering a schoolyard, or stopping in the main square, and those who go there are usually many, and they are standing in line in front of it because they want to learn a lot about their health, these basic tests are carried out on them. They draw their attention to where they need to go to the hospital, the clinic, where they need to go, and where they need to carry out further tests. That experience on filter buses, which, of course, is not the case, but if anyone goes there, the investigation will be carried out to ensure that in the municipalities that have a hospital, or where the hospital is closer, these tests have been carried out several times. The most popular of these are cervical screening, but we can also see that in larger settlements it is regularly performed by the ladies, since we do not forget that after breast screening we have introduced cervical screening and colon screening as an important general screening program. The latter were denied by you to exist at all, but I just denied that with the numbers. Now we can see that in smaller settlements, however, the frequency of these screenings, when a person goes on free, state-sponsored regular occasions, is less. This is why it is important for filter buses to reach smaller settlements, as there they can provide much more help and save lives. As regards the prevention tasks of GPs, honourable Member, you may not have come back from Brussels completely and you do not see what programmes are going on here in Hungary, but we are already launching in the third round the applications for practice communities. The exact essence of these is that the general practitioners form an area, such as a walk, a district, or several settlements, and there they receive a significant bonus of HUF 50, 120, 150 million from the state if they provide health-preventing additional services, and extend what they do with lifestyle counseling, screening programs and others. And this is not to be done at the expense of your card money, it is not a legal obligation that you have to do, but an additional source that you can provide additional services. That's how we cross the 21st. In the 20th century, on the one hand, with digital health, the ESZ, which is almost complete with public service providers and covers private service providers from next year onwards, so that digitally it has access to as much data as possible for all patients when they need to be treated in some way. On the other hand, in health care, the focus should increasingly shift to basic care and basic care for prevention. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Like I said, we're not asking for this for free. In recent years, everyone has been able to apply very well for this, for 60 million, for 120 million, for different amounts depending on how many patients they provide. But this, honourable Member, has already happened and has been going on for years. Please read not only the news in Brussels, but also the news in Budapest. In order to replace the general practitioners, this government has launched a program, which has not been an example, since not only the funding of the general doctor increased by more than 70 percent in your time, there was a monthly funding of a practice around HUF 800 thousand, it is now over HUF 1.5 million, but we also encourage doctors to choose the home doctor's career by applying for a residency and a practice contest. This is how nearly half a million people have been provided with general medical care in this program. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-11-8	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda, Mr.Péter Jakab, leader of the Jobbik faction, asked for a speech:.. How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. Here you go.
u2019-11-11-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members of the Fidesz Group, I've come with a good news: another orange bust is ready. Yesterday, you were baked by the Jászberényi. I would also like to thank the Jászberényi very much, who, in the repeated election of the local government, which you discredited, set an example for this country out of honor, courage and honor. In this election, you have lost a lot, the opposition has won a lot, and Jászberény has won a lot. On October 13th, you were unable to acknowledge that you lost even a little. Now they've lost a lot. Thank you to the Hungarians of Jassity for doing everything in their power to teach you how to lose. Repetition is the mother of knowledge, keep up the good work. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]] Dear fellow Members of the Fidesz Group, Take note that those who do not respect the will of the people will sooner or later, but teach them respect and drive them away. You were chased away from Jászberény yesterday and will be driven out of the country tomorrow. So if you'll take my advice, learn to lose. Learn the reason for your defeat. The reason why more and more people say no to you is because the Hungarian people are simply sick of constant hatred and filth, they are sick of seeing them as idiots, they are sick of stealing the kitchen money, and they need to be without it, they are sick of going to hospitals not to be cured, but to die, and I could tell you more. Colleagues, you're only fighting for yourself, your own wallet, and we're fighting for the well-being of the people. That's why you're losing the election in more and more places, and we're winning it in more and more places. Please accept that the patience of the Hungarian people cannot be abused indefinitely! And that's exactly what you do when, say, Comrade Fat says things like that you don't have to raise the wages of the people who live here because they settle for less. Or when Tamás Deutsch says things like that the slave law is so good because the Hungarian worker loves to work overtime. Or when John Lazarus says that those who have nothing are worth so much. Well, we know very well, fellow Members, that the Hungarian employee doesn't have anything because he doesn't work, but because he doesn't get paid, but half of his salary is taken by the Hungarian state. So what do these guys do now? Steal like you to have something? Is that what you're telling them? Or what? What do you have to say to the 800 jazz Hungarians your favourite multinational is going to put on the street? What do you say to them besides being well threatened before the election? And what does it even say that eight hundred Hungarians are being put on the street while you are installing tens of thousands of economic immigrants? Only 44 grand from Inner Ukraine so far! Of course, we know what they say to these 800 Hungarians. I thought you guys would have liked to have worked cheaper. Yes, fellow Members, you have been able to conclude from firing 800 Hungarians that wages are too high in Hungary. Say this when the Romanian minimum wage precedes Hungarian. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You say that.]] Shame, fellow Members. These people can't make a living, they have to make a living! We don't have to compete with Asia in cheap terms, as you think. God forbid we win this race, because that Hungarian worker is going to die! The Hungarian worker must become competitive in quality and knowledge, and quality and knowledge must be paid in the Western world. I trust that we agree that Hungary is part of the West, which means that wages must not be caught up with the East, but with the West, and that EU funds should not be invested in the multinationals that send out Hungarians, but in Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, that is, in Hungarian people, in the knowledge, health and wallet of Hungarian people. And you said that if the Hungarian people want to work, they should work for less. The fact is, fellow Members, I have travelled the country in recent months and the Hungarians have also sent you a message. In Borsod, salaries are more than 100 thousand forints behind the capital level. But if I go into the shop in a village in Borsodi, bread is more expensive than in Budapest. So the Borsodians tell you that they don't want dry noodles before the elections, they want quality work and affordable bread. From Somogy, you are told to lower the cost of public transport, because it is more expensive to take a bus to the village next door than to take a subway and cruise in Budapest. From Sopron, you are told that the city is full of guest workers from East Hungary, so raise the wages of the East Hungarians so that everyone can manage in their own homeland. And from Jászberény, they tell you to get out of public life. Hungary of the countryside says that there has been enough stealing, enough visual investment, enough stadiums. The countryside wants to live, to invest in production, manufacturing, food industry, and politicians who serve the people, not the people. Colleagues! The people want more, now give it to him! We know very well what the people are asking for: equal pay for equal work, and thirty years for thirty years for you. If it's up to us, they'll get it. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-11-10	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, responds. Here you go.
u2019-11-11-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, First of all, on behalf of the government, I would like to congratulate all the municipal leaders and representatives elected in the repeated election. We want to wish them a good job. We hope that everyone will act in the interest of the settlement, and if so, so will the former city leaders and municipal representatives, they will be able to see the government as partners. With regard to Mr President's speech, I would like to put in order the allegations that are not true. That's exactly what one of the reality-denial claims was related to. However, the municipal election of 13 October is about 1.8 million voters supported the government side, while 1.3 million voters supported the non-government side. [[11.30]] So this means that more than 50 percent of voters supported pro-government candidates. And yet it is about the fact that the European Parliament election is famous for your fact that you are now on the count, but in one year you have managed to turn a 20 percent party into a 6 percent party. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] So if we're gonna start talking here, I don't think Parliament is necessarily this forum, but if we're gonna start talking about who the voters are talking to, they're gonna tell you that we should get out of public life. This is the case, among other things, because if you look at the results of the Jászberény election, you could say that Jobbik's support was strengthened if the voters voted for Jobbik in Jászberény. But they didn't vote for Jobbik. Because it was so unpleasant in Jászberény Jobbik, as in several places in the country, that they did not start under a better logo, but they started under the logo of an apparently camouflage organization, which was clearly a post-communist organization under Balliberal influence. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Look around in your own upper management before you complain.]] Why is that? If we are talking about Jobbik's loss of space and loss of performance, let me recommend to you the words of MEP Márton Gyöngyösi, former group leader. When he was asked that the momentary response, also mentioned by the Secretary of State Dömötör, which says that it is not Hungarian representatives from across the border that should be supported, but parties from an ideological point of view across the border with the same colour, he could only say that they could ask so much about the building of the Ethiopian dam. I think that the Hungarian Parliament has more to do with Hungarians across borders and the issue of national cohesion in general than with the building of the Ethiopian dams. [[Constant interruptions from Jobbik's benches.]] I think it is a minimum that the Hungarian Parliament has always claimed to have. There was only one exception: the Democratic Coalition was the only party represented by Parliament, which did not stand on this side in the Hungarian-Hungarian cooperation on the issue of national cohesion. But you have so far been on this side, and in the last few years you have clearly switched to the other side, the post-communist side, where it is not about who is Hungarian and who is not Hungarian, but what their ideological power calculations are. We think it is completely irrelevant that a Hungarian person from beyond the border is right-wing, left-wing, conservative, liberal, because he is primarily and most importantly Hungarian. And the Hungarian government elected by Hungarian people and Hungarian people in the Hungarian Parliament, and by Hungarian people, is responsible for representing them. We will do so even if there is no support from any opposition side in this regard. But until now, at least for your part, there have been signs that have shown that you agree. But in the end, let me quote András Pongráz, who once again gave his opinion on Jobbik: "They cheated badly on you with the spirit of 56. They've joined the Balliberals. They don't even know what they're doing. You guys talk? What does Peter James do in Parliament, the House of the Country? Whether you're a communist or not, whether you're a righty or not, you can't behave, said András Pongráz, and I agree with that to the full extent. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-11-12	Dear Parliament, [[It's grumpy.]] I'm very happy for your enthusiasm and your activity. I'm warning you, it's only Monday, so at least keep the power up until Saturday. Thank you. Thank you so much for being so active. I'm telling you, it's only Monday, so you have to keep your energy up until Saturday, so divide it up. And now, Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, representative of the LMP, has applied for a speech before the agenda:. Violence in school? What's the solution? It's an address. Here you go.
u2019-11-11-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vice President, Bullying's report is a serious problem these days. Unfortunately, the prevention of this is not sufficiently addressed in Hungarian education. Neither children nor adults are prepared to deal with this problem properly, although it is extremely important because it causes permanent injuries and distortions in the personality and social relations of future generations. My speech was primarily inspired by some parents who recently came to me and told me that their children were regularly harassed, hurt, and beaten in school. I've also got photos of little kids with strangulation marks on their necks and stuff like that. [[Dr. Attila Tilki: We have to press charges.]] The larger ones take away the small ones' money, and there is regular humiliation. In 2008 József Mayer conducted an investigation into the capital, in which the institutional leaders of 76 high schools with a capital reserve and 9-11 students were asked. In 2009, Borbála Paksi was led by a survey on programmes and aggression in the public education system, by consulting institutional leaders, teachers and students. Also in the spring of 2009 online questionnaire research was conducted with the help of the Köleknet education portal. At the same time as these studies, the national research commissioned by the Office of the Commissioner for Education was conducted, asking about 9 thousand 11th grade students and thousands of teachers. The ombudsman's research, looking at aggressive manifestations, concluded that nearly 60 percent of students claim to be the perpetrator of yelling, swearing, in the next place about 30 percent of humiliation, and then 25 percent of disfellowshipped, and in the end, about 18 percent of the perpetrators of yanking, hitting and kicking and other physical aggression. The research also covers aggressive actions against teachers, although fortunately this is much less common, but unfortunately it happens. In the largest sample research, 3.8 percent of students answered yes to the question, "Did you ever pull me, push me, hit me, hit a teacher with a hard object during the academic year? While 1.9 percent of the teachers lived to see that these things happened to him. Well, these numbers speak for themselves, because that wouldn't happen if a student assaulted a teacher. The teachers I interviewed said differently about the aggression in their school. There have been institutions where violence occurs almost daily, primarily among students, and in other schools much less frequently, whether monthly or even less frequently. Depends on the composition of students, such as the proportion of disadvantaged students or SNI students. But why would someone become a victim? External or internal differences, colour, origin, religion, isolation, interests. Children from a neglected environment, for whom a lack of love and a desire to care are almost palpable. Kids with a lack of self-confidence, in many cases with a completely orderly background, are also victims. It is absolutely true that most students are involved. And it must be mentioned here that the stalker himself is a victim, usually from an abusive environment. But it is also our job as politicians to draw attention to this problem. The aim is to provide teachers with training to identify all forms of psychological, physical, verbal abuse in school communities and to provide support for healthy adults from families and school walls. The aim is to tackle school psychologist deficiency, to estimate and strengthen family supporters, various signalling and support systems. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2019-11-11-14	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári may answer. Here.
u2019-11-11-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, He speaks of a phenomenon in which, obviously, those who are linked to school, or because they are teachers, or because their children go there, they feel a danger that their children do not fall into such a situation, or that they do not do so in their class. Therefore, as part of several strategies of the government, programmes launched either for education or for the digital strategy to help prevent these situations in the first place and to deal with these situations in the second place. [[11.40]] 2017-18 was the first pilot year when we launched this program, it is implemented by the Education Office, it is called the ENABLE programme, in which teachers receive practical help to prevent, recognise school abuse, intervene, and there are accredited teachers' further trainings that deal with this. Those who attend these can then provide assistance based on classroom occupations or otherwise. When the program is implemented in the classroom itself, there are times when teachers, school psychologists help prevent such situations. It's ten lessons in a module. One module generally talks about the realization and understanding of themselves and others' emotions, and in the second module, this is already the phenomenon you mentioned, and it responds to the bullying with an antibullying module specifically about abuse in school. This, as I said, started in the 2017-18 academic year, and since 18 this program has been taking place nationwide, precisely because it is important to act either against physical violence, Internet harassment or aggression against teachers, which is why we have expanded this module to nationalise. As regards the situation of teachers, you have referred to it - : often or not often, but a few times, that is why it was important that the new criminal code adopted in 2012 protects teachers as individuals with a public service mission more strictly; who uses such aggressive crime and violence against them is punishable by imprisonment from one year to five years, so this is an act classified as a category of crime. To prevent all kinds of situations, whether students or children are aggressive against each other, Internet aggression or aggression against teachers and teachers, this will start with the Ovissaru program in kindergarten. During last year's school year, 229 kindergartens of 260 settlements took part, and 16 thousand children were reached. During the school's Crime Prevention Advisory Program, we were able to provide assistance in 105 settlements in 252 secondary education institutions in one academic year, where consultants turned in 4738 classes, and 114,000 students were able to participate in this prevention and antibullying activity. Obviously, the police are here in the National Crime Prevention Council, which is an inter-wallet committee trying to help. Here, on the one hand, school prevention programmes are carried out, in many cases teachers and child protection officers can help to prevent these situations by further training in crime prevention; they are often helped to avoid or prevent these situations by the National Crime Prevention Council on family days or school days, so when the school gate opens, there are such programs for crime prevention. And from sports teachers to gym teachers, a lot of people offer training for other numbers. If you look at the system of teacher further education, you can see that there are about 200 valid teachers' further education courses that are at least relevant to the topics mentioned by you. There are 65 of them, which are specifically aimed at this kind of conflict resolution, treatment of violence, online harassment, with addresses such as the handling of problematic school situations with a focus on the solution,.. The non-violent treatment of child aggression,.,. Aggression and conflict management in practice, so these are exactly the situations that we are trying to remedy. So, honourable Member, here we have already tried to provide additional assistance to teachers in the treatment of these situations, which is mandatory for them to use free further training from time to time, and now they can choose one of these, and on the other hand there is a special programme in the year 17 as pilot, from the year 18 on a national basis, precisely because of the fact that they can choose one of these. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] especially in Internet harassment situations, which is a new situation in schools, we can provide as much help as possible in schools. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-11-16	Dear Parliament, Congressman Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, has applied for a speech before the agenda: on current affairs. Here you go.
u2019-11-11-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, I will quote Viktor Orbán in agreement. On October 21, this year, he said, "He who says climate change is a communist trick is not normal." He went on to say that the protection of the environment and the fight against climate change are important for the Government of Hungary. And he also added that, as far as the climate crisis is concerned, I was informed here this afternoon by Congresswoman Szabó Timea that this would be introduced in the capital city. That's okay, at least now we finally understand exactly what to do, so what measures to take. And for my part, I strongly support this, and I look forward to the decision of the Metropolitan Assembly, if the climate crisis is introduced in Budapest, to understand what measures can be taken in the capital according to the general assembly, to reduce the climate crisis. You seem to support this in theory, but in practice you do not understand what this means, because only four days after the decision of the Budapest General Assembly to declare an emergency climate situation, the Fidesz Government Office granted permission to cut 220 trees at Normafa at the request of a Fidesz district government. And why is that? To build a parking lot in the trees. You know what I mean? So, if there's anything we can do wrong in the fight against climate change, it's to increase car traffic, destroy trees, make decisions, and unfortunately, that's exactly what the Fidesz municipality wanted, I don't know what kind of investor interest or who knows what kind of expectations it is to do. The Dialogue, as a green left party, clearly takes a firm stand against this approach, and that is why we are doing everything we can to prevent the Fidesz from doing another destruction of the environment in Budapest, even though Fidesz is already supporting the fight against climate change in words. That's why we're going to the authorities, which is why we've announced a protest this Saturday at 10:00 to the Normafa, to wait for everyone who raises their voice against the unreasonable destruction, who goes against the fact that there's a place where you can get to by bus, coach, mini train, airlift, so get as many cars as you can in a place like this. This is your completely crazy onion dream, and you really don't seem to understand what climate change means, you don't understand what steps are being taken to boost climate change, what steps are being taken to increase greenhouse gas emissions. I will help you: if car traffic increases, greenhouse gas emissions will increase and climate change will accelerate. It's relatively simple. The kids can put this together in elementary school. I'm asking you to try to take this lead and keep the promise of the Fidesz mayor of the Mountains that there will be no mass logging and that there will be no more, but fewer cars on the Normafa. That would be the goal. And perhaps another short quote. I will quote Vilma Éri, who published on HVG the article in which he writes: "Everyone, every city dweller needs the natural environment: forest, park, waterfront. This need should not be met by intensive use of the existing forest area and, as a result, by the degradation of the forest into a park, but by forestry, parking in other parts of the city, by making existing other neglected forests suitable for walking and hiking. Parks and playgrounds should therefore be constructed not at the expense of the forest, but in those parts of the city where there are few parks, playgrounds and other green areas, so that the people living there can reach the green area where they can relax on foot without a long journey. Most of the money for the development of Normafa will serve Normafa best if it is not spent around Normafa. I ask you, I ask the government, because it seems that anyone who wants to build parking spaces in 2019 for the trees is not a very wise man, and I must say that it is not normal. [[11.50]] It's also better for you to say that climate change is a communist trick, because at least we know which side you're on. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-11-18	Thank you very much. State Secretary Csaba Dömötör, please.
u2019-11-11-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Apart from ratings and personalities, if you think it's important to protect the climate, then the place where we agree. I think that this is a more important issue than to be the ruin of daily domestic political battles. On the government's side, the government itself is working to ensure that by 2030 90% of power generation is carbon-free. This is served by a lot of programs, including the "Home Gay" program. And I could also refer to the programme announced by the Ministry of Agriculture in the last few days, which means an unprecedented wooding program. The same has been started in Budapest in recent years. If you have any intention of participating in these programmes, then we are happy for you. As far as the metropolitan assembly is concerned, you referred to them. There was a lot of clarity about what we could expect from the new administration, and it became clear that Gergely Christmas did not want to curb the people of the past. Secondly, it wants to introduce measures which were not mentioned at all in the campaign. On top of that, the mask of hypocrisy has fallen on several occasions. As far as the first point is concerned, the first meeting of the Assembly was very, very instructive, because we now know who is in position. Well, it's pretty much the ones who had a lease on the sunrise show when left-wing freedom of the press was raging. A lot of the characters are back. Hang on, I suggest a little roll call. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] Let's start with, say, János Atkári: former deputy of Gábor Demszky, present. Lot. Erzsébet Németh was also a substitute for Demszky, present. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Don't lie!]] Tibor Draskovics, Minister of Finance of Ferenc Gyurcsány, present. Tamás Katona, Secretary of State of Ferenc Gyurcsány, present. J. Zoltán Gál, Chief of Staff of Ferenc Gyurcsány, present. István Kolber, Minister for Development of Ferenc Gyurcsány, present. Csaba Tordai, Minister of State of Ferenc Gyurcsány, then, I understand, later Gordon Bajnai, present. Katalin Tüttő, Miklós Hagyó and Gábor Demszky are the heads of the public procurement committee, present. And it's just a missing detail from the list. Another lawyer protecting criminals came back, former president of SZDSZ in Budapest, former head of secretariat of Miklós Hagyó, Gyula Horn's niece, the MSZP spokesperson who had fallen into the video forgery scandal in Baja. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Jászberény...]] And even the former spokesperson of the Gyurcsány government is lurking around. These are people from the past. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] They're gonna refer to the future, they're gonna point to the future, but they're gonna waltz back into the past, and they're gonna waltz out the money. [[Bence of Turdai: Tell me about the future of Normafa...]] Then we will also look at the measures outlined. The stadium stop went soft, and there was a museum stop and a hospital stop. Gergely Christmas took part in the government meeting, and we already know that she does not support, among other things, the new National Gallery and the House of Hungarian Innovation. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] This was one of Europe's biggest cultural investments. And the thing is, the super-hospital case doesn't look any better than the XI. The mayor of the district left started attacking without his support and without the support of the capital, there will be nothing from the new super-hospital in Budapest. [[Tordai Bence: Normafa!]] So, I ask you, you often refer to health care, that if this is really important to you, then take a stand on whether you support it or not. [[Bence of Turda: One more minute...]] And there's something else, green policy. Last week, it turns out that Gergely Christmas is really green when the camera's on. Let's get one thing straight here. [[Bence of Turdai: If it's green, it'll be something...]] It's not that he drives a car. The problem is not that he has a driver, but he is the mayor of Budapest. But it's total hypocrisy that he's assigning the press, pretending to ride a bike and a BKV, and then there's the government fleet and the driver for every other situation. [[Bence of Turda: What about Normafa?]] It's the charade; it's not how the mayor travels. Now you're saying all kinds of things in pain, and you're yelling all kinds of things right now, but if we weren't on camera, if we weren't in this house, maybe we'd agree that it's embarrassing, it's embarrassing. This is embarrassing. [[Bence of Turdai: You shouldn't cut down trees!]] But there is one more important issue in this upheaval, namely that you want to gradually ban diesel cars from Budapest. This is what Gregory Christmas spoke about, and this was confirmed by his deputy, Dávid Doros. Whatever your plans are, make them public. If they really want a transparent city hall [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that is the minimum, especially when it comes to people's daily lives. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Bence of Turdai: You didn't say a word about Normafa.]]
u2019-11-11-20	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Member János Latorcai, representative of the KDNP, Vice-President of the Parliament, has applied for a speech before the agenda:, This is the title of the challenge of digitalisation. Here you go.
u2019-11-11-21	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Today, we hear more and more often that our time is the period of the technological-technical-economic revolution, based on data, information, its storage and processing. Digitalisation now affects all production processes in the economy, from agriculture to industry to services. A new data value series has been developed, with companies that collect, store, analyse and model data for the management of this innumerable amount of information. In this process, data is just one of the important new sources of value creation, so it is important to know who can get to them and who can use the opportunities and incomes resulting from their possession and use. Experience has shown that income from data is typically generated by actors at the end of the data value chain, data collectors or so-called digital platforms. These platforms often allow users to interact with each other for free on the Internet, but users and consumers actually pay for it with their own data, as data controllers provide targeted advertisements based on personal information, from which they derive advertising revenue, and e-commerce providers also request commission for their services. The digital economy is characterised by significant concentration. The United States and China provide three quarters of the market for all so-called block technology patents and cloud computing. Five of the seven super platforms in the world are Americans and two are of Chinese interest, but more are now developing together. Ladies and gentlemen, The importance of this topic is no more marked than being placed on the agenda by the United Nations, but it is also dealt with by specialised international institutions such as the World Trade Organisation and other institutions. The subject is also extremely important because the new technologies will eliminate a number of traditional job opportunities, while at the same time creating a multitude of new job opportunities that require new skills and knowledge from workers. These rapid changes in the labour market can also bring about a radical turnaround in society. It will certainly be necessary to adapt them in education and further training in order to better prepare and adapt to the challenges of the digital economy. It is also important to address this issue because it will be increasingly difficult to find resources to carry out all these tasks. It is also a huge challenge for us to be able to connect data to the digital economy by means of domestic companies capable of processing and integrating data, using artificial intelligence-based services. We, the legislators, have a responsibility and responsibility to create a framework for the digital economy, to identify factors affecting the social and economic consequences of digitalisation. This is why we need to pay particular attention to competition policy that will ensure this in the coming years, to infocommunication infrastructure, to taxation and to the development of appropriate education and, in particular, vocational training policies. [[12.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, So we have a lot of work to do, and we can only succeed together. Well, that's what I'm asking you all: let's think together, let's do this. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-11-22	Thank you very much. State Secretary of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, Tamás Schanda, responds. Here.
u2019-11-11-23	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Vice President, The government aims to make Hungary one of the five most vibrant and competitive European countries by 2030. An important element of this is that Hungary makes good use of the opportunities ahead of it, and digitalisation gives us a chance and an opportunity. We need to use digital opportunities faster, better and more purposeful than our competitors. CHAPTER XXI The 20th century is basically and very fast moving to digitalization, and serious and rapid technological changes have taken place and are taking place today. Digitalisation, the changes associated with it, affect all aspects of our lives. There is no segment of society or economy that is not affected. It is a fundamental competitiveness and prosperity factor that no one can ignore. Therefore, the government's goal is to make our country the winner of digitalization. To this end, we pay particular attention both to the digitalisation of small and medium-sized enterprises that are the engines of the Hungarian economy and to the development of digital skills for Hungarian people. This is why the launch of the Digital Prosperity programme was of particular importance. The objectives set out in the programme, such as digital infrastructure, digital competences, the development of the digital economy and the creation of a digital state, all contribute effectively to raising the level of digitalisation of the economy and society. Mr. Vice President, Digitalisation in itself is not a goal, but a tool to promote the productivity and efficiency of SMEs, thereby increasing the quality of life of entrepreneurs and workers. The recently presented Hungarian SME strategy helps to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises and increase their export revenue, including through training, digital development and tax reductions. Digital developments also play a major role in the innovation and R &amp; D activities of companies, which promote entry to the international market. Today, no company can lack digital tools, solutions, and their use is essential for their operation and competitiveness. We support the digitalisation of the economy with unprecedented resources and broad programmes reaching all sectors. These include the Modern Business Programme, the IT and engineering programme, which promotes the digitalisation of SMEs, and Programme your future! A programme or an Input programme supporting the entry into the market of startup enterprises. Honourable Congressman, We have Europe and one of the world's most modern digital infrastructures to benefit from digitalisation. In the area of fixed-line networks, Hungary is ranked 11th, according to a survey conducted in 177 countries. This position will be further strengthened by the super-fast internet program, which will allow us to provide access to the Internet with the right bandwidth across the country. In order to maintain economic growth, the introduction and spread of services based on 5 G technology is of particular importance for Hungary as soon as possible. This is why the 5 G coalition was created in June 2017 and the government is expected to adopt the 5 G strategy as well. We cannot, of course, go beyond the new technological changes that determine our age, as you have said, such as artificial intelligence, on which we are also developing a targeted strategy, because our goal is to make Hungary the winner of digitalisation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-11-24	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, MEP László Böröcz, representative of Fidesz, has applied for an address before the agenda: Here you go.
u2019-11-11-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Last week the Metropolitan Assembly was established, and it soon became clear that Gergely Christmas would be further away from her own commitments every day. But what was the most important thing for Gergely Christmas and the Balliberian majority in the capital? Well, the raise! Of course, it's not people's. It's yours. For the left, people are only important as long as the campaign takes place, as soon as they come to power, and then somehow, it always goes away. The five Deputy Mayors appointed by Christmas receive more than 1.3 million forints each, and the Mayor's wages rose to 1.5 million forints. [[Bence of Turdai: How much is your salary? It's the law!]] Just by the step that Gergely Karácsony has appointed five deputy mayors instead of the three deputy mayors, compared to István Tarlós, this will cost the capitals about 200 million HUF for the entire municipal cycle, together with a salary increase and everything. And it wouldn't be fair of me to say that Congressman Tordai has brought this up so that I don't say anything about the fact that the capital has boldly declared the climate threat. Indeed! And what happened next? Please, during the spectacular bike ride, Gergely Christmas and the deputy mayor voted for the office vehicle for themselves, and the fact that this was in the spirit of zero emissions proves that it can be used not only for official purposes but also for private purposes. By the way, it is called drinking wine and preaching water in everyday life. I'm sure you'll also remember that Christmas in the campaign was trying to surround you with new faces. Compared to this, the people of the past are stepping up from behind the screen. [[Bence of Turdai: Do you have 200 State Secretarys?!]] The cashier key was given to those who were involved in the distribution of capital money and that Budapest had fallen into bankruptcy in 2010. Lot. Erzsébet Németh and Kata Tüttő played an important role even in the Demszky era of bad memory. As State Secretary Csaba Dömötör said, Gy. Erzsébet Németh controlled the MSZP fraction, and Kata Tüttő was at the head of the public procurement committee, and of course they didn't realize that one of Hungary's biggest corruption cases, the metro 4 case, took place in front of their eyes. Now they have the most important powers in the capital. And the line could go on for a long time, because the brutal spending of money didn't escape the balliberal circles of trust and the moonyard. For example, Tibor Draskovits, former Minister of Finance Gyurcsány, former Minister of Development István Kolber, former State Secretary and Socialist Party Director Tamás Katona, ex-government spokesperson Zoltán Gál, and ex-State Secretary Csaba Tordai, who rewrote the Hungarian Gazette at his own convenience. They were all the first ones in the line when they split the positions. They were actively involved in the destruction of the Hungarian economy, and otherwise they rejected the country's development by at least ten years. And in order to be ideologically correct in the capital, of course the Bolshevik Sofia Havas, who abused the 56th and Nazis the revolutionaries, received an external committee membership. Congratulations to the renewed left, by the way. Ferenc Gyurcsány also went to the assembly. He just doesn't go anywhere without a reason or a purpose. Of course, he wanted to personally verify that his plan was going as planned. And Gergely Christmas knows perfectly well that Gyurcsány is also the boss of the capital, and the puppet role doesn't seem to bother him at all. It's the same at the district level, please. The left is creating just as many posts as hungry mouths now need to be fed suddenly, but this opposition pact is costing the capitals very, very much. Péter Niedermüller, the new mayor of Erzsébetváros, who, according to his own statement, is not fit for this position, has raised the number of sub-Mayors to four instead of two, and has voted about one million forints a month. We can see that the first measure taken by left-wing municipalities was also an increase in their own salary. Some municipalities have increased their previous salaries by 100 percent. [[12.10]] And what is really facial toast is that some left-wing districts have contracted Csaba Czeglédy for the due diligence of contracts and the city, who in 2002 was finally sentenced to suspended prison for tax fraud, forgery of private documents and for violating accounting discipline, and is currently being prosecuted for harming students. Like I said, he's doing a sweep of the left-wing authorities now. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-11-26	Thank you very much. State Secretary Orbán, please.
u2019-11-11-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In politics, it is not particularly easy to compare the performance of different political sites because of a lot of factors, so this is not a simple intellectual genre, but we have contacts in Budapest. As you have mentioned, Member, between 1990 and 2010, the capital has lived a so-called period of Demszky, followed by a nine-year period marked by the name of István Tarlós, as it was clear from your speech, and I would not repeat that, if I may. At the moment, it seems, and there are very strong signs of this, not only suspicion, but also serious signs, and we can even say that the facts clearly point in this direction that the period with Gábor Demszky has returned, so we can say that at the moment it is beginning its 21st year. If we compare the performance of the two eras, i.e. the period of the Demszky era and the era of the right-wing city leadership, then, as you pointed out, and in this respect, several numbers were mentioned here between the walls of the House in the last few weeks, when the civilian government arrived in 2010, the capital of the debt trap had to be freed from more than HUF 200 billion in debt, and that period was characterised by stalled developments, unfinished investments and clearly visible and spectacular corruption cases. In contrast, some of the results of the 2010-2019 Tarlós era would be listed, if they allowed, because this also shows the priorities of a right-wing government and the city administration: on the one hand, the security of the capital has improved significantly, and the registered crimes have decreased by 46 percent. We managed to turn the biggest corruption scandal of all time, subway 4, into a completed investment. We have renovated metro 3 trains, 47 new trams Budapest has received, the spinning tram network has been completed, the tram line 1 has been extended, the FUTÁR passenger briefing has been established. We have renovated 35 road and pedestrian overpasses with 2700 P+R parking spaces, and the bike transport in Budapest has also developed. We have also renovated several important symbolic spaces: Széll Kálmán tér, Kossuth tér, Ferenciek tere, Nyugati tér, II. Pope John Paul Square. Ten thousand trees were planted in the city, large-scale flowering operations were carried out, we created a rose garden in St. Stephen's Park; we hope that the park can at least keep its name during the new city's management. And, as State Secretary Dömötör said, the biggest cultural urban development of the century has been launched in the framework of the Liget project, which at the moment appears to be blocked by the hospital stop and cultural investments, as well as by the new Budapest city leadership within the framework of the museum stop. Several universities and research buildings have been built or renewed: Moholy-Nagy University of Arts, the Ludovikan National University of Public Service, the House of Human Sciences, the Research Centre of Natural Sciences, Erkel Theatre, Music Academy, Opera House, the Budapest Music Center, Erzsébet tér Cultural Center, and the new building of the National Dance Theatre has been opened. Our monuments have been constantly renewed from Castle Garden Bazaar, Buda Vigadó to Matthias Church or Museum Garden. Several spas, beaches and swimming pools have been developed. A new modern water arena has been built, and the roads and infrastructure investments surrounding it have been renewed. The Budapest University of Semmelweis has received a new care provider, and at the moment the largest medical development in Budapest is under way, which also looks like it is not or only partially supported by the new city management of Budapest. In addition, if we are talking about green issues here, the green infrastructure programme also ran in Budapest, and Budapest also has an agreed climate strategy, so the related rumors do not stand the test of reality either. I believe that this list clearly shows that the right-wing city leadership, which has been responsible for the city so far, and the right-wing government, which has also been in power for nine years, considers it priorities for the development of Budapest. We consider these priorities not for our own political interests, but for the interests of the people of Budapest. At the moment, we do not see this on the side of the newly elected opposition leadership. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-11-28	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Before we go any further, allow me, on your behalf, to welcome our guests from Ozd, as well as the students of the Sigismundy High School of Dorog and the teachers' colleagues. Hello. I'm glad you're here. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. He applied for the speech after today's agenda: István Apáti, independent; Péter Ovádi, Fidesz; Gergely Tapolczai, Fidesz; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Sándor Szabó, MSZP; László Hajdu, DK; Tibor Nunkovics, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Tamás Csányi, Jobbik; Gergely Farkas, Jobbik; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik, Members. Dear Parliament, Now, at 12:16 p.m., we will begin the discussion of your questions and your immediate question. Dear Parliament, Congressman Tibor Nunkovics, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Today, the economy is no longer built on cheap domestic labour, but on cheap Ukrainians? It's an address. Here you go.
u2019-11-11-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, allow me to welcome the students and escorts of my alma mater, Vilmos Zsigmondy High School of Dorog. Turning to the question, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said not so long ago that it is worth investing in the Arab countries in Hungary because the labour force is cheap, the workforce is high-quality, but the labour code is flexible. This last statement should, however, need to be updated or updated, as people already know it as a slave law, they baptized it for that name. The term "Hungarian worker" is becoming more and more unjustified, as according to the latest data from the KSH, the Eastern workforce is pouring into Hungary. To give just two examples of this data set: 44,000 registered workers have come to Hungary only from Ukraine in recent years, and here it is important, I stress that the number of registered persons is likely to be at least one more time the number of people who are not registered, so they are working black in Hungary. Compared to 2017, the number of Eastern workers in Hungary has tripled. We also read on your posters that if anyone comes to Hungary, they cannot take away the work of Hungarians. In comparison, in practice, the Ukrainians have already done so, and I stress that I am talking about Ukrainians, not Transcarpathian Hungarians. Another very talkative piece of data: you, the government, announced a programme by 31 March under which municipalities could apply for a job hostel construction. The budget for this was ten billion forints, so I stress that you spent ten billion forints to build workers' shelters for the eastern workforce instead of building apartments for young Hungarians. So I ask the Honourable Secretary of State [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I understand that those coming from the east are looking for prosperity, but the young Hungarians are also going for the same reason. How do you think Ukrainian workers will affect the current wages in Hungary with their low wages? Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-11-30	Thank you very much. With all due respect, I would like to draw your attention to the time frame provided by the house rules. By answering this question, the Prime Minister has appointed Minister for Finance Mihály Varga, who is responsible for the subject, and at the request of the Minister Sándor Bodó, State Secretary. Here you go. [[12.20]]
u2019-11-11-31	Thank you very much. Mr President, Congressman! Dear House, I can still only express my regret that one of the most important economic laws of the country, the Code of Labour, is still in your hands, and that is what you call it here, within the walls of Parliament. Of course, the basic problem is even greater in terms of its contribution, since it simply does not acknowledge the long-term and predictable processes that characterize the Hungarian labour market. I understand that from a political point of view, you want to take a thought and build on it some kind of principle, but this is not in the context of thank-yous either. In the current period, the Hungarian labour market is clearly experiencing labour demand, wages are constantly rising; and it is also apparent that Hungary's Government is committed to resolving labour shortages with Hungarian workers in the labour market. Of course, because we live in a consolidated system, this shortage of labour cannot be filled occasionally only with Hungarian workers, so it does happen, but in regulated conditions, on the basis of a regulated, accepted quota, that foreign workers also contribute to Hungarian economic success. But I stress, first of all, the most important and primary aspect is the search for, activation of domestic labour and the assistance of the family support system. Of course, it may be necessary to facilitate labour market mobility and to build workstations. This also happens not only in West Hungary, Debrecen or Hajdúböszörmény, Member. There may be a need for rent support, work support, and the government wants to use them. Gross and net earnings increased by 10.7 percent in January-August 2019. In other words, you can see that Hungarian wages are increasing in the labour market. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-11-32	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zsolt Molnár, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister of Defence:. Security risks do not matter when it comes to Turkish business? Mr. Congressman, please.
u2019-11-11-33	Mr. President, thank you. Dear Parliament, I would like to start by saying that, in the absence of government rebuttal, it can now be treated as a fact that the government is planning to purchase armoured team transport vehicles from Turkey. Erdoğan's visit gives a strange voice to the case, doesn't it? In the meantime, the Member States of the European Union have imposed sanctions on Turkey for arms trafficking due to the intervention in Northern Syria, and there are also serious disruptions in Turkish-American military cooperation. This does not seem to bother the government at all: Minister of Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó made it clear at a press conference with his German colleague a few days ago that the government has no intention of reviewing the cooperation of the military industry with the Turks. I ask Minister that, in spite of the extremely worrying developments, the Hungarian Government has not given up on the purchase of Turkish military vehicles. Mr. Secretary, in the current situation, doesn't this acquisition pose a security risk? What happens if the cooperation between Turkey and the other NATO Member States continues to deteriorate or freeze completely? Do you think it could result in the unsatisfying delivery of military vehicles and the subsequent supply of parts and service support? Is it really worth taking such a risk for the friendship of Turkish Presidents Viktor Orbán and President Erdoğan? Or is there another reason for stubborn attachment to the Turkish arms business? The position of the Hungarian Socialist Party is clear: Hungary's security until the first soothing settlement of the situation in Northern Syria and the normalization of relations between Turkey and the other NATO Member States cannot be talked about arms trafficking with the Turks. We ask the Hungarian government to stick to this. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2019-11-11-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. István Szabó Secretary of State responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-11-11-35	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Hungary is located in a geographical area designated by three major capitals. This is the Moscow-Berlin-Istanbul axis, and as you know, the high-ranking leaders of all countries have been here recently. The framework for cooperation between Hungary and Turkey, the Highest Level Strategic Council, was established in 2013 when we agreed on annual meetings with Turkey. The war in Syria has been going on for nine years, and without Turkey, migration to Europe cannot be stopped, and it is a fact that Turkey has already stopped 350 thousand illegal border crossings, for which it is most appreciated. The Hungarian government has only one thing to consider: the Hungarian national interest. The Hungarian national interest dictates that we avoid the emergence of hundreds of thousands or even millions of illegal immigrants at the southern border of Hungary and avoid the need to force hundreds of thousands or millions of illegal immigrants to be held back at the southern border of Hungary. Hungary has always participated in and participated in the reconstruction of war-torn areas, in line with or beyond its weight. That's our position, take help where there's trouble, and not bring trouble where it's not. Honourable Congressman, The aim is to strengthen and increase trade flows between the two countries. Turkey is also our strategic partner in energy. Gas is planned to arrive by the end of 2021 at the latest through the Turkish Stream; as well as the Mol investment in Azerbaijan also has Turkish branches. We must strive not only for good relations with Turkey, but for Ankara to be interested in Hungary's success. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-11-36	Thank you very much. Congressman Lajos Oláh, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:....until THE RECONSTRUCTION OF THE PETERFY HOSPITAL. It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2019-11-11-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Years ago, you announced the program "Efficient Budapest" which was advertised by the fact that the capital will have the largest health development ever. Nevertheless, residents of Elizabeth and Terézváros see that they are slowly afraid to enter Péterfy Hospital, because either the plaster is falling or they cannot find the doctor inside. I do not know how much of this promise they intend to keep, how much money is actually planned to spend to improve health care in Budapest, but it was striking that they wanted to spend only 1.3 billion forints, i.e. less than 2 thousand of the total, on one of the capital's largest hospitals, the Péterfy Sándor street hospital in my constituency. The Péterfy Hospital provides hundreds of thousands of outpatients and tens of thousands of inpatients each year, if you look at only the number of patients, the HUF 1.3 billion is disproportionately small. But it's a ridiculous amount to measure the hospital's condition. The institution accumulates catastrophic debt over and over again. This is the case for all hospitals, and the public funding compensation is not in the context of the actual cost of each treatment. However, the hospital was horribly broken down, the wages of the workers broke down, and therefore the shortage of workers is also catastrophic. This hospital was forced to hire anesthesiologists and surgeons for a billion dollars, I say: rent, close the vascular surgery in the absence of specialists; there were no surgeries, because there was no operating aid; here the surgeons resigned in bulk. This is where the doctors threatened to fully comply, and this is where they found out that the X-ray doctors' lead vests are releasing radiation. And the conditions and working conditions here led Mary Alexander, the nurse in black, to launch her national protest movement. I ask you, Minister of State, how much do you think you can change these conditions for HUF 1.3 billion? Why are you delaying spending that on the hospital? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Two years ago, the reconstruction was announced, and nothing has happened since when my constituents could hope for it. [[The president's ringing again.]] humane circumstances? Excuse me. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-11-38	Secretary Bence Rétvári reflects. Here you go.
u2019-11-11-39	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is clear that you were no longer in government because you were in such a rush in hospital detention that after the Svábhegy Children's Hospital, the National Institute of Psychiatric and Neurology, the Szabolcs Street Hospital and Schöpf-Mere Hospital, you could have followed another hospital in Budapest, which you closed. Compared to this, they started their own local government activities in the district and in the capital by announcing a hospital stop. Earlier, they said they were gonna announce a stadium stop, asked their mayor not to build it, and compared it to a hospital and museum stop. For example, Imre László DK, who sat behind you in Parliament for months, said that he did not want the construction of the Super Hospital in South Buda. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh: Why? Zsolt Gréczy: Ten years!]] and said that some of these resources would be welcome at his former workplace [[Dr. Lajos Oláh: The old ones must be renovated first!]] but new, modern [[Zsolt Gréczy: You were ten years old, and you didn't build it!]] CHAPTER XXI Built in the 18th century, the 21st century It does not request the construction of a hospital that meets the needs of the medical technology of the century, and it will therefore prevent it in NewBuda. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh: First the Péterfy!]] This is part of the previous communication when he argued for a visitation fee and a hospital allowance, and now he argues for the prevention of hospital building. This is your health policy. [[12.30]] You're talking about making more money for doctors and nurses. When you were on the government, a month's wages were taken from all Hungarian doctors and all Hungarian nurses, honourable Member. On the other hand, we try to help the Péterfy Sándor Street hospital as much as possible. The public procurement procedure for the design of the reconstruction is underway and has entered a contracting phase, so planning, we hope, will be launched soon. Regardless of this, the hospital has received 830 new PCs, IT tools, as well as Microsoft licenses, and its server park has been upgraded. The total value of 190 million HUF is the most modern medical equipment, and it is under preparation for the complete acquisition of an operating system worth 720 million HUF. We hope this can happen next year. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] Several projects have already been implemented, up to HUF 182 million in energy, increasing patient safety from HUF 60 million, and structured development of a psychiatric care system. So there have been several other developments of tens of millions and hundreds of millions in recent years. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-11-40	Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I'm very glad you're praising my patience, but not the house rules. Therefore, I ask with respect that you observe the rules of the house, and we will discuss it separately when I am praised. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's how you should be nice.]] So now it is up to Congressman Péter Ungár to speak. The representative of the LMP wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources what will be included in the National Basic Study Plan on Sexuality? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-11-41	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, We are probably all in agreement in this room that what a child should hear about this subject before the age of 18 is essentially the responsibility of parents and family, but it must be admitted that there is a state responsibility in this regard, because in Hungary abortion is used as a means of contraception, for which it may also be a national minimum that is not a suitable method of contraception. This and very common sexually transmitted diseases in Hungary could be effectively prevented in one way, if the National Basics Plan included safe sex and contraception methods for teen children at school, and this was discussed at school. The fact is that at present, the National Basic Training Plan does not contain anything specific about this. At present, because of their ideologically very fundamentalist, conservative world view, you are saying a number of things that do not coincide with the way people live in Hungary. You want to tell people what their sex life should be, what to do, who to love and how to love, and why they say things again in state institutions, not in church, that virginity must be preserved until marriage, and that the most effective way to combat sexual illness is abstinence. In addition, they do not talk about such issues as how the porn industry sexualizes Hungarian youth or how the Internet or photography technology spoils the youth of many children. The fact is that your prudery does not serve the Hungarian people, and your prudery is also a hypocrite, and the National Basics Plan must include what concerns healthy sexuality, not what is your world view, because in this country there are people who do not agree with you. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-11-42	Thank you very much. Secretary Bence Rétvári, please.
u2019-11-11-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Regardless of the subject, I would say that you do not think that your world view should be made binding on everyone in Hungary, honourable Member. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Péter Ungár: I didn't say! Márta Demeter: He didn't exactly say that!]] Because the conclusion of your speech was that it should not be what the government represents, what you represented. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Nobody said that!]] For that reason, we must now look at the question here, too, with a kind of distance or respect, honourable Member. What will be and what will be expected in the National Basics Plan: the current text, which is now in force, is fully known, and the new National Basics Plan is one of the most transparent ways and allows everyone to have as much say as possible, since a short year ago, I remember that we put the entire text on the Internet, there for weeks and months, everyone could comment. You are aware that there were multiples compared to the text of the National Basic Study, if measured on a page, there was a comment on the National Basic Training Plan with a number of thousands of pages, and then they were processed and processed, and the final text of the National Basic Training Plan was drawn up, which could then be placed at the government's table. Honourable Congressman, Anyone who had any comments, not only in the field of what you said, but also in any other field, could safely do one of the most transparent, in fact, in the most transparent national basic curriculum preparation process since the change of regime. It is also included in our Fundamental Law that everyone's physical and mental health must be preserved. Obviously, this is also the task of the National Master's Plan in all fields, obviously the daily physical education serves this physical side, and obviously all other emotional development and the development of responsibility is equally important in school. Just don't get the wrong idea of what we're talking about, and what we're not, because what we're not used to talking about, though you said that about us, as if you'd like to get involved in this, like at school. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] through the children. So I'm a little bit of a politician's competence in this. [[The president's ringing again.]] I'd like to ask you to respect that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-11-44	Dear Parliament, Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Plan a port between Balatongyörök and Vonyarcvashegy? It's an address. Here you go.
u2019-11-11-45	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Due to the fall of the past years in Balaton, there is a very low level of confidence in the government on this issue. We've seen what development in Balaton means to you: cutting down trees, exterminating reeds, and fewer and fewer green surfaces. Now another big investment is exciting the Balatonians. According to news, the Central Transdanubian Water Management Directorate is planning an industrial port on the northern shore of Lake Balaton, at the border of Balatongyörök and Vonyarcvashegy. Civilians have launched a petition against the investment, which has now been signed by more than ten thousand people. In the petition they write:. The St. Michael's Chapel is one of the most important Balaton cultural heritage, a sacral place! The Vonyarcvashegy people have a number of events to remember that according to popular belief, the church was built in 1729 by the 40 fishermen who escaped from a devastating Balaton storm on ice tablets. From the top of St. Michael's Hill, the visitor can have a view of heaven. Here the earth hugs with glittering water and the sky, to see the entire region of West Balaton. Objection! We don't want industrial fleets and other vessels here. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Secretary of State, Will there be an industrial port in the protected area? Despite the thousands of protesters, did the government authorize this? Yes or no, because that's what the locals want you to do. Thank you.
u2019-11-11-46	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Member that, by answering this question, the Prime Minister has appointed Minister for the Interior, Sándor Pintér, who is responsible for the subject, who asked Mr Károly Kontra to answer the question. Here you go.
u2019-11-11-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Government Decree governing the conditions for the establishment of ports makes the establishment of ports subject to a number of conditions. One of the most important of these is that a port can only be established in accordance with the local municipal building regulations or settlement planning. In other words, it is the municipality that determines where and what ports can be built. In order to protect the water quality of Lake Balaton, ideas are being developed on issues concerning the operation and maintenance of the lake. This process will be concluded on 20 December, and society, the population, civil society organisations and local authorities can of course express their views on it. Comments and opinions will determine the fate of further planning options. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-11-48	Dear Parliament, Congressman János Pócs, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: It's an address. Mr János Pócs has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-11-11-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, At the beginning of October, a new six-group, eight-seat municipal cradle was handed over in Jászberény, the capital of Jászság. By September, 150 kindergarten and 14 crèches were modernised and 14 crèches were created in the Jászladány kindergarten and nursery. The latter two have also resulted in new day care jobs. The development of Jászfőszentgyörgy is also worth mentioning, as the municipality has successfully applied for new cradle seats, and in the village a seven-group cradle is created with the expansion of a new building. [[12.40]] As seen across the country, the government's family support programme, including the expansion of cradle seats, works. More and more people across the country are using one of these grants. It is in our common interest that our children be brought up in an appropriate nursery environment. That is why, with all due respect, I ask the Secretary of State, we expect further developments in the nursery in Jászság. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-11-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary Retvári responds. Here you go.
u2019-11-11-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think that many families in Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok county can also be happy that Hungary has a civil government, because it is not about austerity that Hungarian family policy is about providing new opportunities. Thus, in Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok county, 446 completely new cradle seats are created, and 736 seats are upgraded and 25 settlements are affected overall. Of these 25 settlements, 10 were not previously available in the settlement, such as Jászfényszaru, Kunmadaras, Rákócziújfalu, Besenygög, Tiszakürt, Jásszentandrás, Tiszavárkony, Jászfőszentgyörgy, Jászjakóhalma and Jásztelek. Thus, families where they have children or think about having children, and an important aspect is that the mother or, where appropriate, the father wants to go back to work as soon as possible, they want to have children and work alongside them, but they would use the possibility that the government will provide for the possibility of going back to work from the age of six months and, in addition, the support for the child will be available, well, for them there will be more and more nursery seats. Many seats have been created in Hungary since 2010. At the time, the number of cradle seats was around 26-27 thousand, and now we are well over 50,000, so we can say that we have nearly doubled the number of cradle seats in the first nine years of our government. But we would like to increase this to 70,000 until June 30, 2022, so basically all crèches in Hungary are satisfied. In addition, at this autumn's session, we will decide on the introduction of the Grandparent child, which will also broaden the opportunities for day care, because who still has an active parent and would take care of the grandchild as a grandparent, we will also open this option in his case. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-11-52	Thank you very much. Mr Ander Balázs, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Hüp-hüp-hüp, Barba-trick: return what they have taken. Or the big teacher's wage increase. It's an address. Here you go, and thank you very much for giving me this address for you.
u2019-11-11-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for an excellent meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Last week, during the debate on Tuesday, the Jobbik faction also expressed its opinion on the draft VET law. I told myself that there was nothing to point back at, because nine and a half years would have been enough for Fidesz to fix the problems of home-based vocational training. The brutal selection mechanisms of public education, which is unrevealed in fairness, which is why it produces bad results, have created VET shelters, following the words of my former students, so-called gladiators, where it is sometimes better for the teacher, the instructor, to go to classes with a bodyguard. Minister of State Bódis was, by the way, very, very gentlemanly, and unlike other members of the government, let's say, the specific, disturbing issues of the Sehallselat Dömötör-i and cynical retourisms, he did not do so, but a lot of opposition claims were still embezzled in the closing words of his author. The proposal would take away the status of civil servant, but they promise a 30% wage increase for all teachers working in vocational training, not only for teachers teaching professional and public knowledge. This wage increase is a welcome thing, but let's not forget: the Fidesz government has torn the projection fund used in the calculation of teachers' wages away from the minimum wage and frozen it at the 2014 level, thus taking up to 100,000 forints a month, so the amount of the now promised increase away from the teachers. With all due respect, it would not be possible to give this well-deserved increase in addition to maintaining the status of civil servant, by now Romanian teachers are earning more than their domestic colleagues. I would add that the increase would not cost more than, let's say, the cost of Puskás Stadium on an annual basis, or a 30-mile section of the Budapest-Belgrád railway, which will never return from Chinese credit. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
u2019-11-11-54	Thank you very much. Secretary Bence Rétvári, please.
u2019-11-11-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Let me answer you with a movie title, even if it's not a children's movie: Look who's talking. That's the congressman. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Knockout! Zsolt Gréczy: Look who's talking!]] who was here at the time of the amendment of the Public Education Act, when he could have supported the provision of additional wages to teachers, who could have supported a salary increase to the head of the institution, but did not vote for it. The one who campaigns with them wants to lead cities in an alliance with them and the country, who locked them at 381 places on the doors of the school buildings and locked them forever, so that students can't go there. [[Ander Balázs: Like who?]] You're talking about how much better it would be to have more teachers and who took a month's full wages from all Hungarian teachers. Now that congressman stands up and says, [[Z. Dániel Karpát: What is the representative like? Don't be a clown.]] There's a lot more to pay here, a lot more to go on. [[Ander Balázs: A hundred thousand forints a month!]] Honourable Congressman! [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You've got the wrong house!]] In recent years, a 50 percent... [[Ander Balázs: Nine and a half years of government!]] I didn't miss the house, Your Honour. You are now proud everywhere of how successful and what you would bring, honourable Member, as new members of the left-wing alliance, you have been celebrating before the agenda. [[Z. Kárpát, Daniel: You are proud of III/II. Your leaders and your ex-KIS secretaries? Talk about it if you want to. Most communists are at your house!]] In recent years, teachers' salaries have been increased by 50 percent. If you look at what you did not support, how much more we can spend next year on schools, education, students, a surplus of HUF 60 billion in one year, and since 2010, 645 billion, the largest part of which is 355 billion every year, the surplus that we can devote to educator wage increases. Whoever made 173 thousand forints at the beginning of our government now makes 335 thousand forints. We trust we can raise this further, but this increase is already visible. And what I can tell you about the amendment to the VET Act is that there is a much more practical amendment on the table for the Austrian model, which is more practical for the benefit of students and for the future of the country. We'll see if you can vote for that. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-11-56	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Before continuing our work, on your behalf I welcome the Kodály Zoltán High School in Pécs and the Vas County Vocational Training Center III. The students of Béla's Secondary School and Secondary School and the teachers' colleagues. I'm glad you're here. Good afternoon. Dear Parliament, Member Sándor Szabó, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance a question: how and when do you want to solve the electronic reference for all those receiving pensions and social benefits? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-11-57	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Minister Mihály Varga reported at the last meeting of the National Competitiveness Council that the aim was to increase the payment by electronic bank transfer for a significant proportion of pensions and social benefits. This ratio is currently 50 percent. On the one hand, this should be supported, since the future is obviously the electronic payment and the cash flow will be reduced, but on the other hand it is precisely the circle, pensioners and those in social benefits, for whom it is felt, that there is no accident that they are asking for the payment, because a significant part of these people do not have a bank account or a bank card. This is obviously primarily because many people live in settlements where there is no credit card payment, no ATMs, and if they do, then there may not be an automatic belonging to the bank from which he can withdraw cash. This kind of payment would therefore entail significant additional costs for them. Obviously, bank accounts also have costs on an annual or monthly basis. This is also a significant expense for pensioners. In some way, therefore, it should be possible for pensioners or those in social benefits to make up for these extra costs, if this is already the intention, either by imposing a zero-forint bill or a zero-forint card use, especially if, in some way, pensioners or those in social benefits are forced to do so. That is why I am asking how and when they want to solve electronic transfers for all those who receive pensions and social benefits and how they will compensate for the additional costs incurred, obviously mainly for those who receive low benefits. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[12.50]]
u2019-11-11-58	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Sándor Bodó, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, responds. Here.
u2019-11-11-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Congressman! Maybe let me start by saying what a difference it is. During your administration, pensioners were severely reduced, a month's pension was taken from them, a gas price increase, a VAT on food, and now the biggest problem is when they will receive it electronically or under what conditions. Well, Mr President, it is obviously impossible in its entirety to open up a series of negotiations that were on the agenda of the National Competitiveness Council, but the intention is quite clear that the extension of electronic means of payment should go as far as possible. Of course, we need to see European relations. In Hungary, the rate of cash use in the European Union is still perhaps one of the highest, which is obviously also a negative story for the black economy. So the direction is quite clear that we have to go this way. On the other hand, I fully agree with you that the introduction of this would be a very serious problem in many places, given certain ages. Our young friends, who sit here on the gallery, may hardly be able to imagine their lives without a credit card, or as soon as they are grown up without a credit card, but there are some honest people who have never used this device before in their lives, and they may not even plan it anymore. Therefore, there is a principled objective here, and there is no obligation to speak about the electronic arrival of pensions or other benefits. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-11-60	Dear Parliament, Congressman László Varju, representative of the Democratic Coalition, would like to ask the Minister of Interior a question: "Where are the negotiations between the Government and the New Pest Self-government on the recovery of the ÁRPÁD Ház? It's an address. Here you go.
u2019-11-11-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I think it is also known to you that, after local protests and demands, the previous body of Újpest's municipality decided to submit a free claim to the Hungarian State to return the property of Árpád Hospital in order to continue operating in the hospital. The Panel has contributed to the negotiations, to the conclusion of the agreement, and has taken all necessary powers to acquire this property. However, after 13 October, he became a new body of representatives. After all this, I would like to ask how we can continue, how we can continue the work. I have three questions for the Secretary of State. The first is that the government indicated in its decision No 1194, the construction of the building in question as a worker's hostel. When did the government withdraw this decision? Where are the negotiations on the transfer of free wealth? And, of course, it is very important for us to keep the government's promise of transferring assets to the previous body and to the mayor, or to consider it a pre-election communication that, in truth, cannot be complied with by the government. In conclusion, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State when, on the initiative of the Municipality of Újpest, the hospital in Újpest will be able to negotiate in substance. Thank you very much, I look forward to your reply. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-11-11-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary Tibor Pogácsás responds. Here you go.
u2019-11-11-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The tasks to be carried out directly by the municipalities and the State are laid down in the legislation, and the municipal law also sets out precisely the mandatory tasks of the municipalities and includes the tasks that the municipalities can carry out as a voluntary task. The government, each current government, has determined on the basis of its own political and public good decisions what institutional system it operates. This was the case when you ran the country, and this was the case when you ended hospital beds and transformed hospitals into practically secluded hospitals, and so is the case now when the municipalities can influence with their own regulatory plans, their own decision-making mechanism, what investments are to be made in their own territory. And as you have prevented hospitals from operating in government positions, hospitals have been closed down, hospital beds have been closed down, and now as mayors, you want to prevent hospital building in the capital. So, clearly, they're consistent. The government has actually decided on the construction of the building in Újpest. This is a state-owned building, so the State has the opportunity to decide whether to exploit it. I would like to stress that there has never been such a promise that the government will return this to the municipality, especially for hospital purposes, since the municipalities do not run hospitals. There are no negotiations on the exploitation of the building at the moment. Obviously, the Ministry of Interior is open to conducting negotiations in accordance with its respective objectives. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-11-64	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade:. What Hungarian interest is the introduction of the Dunakesti Vehicle Repair in Russian hands? It's an address. Congresswoman, please.
u2019-11-11-65	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. It has been more than a year since I first asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs about the project on railway vehicles to be delivered to Egypt. Since then, he has repeated this many times, but so far I have received only meaningless, evasive answers. Now I'm trying again. Russian Transmasholding intends to purchase half of the part of Dunakeszi Vehicle Repair, i.e. the Russian company can gain substantial or majority influence over the Hungarian consortium member, which can transport railway wagons to Egypt. By the way, ownership takes place without competition. Since then, Csepel Holding has also appeared in the case as a potential supplier, it appears that it is at the request of the Russian company. So I think the questions are multiplying rather than you answering them. In response to last week's interpellation, you, Minister of State, once again avoided replying, claimed that the project was about the domestic production of 1300 railway wagons, but on the same day Direkt36 wrote on the basis of your communication that the Hungarian supplier ratio required for the loan to be granted by Eximbank will be met with at least 50 percent of the ordered 1,300 railway wagons being completed in Hungary. Egypt Today also wrote on the subject that according to the contract 650 cars will arrive from Hungary, 500 from Russia, and the remaining 150 will be produced in Egypt under Russian supervision. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State what Hungarian interest the handing in of the Dunakeszi Vehicle Repair is in Russian hands. What were the reasons why the Hungarian Government should decide to sell its own MÁV ownership in Dunakeszi Vehicle Repair Ltd. to a company where Transmasholding is the owner? What elements of Egyptian railway wagons are manufactured by Dunakeszi Vehicle Repair, and what elements are the Hungarian companies involved in supplying? In total, what will be the added value of Hungary in terms of railway wagons, or will new jobs be created in Hungary in relation to the production of Egyptian railway wagons in the future? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2019-11-11-66	Thank you very much. Mr Tamás Menczer, State Secretary, responds. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-11-11-67	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I am sorry to hear that you are not satisfied with my previous answers and answers, so I will try to inform you once again about the railway project. But before I get to that point, allow me to express my deep disappointment at the fact that you recently provided classified military information to the press and leaked, disclosed, and distorted. [[Márta Demeter: Secretary of State, answer the question.]] As I understand it, this case is being held in the press at the arraignment department, and I would like to ask you with interest to complete this practice, to comply with the laws, not to leak classified information, and certainly not to distort them. [[Márta Demeter: Answer my question, Secretary of State.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and With regard to railway wagons: unfortunately, I see from time to time that you are attacking this project, although it is indeed about the construction of 1300 railway wagons in Hungary and Russia. We are talking about a big project of over $1 billion, a huge investment, which is a great success for the Hungarian economy. I would like to inform you, in relation to your written and earlier questions and resolutions, that Eximbank cannot join or stand up for a partner. Eximbank can finance projects and partners that can carry out the task. [[13.00]] This is a relatively important, objective condition for funding so that someone can do this. If you can do it, Eximbank can lend, provide financing; and under statutory obligation, Eximbank only finances a project where at least 50 percent of the product produced is a Hungarian product with Hungarian origin. And I would like to inform you in three seconds about the sale of Dunakeszi Vehicle Repair that the company that buys it has a large share of French ownership. Please take a look at this as well, and the Danube Vehicle Repair will be able to access markets that you would never have been able to access. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-11-68	Dear Parliament, Congressman Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Does Huawei's role in building the 5G network pose a national security risk? It's an address. I would like to inform Mr President that, by answering this question, the Prime Minister has appointed Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior, who is competent on the subject, and, at the request of the Minister, Mr Károly Kontra will actually answer the question. Here you go.
u2019-11-11-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, On 5 November, Minister of Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó announced in Shanghai that the construction of the Hungarian 5G network will take place with the participation of the Chinese technology giant Huawei. The scandals surrounding the Chinese company raise the question of how safe it is to rely on their products for this investment. Huawei may pose a national security risk, so they have to answer why the Hungarian government is not working with the Finnish Nokia or the Swedish Ericsson instead of Huawei. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Several times in recent years, the Fidesz government has faced Europe for China. In July 2016, an EU declaration was vetoed that would have welcomed the decision on a territorial dispute between the Philippines and China. In March 2017, he vetoed the only way for the European Union to sign a joint letter to torture lawyers detained in China. In April 2018, the EU External Action Service wanted to call on China to comply with human rights and international law in a declaration and to require Member States to weed out propaganda Chinese terms from any agreement with China. The Fidesz government threatened a veto and then left out the signature of the report. After the meeting of the Visegrád Four and Japan in autumn 2018, they could not agree on a joint declaration because Viktor Orbán insisted that a reference be made to maritime safety and the South China Sea debate. Finally, Fidesz is about to lobbie China into the UN Human Rights Council, which has 1 million Uighurs in reeducation camps, builds an observer state and develops tools for total repression. Please answer, Minister, after all this, whether you have considered the national security risk of entrusting the 5G network to a Chinese company. How does the decision affect our membership of the North Atlantic Alliance and would it not have been better to work with European partners in the current technological Cold War? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Car-Cake Olivio applauds.]]
u2019-11-11-70	Thank you, Congressman Bence of Tordai. I give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Kontra.
u2019-11-11-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Today, security is the most important community value, the security of the Hungarian people is the first for the government. This is also the case for the construction of the 5G network in Hungary. Risks related to cybersecurity in the 5G network are monitored by the competent national bodies, in cooperation with international partners. Hungary, like the Member States of the EU, has made a professional decision on the involvement of Huawei in the construction of the 5G network. It is important to point out that Hungary is not building a 5G network, but telecommunications companies providing services in domestic areas. In several countries of Europe, the 5G service is still available partly, partially or entirely with the use of Huawei's network elements. In Hungary, the existing and built network will not consist exclusively of Huawei's assets, but also of products from other manufacturers. The competitiveness of Hungary, the success of Hungarian businesses, Hungarian families and educational and research institutions are fundamentally determined by the results achieved in the field of digitalisation. The government intends that the new application opportunities of the 5G network will benefit all Hungarian businesses and all Hungarian people. The Electronic Communications Act regulates in detail the requirements concerning the security of communications and the protection of subscriber data managed in the provision of communications services. So for the sake of safety, what you asked is a very important legal guarantee that exists. The service provider shall ensure that the data transmitted are not unduly intercepted, stored or monitored and that unauthorised or accidental access to traffic data is prevented. The National Media and Infocommunications Authority supervises and carries out compliance with the requirements. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-11-72	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Péter Ágh, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Where is the preparatory work currently taking place and what further steps are expected in connection with road development between Szombathely-Kőszeg? Mr Péter Ágh has the floor.
u2019-11-11-73	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Since 2010, we have seen that the development of road connections is of strategic importance for the Government of Hungary. As a sign of this, the construction of motorways and motorways received a new impetus. The aim of this work is to facilitate the approach of county seats, while at the same time ensuring strategic road construction. This is a priority for Vas county, since both the county seat and the region needed to join the European road network in a qualitative way. The M86 road was built for this purpose, which has fulfilled its expectations since its construction. However, we were pleased to see that the possibility of development did not stop. In the framework of the Modern Cities Programme, the agreement envisaged a new approach towards Kőszeg. The preparatory work on this has been launched, which is particularly important for us. It is important, because this is, on the one hand, a new way to Vienna. It is important because it can be of strategic importance to the city of Kőszeg. It is important because small settlements are exempt from transit traffic, so their location makes it significant for Gencsapati, Gyöngyösfalu and Lukeháza. Dear Secretary of State, Based on all this, the travel news in Vas County is closely monitored. Therefore, I respectfully ask where the preparatory work is currently and what further steps are to be taken in connection with the road development between Szombathely and Kőszeg. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-11-74	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2019-11-11-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government treats the development and safety of Hungary's road transport as a top priority. The expansion and modernisation of the public network greatly contributes to the sustainable growth of the Hungarian economy, the improvement of the quality of life of Hungarian families and the strengthening of the countryside. The priority objective of the 3200 billion HUF road programme is to connect cities with county rights on two-track highways to the motorways, motorways and highways to the national borders, and to have a four-track road section within 30 minutes from any part of the country. Thanks to the dynamic development and performance of the Hungarian economy, we provide a larger proportion of the budget for all these developments from domestic budgetary sources. As part of the road infrastructure development programme, the development of the road link between Szombathely and Kőszeg is also being prepared. As part of the planning task, the evaluation study plan and the environmental plan have been completed so far, and the proposed path for implementation has been selected. Accordingly, the road between Szombathely and Kőszeg is built twice in 14 kilometres, with two two lanes of physical separation, and twice as a one-track main road, the four,7 km long road that runs from Kőszeg from the east to the border. [[13.10]] The environmental authorisation of the project started in October, preparing the procurement procedure for the preparation of the permit plans will be carried out by the colleagues. The completion of permit plans and the acquisition of building permits are expected in the second half of 2021. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-11-76	Thank you, Secretary of State, Tamás Schanda. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of Interior a question: - Is it safe to entrust the construction of the Hungarian 5 G network to the Chinese Huawei company? It's an address. Mr László György Lukács has the floor.
u2019-11-11-77	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The Minister of Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó announced in China that the fifth generation mobile communications network is being built in Hungary with the assistance of the Chinese network company Huawei. This assignment to build the most modern telecommunications network is also odd because the Chinese giant company has been accused for years by the United States of having in its various instruments components suitable for espionage, with which the devices can transmit important, even confidential, data to China. No matter how many times this goes before this House, we can say that it is important, and the situation is so tense that the United States has literally started a trade war against the Chinese company. Many people in Europe are concerned about the expansion of the company. For example, according to the Commission, there is an increased security risk to the participation of third country companies, in particular Chinese companies, in the deployment of the fifth generation mobile communications networks. But for security reasons, in addition to the United States, Australia has already excluded the Chinese company from the development of 5G networks, stating that Beijing can use the company's equipment for espionage because Chinese law forces these companies to cooperate with local intelligence. Despite all these dangers, however, our country is still using the help of the Chinese giant company, it is expected to counter global trends. This action not only raises concerns, especially from domestic data and information security aspects, but it is also expected that our federal policy will not be particularly better. Dear Secretary of State, In view of all this, I would ask that you answer honestly below and consider the depth of your answer, since it is important to answer why it is so important that Huawei can be given the opportunity to build the network in Hungary. Do you not consider the Minister's announcement that the Chinese company will build the 5G network in Hungary to be a security concern? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Will the data and information of domestic telephone users and even public organisations be secure? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-11-78	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2019-11-11-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I have just answered Bence Tordai's question, Mr President, and he has asked a similar question. I'm sorry you weren't in the room. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: Yes, you can. He's one of the notaries.]] Sorry, I'm glad you were in the room. [[Defiance.]] I'd like to add that I'm being honest about every question, and I'm still being honest about it. Then, Mr President, you have heard everything, and I would like to say that security is the most important Community value in Hungary. For the government, the security of the Hungarian people comes first. The risks related to cybersecurity in the 5G network are continuously monitored by the competent national bodies, in cooperation with international partners. Hungary, like the EU countries, has decided on the involvement of Huawei in the construction of 5G networks on a professional basis. I would also like to point out that in several countries of Europe, 5G services are still available, partly or entirely, using the network elements produced by Huawei. Our aim is that Hungary's competitiveness, the success of Hungarian businesses, Hungarian families, educational and research institutions are fundamentally determined by the results achieved in the area of digitalisation, which we want to promote. The Electronic Communications Act regulates in detail the requirements concerning the security of communications and the protection of subscriber data managed in the provision of communications services. So the legal conditions of safety, consumer and user safety are guaranteed, compliance with the standards is supervised and carried out by the National Media and Infocommunications Authority. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-11-80	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. When will a real wage increase take place in the social sector? What happened to promises made to trade unions and industry? It's an address. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor.
u2019-11-11-81	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, November 12th is Social Work Day. On this occasion, I would like to draw attention to the sector's most pressing problem, which is the wage situation. According to the latest data, the average net earnings of those working in the social services sector was 170 thousand forints per month, if you look at data without public employees. We are talking about only 114 thousand forints. In any case, this is the lowest in all sectors. This amount is 70 percent of the total net earnings in all sectors; if we include the public workers, we are talking about only 48%. This means, therefore, that no matter what the government's substitute has done, to this day the 100,000 people who work in social care make an unacceptable amount of money. The number of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion is nearly two million in Hungary today. They are the ones who are long - term unemployed, people in income poverty and people who are severely deprived, families. These 100,000 people, whom we welcome today, whose work, profession, and vocation we honor today, are basically working for this social group. But their work is important not only to them, but to the whole of society, because it is in all our interests that all members of society can live in decent conditions. Tomorrow's a public holiday for social workers. It is worth noting that when the Government decided to do so, it also decided to terminate another day, the day of the former public service workers, and to replace it for this working day. I would like to ask the Secretary of State very well that tomorrow the representative of the government will discuss with the leaders of the social workers' union, that they can finally agree on a normal wage increase, and we can now say that they appreciate the work of these people, or what is expected tomorrow, that a strike really needs to be prepared in the interests of the 100,000 people working. True, we can also say that you by all means [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] stop this strike from happening. [[The president's ringing again.]] What's the outcome of the trial tomorrow? Will these people finally get their raises? Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2019-11-11-82	Thank you very much. Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2019-11-11-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, You began your speech by saying that tomorrow is the day of social work. Let us add that you did not vote for this holiday here in Parliament. So you are referring to this, but when you could have supported it with your vote, you did not support the introduction of this day, when we pay particular attention to the workers in the social sphere, and indeed, as you said, this is a public holiday for them. They did not pay attention to social workers when a month's wages were taken from them, honourable Member. You say now that the most important issue is the wage issue. Then why have you reduced your wages to those working in the social sphere, each with a monthly wage? Then why did they cut the boarding-normative rate by HUF 30,000, with HUF 100,000 for those with special care? Why have the incomes of the institutions been reduced, from which the wages can be managed at all? You have said that there are more people in Hungary who are at risk of poverty or social exclusion, but you have forgotten to say, Madam honourable Member, that there are now about one and a half million fewer people than in 2010, when you were the last to govern. Raising wages in the social sphere was also a priority for the government. You talked about average wages, but you didn't say that in the last two or three years, the average salary has risen by HUF 70,000, because we managed to raise wages. In 2014, we introduced the social sector bonus, which meant a surplus of HUF 14 billion. In 2015, we introduced an additional bonus of 7.6 billion from the second half of the year, and then obviously a full year of money from 2016; so we provided double this, worth approximately HUF 15-16 billion, so we had the sectoral wage supplement and the sectoral wage supplement. This was followed by increases in later years [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and the consequence is that if you look at how the social sector has changed between 2010 and 2020 [[The president's ringing again.]] you can experience an increase of about 80 percent. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.20]]
u2019-11-11-84	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Gréczy, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Thousands of families are waiting for an answer: will the language exam for university admission be cancelled? It's an address. Mr Zsolt Gréczy has the floor.
u2019-11-11-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, For months, the Democratic Coalition has asked for it, but the other opposition parties have also demanded that the Orbán government do not make the language exam mandatory for university admission. This condition can only be met by students who are born to better families and/or students of a high school with a sufficient number and quality of language teachers. Where there is no special teacher, where education is not sufficient for a language exam, there are also talented children who want to go to college. Why shouldn't they become doctors, economists, lawyers, engineers, just because they perform outstandingly or well in Hungarian, history, mathematics, biology, chemistry, but they may not be able to pass the language exam for the success of admissions without their own fault? This debate has been opened several times in the Parliament's Cultural Committee, where we opposition representatives have spoken several times, and the Fidesz MEPs have always been humming that there will be a decision about this, but rather they have defended that the language exam should be mandatory. Luckily, in recent days, a decision has been made to terminate this obligation for the time being, which we are pleased to see, because students with talent, but who do not speak a language, are still getting into higher education; and above all, I would like to clarify that we are not against the language exam. It is very important that as many children as possible speak as many languages as possible, but we look forward to the government's measure that this is now a permanent abolition or a few years' moratorium. Is there an action plan that allows as many students as possible to pass this language exam before admission? But for this to happen, the whole Hungarian language education needs to be reviewed, so the various levels of development of schools need to be reviewed, so I look forward to Mr. State Secretary's reply on this matter. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-11-86	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2019-11-11-87	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to begin by saying that there is no doubt about the beauty of the Hungarian language, but there is also no doubt that its cactusiness, diversity, and proper use of its rules require great attention from its user. Because the title of your question is "Thousands of families are waiting for the answer: will you cancel the language exam for university admission? It means that we will abolish the need for university admission for language examination. Honourable Congressman, The government never had a plan like that and we never planned it. If you were thinking that the language exam needed for admissions, then the government decision on Wednesday must be known, but I'm happy to answer it. Honourable Congressman, We listened with some reservations to your words after it was your boss, Ferenc Gyurcsány who, by introducing the tuition fee, would have taken away the chances of young people getting a degree. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the referendum initiated by Fidesz and KDNP could only prevent it. I would also like to point out that the government still considers it important for professionals to emerge from universities with adequate professional knowledge and language skills. In today's world, language skills are essential for competitive knowledge, and it is also important for university education, since many scientific resources are only available in foreign languages. The language requirement to be introduced in the higher education admission process by 2020 was published by the government already in 14 years. The time allowed for those who wish to enter higher education to meet the conditions of entry. At the same time, we listened to the opinions of professional organisations and students. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and in order to make an even better decision, the government has decided that it will not be imposed as an input requirement [[The president's ringing again.]] Language skills, but at the same time extra points for language exams. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-11-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. We are meeting the renewable target with stolen firewood? You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-11-11-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Hungary has committed 14.65 per cent of renewable energy in the European Union by 2020. According to 2017 data, we stand at 13.3 percent, so we seem to be on the right track, but appearances are deceiving.In 2017, there was a change in the statistical production of domestic firewood. In the past, only the quantities reported by foresters from demonstrably sustainable sources were accounted for. However, according to the new methodology, the use of firewood is estimated during the collection of the household, budget and living conditions of KSH, based on the responses of the population. With this trick, we managed to increase the use of firewood by two and a half times. As the firewood accounts for 80% of the total renewable energy consumption, the new calculation methodology also increased the total renewable energy consumption rate by 5 percentage points, which already makes the target achieved. Dear Secretary of State, How accurate is KSH data considered? How is it explained that there is a great difference between the use of firewood from a sustainable forest farm and the use of firewood by the public? Given the fact that Hungary is a net exporter of firewood, it is believed that the population is also burning large quantities of illegally harvested firewood, coal and waste, which are also highly polluting. There is no guarantee that illegally harvested trees will be replaced. I ask: has it been acceptable for the government to meet the EU renewable energy target with illegally harvested firewood and questionable calculation? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2019-11-11-90	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2019-11-11-91	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The fact is that when you question the importance of providing data to the Central Statistical Office, you ignore the fact that KSH is only an independent body reporting to Parliament, whose operating framework is governed by law. Therefore, if you notice a discrepancy between the data, please make your comments primarily to the Office, because the government has no business here. I would like to note here that, unlike you, Eurostat, the statistical body of the European Union, does not question the reliability of the work of the HCSO, but uses the information provided by the Office. That may even be an acceptable argument for you. With regard to the statistical data on the use of renewable energy, I would like to tell you that the methodology used is also used in other countries. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In your speech, you accuse Hungarian people who use firewood from a non-sustainable forest farm to heat with stolen wood. I would like to point out that the domestic firewood used does not come exclusively from forest farms, there are many other legal forms of trade. As far as the use of firewood is concerned, I must say that energy poverty for the government, i.e. that the poorest people cannot heat up their homes, is totally unacceptable. That is why we support local authorities in purchasing fuel for social purposes. As a result, almost 2400 municipalities can deliver firewood to the needy in this winter. In addition, we are planning additional programmes aimed at addressing energy poverty, protecting air quality and ensuring an adequate level of comfort for those in need. Fidesz-KDNP government [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] He's doing everything in his power to create the world. Man is part of this world outside of nature. In this spirit, we do our job. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-11-92	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture, when will he end the dangerous waste case in Kiskunhalas? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor. [[13.30]]
u2019-11-11-93	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In the centre of my constituency, Kiskunhalas, there has been a serious environmental incident for many years, which still does not seem to be resolved. Although in the outer part of the city, but in the neighbourhood of the residential houses, there is an abandoned hazardous waste site with a huge amount of harmful substances estimated to be more than a thousand tons. Larger plastic containers and smaller metal barrels contain paints, oils, solvents, acids and chemicals, as far as they are hidden, as some of the old materials, which are exposed to weather conditions, have already been removed. As early as 2016, non-accredited soil samples tested by environmental organisations were found to contain a number of metal and mineral oil contaminations in excess of limit values. For 9 of the 14 metal and semi-metallic components tested, the limit value for the geological medium was up to 11 times the limit value and the total mineral oil content was 143 times the limit value, and the samples tested later in the accredited laboratory were found to be severely exceeded. Although the problem has been going on for almost ten years, the ever deteriorating storage devices are still on the ground, in the midst of the inertia or inaction of the various authorities and government offices. In the meantime, the property has changed hands and the new owner is also trying to resolve the situation, but the letters of assistance sent to the ministries have not been appreciated. In addition to the time when it will finally end, so when the hazardous waste will be removed from Kiskunhalas, it is also an important question why the state cannot enforce the legislation and hold the people responsible for the situation. However, the main issue remains how long these substances pose a threat to the health of the Kiskunhalasians. It is therefore also an important issue to find those responsible, but the more important thing is that the Ministry responsible for this area finally takes action on the removal of pollutants, in the absence of those who are truly responsible. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-11-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. The question will be answered by Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2019-11-11-95	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in the case of serious pollution in Kiskunhalas, criminal proceedings have been initiated in parallel with the official procedure. In the judgment of the Kiskunhalas District Court, Bács-Reál Kft. has declared his former manager guilty of a violation of the order of waste management on hazardous waste, i.e. the current state of affairs, as a result of a criminal offence. The environmental authority ordered the administrator to restore its original status, and after that, neither he nor the later owners have complied with the obligation, the National Tax and Customs Office will carry out the implementation of the obligation, so that the disposal of the waste can be carried out at the earliest after the tax administration's enforcement procedure. According to surveys, the net cost of transporting and handling hazardous and non-hazardous waste on site is estimated at approximately HUF 380 million. One of the most important principles of waste management and environmental protection is the polluter-pays principle, which requires the enforcement of official procedures. Honourable Congressman, The current environmental status of the site is continuously examined by the environmental authority together with the Csongrád County Disaster Protection Directorate, but no immediate action was considered to be technically justified. The authorities shall take the necessary measures to exclude further pollution and to protect the environmental status of the area. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-11-96	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr László Hajdu, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance:. HOW DOES THE GOVERNMENT WISH TO SET THE EU CHALLENGES TO THE CHANGED CIRCUMSTANCES FROM THE TIME OF SUBMISSION? It's an address. Mr László Hajdu has the floor.
u2019-11-11-97	Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Annex XV is amended as follows: in the district, with the title "City Rehabilitation of Rákospalota" an application was submitted for the VEKOP project, and they also won HUF 1.5 billion. Within the deadline set, 50 percent of this, 750 million HUF, was transferred to the local government's special account. In the meantime, the preparations were being carried out for the conduct of public procurement, and there are tasks labelled for works in this context, and the preparation of them. Then from one moment to the next, it all happened three years ago, the 750 million forints, so 50 percent, had to be returned to the Hungarian Treasury. I would like to ask the Secretary of State how this type of proposal, which is called the "Competitive Central Hungary" operational programme, affects the competitiveness of local authorities, if 50 percent of it is to be used for soft tenders, of course we have accepted it, but in the meantime, there is a 20 percent increase in the construction sector over the three years, and a significant number of OKJ training should be provided according to the notice, but the OKJ applications have ceased in the meantime. I ask whether this proposal is still alive, whether it exists, whether someone will say it or continue to spend it on its preparation. At the otherwise zero self-strength investment, the municipality is in excess of 500 million, but we have not yet been able to call a penny. I ask what to do at a time like this, what the publishers will do. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-11-11-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. The question will be answered by Secretary of State Sándor Bodó.
u2019-11-11-99	Thank you very much. Mr President, Congressman! Dear House, In Budapest, the funding amount is indeed HUF 12.6 billion, similar projects have been implemented, and in your district, the amount was HUF 1.5 billion. In this context, as you have mentioned, it is true that municipal housing, public spaces, parks, playgrounds, green spaces have been renewed, and besides infrastructure developments, it was also a condition for the project to be part of the project that helps the disadvantaged population to catch up. There is no doubt that this is also necessary, and this was also necessary, so I think it is essential to monitor both components. It was also a condition for these programmes to reach at least 30% of the budget. Well, in answer to your question, for the projects supported, all the expectations and conditions of the call were also known when the grant agreement was signed. In areas with worse statistical indicators, so-called crisis blocks, an individual development plan for a minimum number of population is only expected. The content of the projects can be updated and amended in the 2014-2020 programming period on the basis of a government regulation on the way in which the funds from each EU fund are used. And my practical advice is to make sure that you contact the managing authority. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-11-100	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, would you like to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question:, Will you implement a central budget for the continuation of the asbestos removal programme in 2020? It's an address. The question will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister on behalf of László Palkovics, Minister of Innovation and Technology, who is responsible for the subject. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-11-11-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The European directive on the elimination of pollution caused by asbestos is also binding in Hungary. It is no coincidence that the national waste management plan for 2014-2020 set the target of removing and disposing of approximately 1.6 million tonnes of asbestos by 2030. However, the measures necessary to achieve the objective set are constantly being sabotaged by the government. Even though there have been surveys in the 1990s with the cooperation of the wallets responsible for environmental protection and health, and despite the start of implementation of the programme, unfortunately it stopped in the absence of a source. In recent years, the government has acted as if this problem did not exist and would not have an urgent task in this area. We've known for decades how unhealthy asbestos is, causing scarring in the lungs. [[13.40]] The risk of lung cancer has also been shown to increase with exposure to asbestos. And there is no small concentration in the air that would not pose a risk in up to 15-35 years of incubation. We're talking about thousands of homes, public buildings and thousands of people. It should not be possible to get there as the inhabitants of the settlements of Lőrinci and Zagyvasántó in Heves County: damages lawsuits against the Hungarian state due to asbestos diseases are most often concluded by relatives. That is why I ask, Mr Secretary of State: will you finally have enough resources for the scheduled implementation of the asbestos removal programme and an adequate amount of funding for this in the next budget? Thank you. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2019-11-11-102	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2019-11-11-103	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, allow me to show you with respect that there is a contradiction in your question. You claim that the removal of asbestos is being sabotaged by the Fidesz-KDNP government, but you also say that in the national waste management plan for the period between 14 and 20 we are dealing with the problem in substance, and that by 2030 we aim to remove 1.6 million tonnes of asbestos. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You have to admit, the two of them together are definitely not gonna hold their ground. Public asbestos has an extremely harmful effect on the environment, but even more so on human health. Therefore, the Government will address this issue with a high priority, in line with its weight, and will act with utmost care. Experts from the Ministry of Innovation and Technology have compiled the public asbestos program. This is intended to ensure the reception and proper disposal and handling of asbestos-containing building and demolition waste in a home-going system. This can significantly reduce the adverse effects of hazardous waste on the environment and human health and prevent illegal landfills. We also pay particular attention to ensuring that strict occupational safety and health standards are respected by all, including that asbestos removal activities are carried out by authorised contractors and that building materials containing asbestos which has become waste are transferred as hazardous waste to the recipient. The programme will apply the polluter-paying principle, together with [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We will, of course, also look at the possibilities to support professional remediation in addition to this principle. Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-11-104	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Balczó, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. How does the Government intend to stop the damage to nature on the shore of Lake Balaton? It's an address. Mr Zoltán Balczó has the floor.
u2019-11-11-105	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In the spring, the news revealed that on the shores of Balatonakali, at a width of 8-12 meters, the heavily protected reed was wiped out in lengths of 150 meters. The reed was destroyed near the former Holiday Camping area, where the construction of apartment houses is planned. In the first instance, the nature conservation authority fined a kft. for a million HUF, but the persons responsible for the damage to nature clearly could not be identified. As we know, reeds play a prominent role in the aquatic ecosystem: they provide a habitat for animals, and they also play an important role in the self-cleaning of water. It is of particular concern that, after the eradication, activities have been carried out that are likely not to restore the damage caused to nature. Compared to the price of coastal land, the fine imposed is not significant. In this situation, it is not apparent that public action is a deterrent to those who have violated the law. In view of the above, I would like to ask the Secretary of State in general terms a specific example: what does the Government intend to do to ensure that environmental legislation and procedures are sufficiently dissuasive in order to prevent similar damage? How does the government intend to limit other activities that are detrimental to the ecosystem of Lake Balaton, such as the uploading of beds or the cutting down of coastal forests? I look forward to the Secretary of State's substantive reply. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-11-106	Thank you, Congressman Zoltán Balczó. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas.
u2019-11-11-107	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Following the announcement of the reed killing to the general public, the Veszprém District Office, acting as a nature conservation authority, immediately carried out an on-the-spot inspection of the site of the campsite affected by the damage to nature and found that it was indeed the case of reed eradication. The area of the Balaton Medre is also a special conservation area of Natura 2000 and a special bird protection area. In these areas, under the relevant government regulation, cane management and other activities can only be carried out with the permission of a nature conservation authority. During the on-the-spot inspection, the authorities were not able to present the official authorisations for cane slaughter by the representatives of the real estate developer exercising the right to manage the area. In order to prevent further damage, the Authority immediately prohibited the company from carrying out any mechanical intervention in the affected area, in particular cane slaughter, reed cutting, bead cleaning, pederkotras and uploading, and imposed a fine in the event of a breach. At the same time, because of their previous activities, he also imposed a HUF 1 million nature reserve fine and ordered the real estate developer to restore the damaged area by giving him the opportunity to impose a new fine in the event of default. In my professional opinion, it is clear from what has been said that the government will act without delay and decisively against the harmful organisms of Hungarian natural resources, in which, given the gravity of the damage to nature, it will immediately prohibit the injured party from his illegal activity and impose a dissuasive penalty. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and requires that the original status be restored and, if necessary, notify the investigative bodies. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-11-108	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Farkas. Dear Parliament, We'll move on to immediate questions. Péter Jakab, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How long does the Government take advantage of people's patience? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr István Nagy, Minister of Agriculture, to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2019-11-11-109	Mr. President, I'd like to wait for Mr. Workaround, see if he can come by next week, and then we can talk.
u2019-11-11-110	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Tamás Sneider, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "How long does the Government take advantage of people's patience? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member, Mr Vice-President, whether he will accept the person of the response or ask the Minister for his answer in person.
u2019-11-11-111	I'll take it.
u2019-11-11-112	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Sneider, Vice President.
u2019-11-11-113	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, How much is it worth for you to appreciate social workers? It seems to be about that ten thousand workers in the social sector have decided to cease work in recent years. They're no longer preparing for the strike we've just announced, they've already left their profession in the past few days. It's been underway for nine years. Nine years ago, they promised to restore the respect of the profession without delay. [[13.50]] Appreciation was a subsidy to the industry in the form of under-the-table allowances or compensation. The payoff led to a fall in the entire sector's wages in nine years. Today, the wages of professionals working in the sector have been so severed from the Hungarian average wage that it is already endangering their livelihood. In January this year, in response to the strike announced by March, a significant pay gap was promised. The many honeycombs were pulled away in front of the increasingly poor workers, but nothing happened again. For nine years, they believed, hoped, fought for social workers, and still received almost nothing. You are now hiding behind the law, and if you must, you will not be afraid of intimidation, and now the strike announced on 13 November, hiding behind the mask of sufficient service, is being slylyly tried to make it impossible. There's been so much humiliation for social workers, it's hard to put into words. I'll ask the Secretary of State what they expect of the workers in return. On 13 November, the profession announced the day of social professional self-esteem and increased strike preparedness. Mr. Secretary, how long are you going to do this to these people? Please, listen to your conscience and answer me now. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-11-114	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2019-11-11-115	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It was important for the government to express its appreciation, both financially and morally, for those working in the social sphere, when it had the opportunity. That is why it was important that the opposition parties did not support it, but we declared the day of 12 November, tomorrow, as I said, the opposition parties did not support it, and we also tried to present an increase in wages. If you look at the wage mass in the social sphere, you can see that in 2019 the wage mass is 84 percent higher than in 2010, from which social institutions can farm. If you look at the additional benefits in the next year's budget, you can also see that there is a surplus of 40 billion in comparison to many previous, often sporadic, special funds, which makes the operation of social institutions much more predictable, not by tender or by specific items, but in advance and safely. In 2010, the number of employees in the social sector was 87 217 and in 2018 there were 99 thousand. So, honourable Member, the number of workers in the social sphere has increased, and since 2016, if you look at it, their wages have also increased by an average of 70,000 forints. In 2014, we provided a surplus of HUF 12 billion to pay the sectoral wage supplement, which meant an average increase of HUF 8800 to about 90,000 employees. In 2015, we introduced the sectoral wage supplement, which meant an average salary supplement of HUF 16,000 to 66 thousand employees. This meant HUF 16 billion a year, which has been undercover ever since. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and since then, further increases have been made. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-11-116	Thank you very much. You have the opportunity to rejoin Mr Vice-President, Congressman.
u2019-11-11-117	Mr. Secretary. Today, a social worker's salary is 50 kilos of pork. That's what a mother who works in this area can take home, to her family of four, she can give a child 40 ounces if she doesn't buy anything, if she doesn't spend any money, if she doesn't have a phone, and I can tell you more. But in reality, a social worker mom can put 10 ounces of pork each on her family's table today. We are there, as if the social profession were after the world war, or the situation of Hungary. It's a terrible thing to do. We're not getting an answer to that. That's why social workers are dissatisfied, and that's why they're constantly trying to protest, which you're preventing from making impossible for them. I ask you very much, Mr Secretary of State, to try to explain to the government that the situation is untenable, and this can no longer be borne by these people, this humiliation. But I'm asking you to give me at least 50 percent wage increase, not a wage supplement, not all kinds of supplements, after which a lot of things don't come along, but a 50 percent wage increase. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] For social workers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-11-118	Thank you very much. The rejoinder also deserves the Secretary of State.
u2019-11-11-119	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As I mentioned to you, incomes have increased by more than 50 percent in recent years. Those who have not voted on the basis of these increases can then demand a wage increase loudly here, but just not credible, honourable Member. For example, between 2012-2019, a worker with a professional qualification and such a grade earns 116 thousand forints more. A college-educated worker who works as a first-time carer earns 118 500 HUF more than in 2012. So we tried to make sure that there was a rise in wages for everyone everywhere. This was the result of negotiations. We're in this kind of negotiation right now. We are in these negotiations from month to month so that we can report such and similar increases in wages in the future. I regret that you will never support these economic policy and budgetary measures here in Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-11-120	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister without a wallet responsible for the management of national assets:. It is not an individual case, it is a total chaos. The Minister has appointed Mr János Fónagy Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask Congresswoman, she accepts the person who is responding.
u2019-11-11-121	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2019-11-11-122	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor.
u2019-11-11-123	Thank you, and thank you very much, for the reply from the Secretary of State to my interpellation last week, because I would like to take a little bit of it apart. Mr. Secretary of State told me that 3900 trains leave every day for my interpellation and 32 500 buses, and on my question of cleanliness, Mr. Secretary of State said that the number of upholstery cleaning has increased by 25 percent in recent years, but he also said that there have been nearly 4 million more people travelling on the railway since 2015 than before. Then basically no more cleaning will be done with a spark, because the number of passengers has increased by about 25 percent, so, Mr. State Secretary, there is no more cleaning on the Hungarian state railway, we passengers, we know that this is the case on a daily basis. The other thing you said, Minister of State, was that between 2014 and 2016, 63 new FLIRT trains were acquired and 20 new IC cars were set up as a result of the production of IC cars. If the number of passengers has increased by 4 million, Mr Secretary of State, and by the way, the age of assets, railway wagons and locomotives has often exceeded 40-50 years, then again they have not done anything in the last nine years, because as the number of passengers has increased, we note that the quality of services has not increased by anything. In addition, I would very much have liked you to accept my invitation, because on Monday, trains were an hour and thirty minutes late, and on Tuesday, when I went home, the same was the case. Last week, there was another tragedy who went to the train station and saw that the trains would not start again. There was another flight outage this morning, and now traffic stopped between Kisvárda and Nyíregyháza. Secretary of State, the state of the railway is invaluable, and the lack of money and the shortage of professionals are the greatest cause of this. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] When will there be any progress on the MÁV? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-11-11-124	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2019-11-11-125	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I've been preparing, trying to find dimensions appropriate to your questions. [[Defiance from the ranks of the MSZP.]] This year, the daily base data mentioned by you can be expected to be around 802,000 passenger trains for 159 years, the total delay of all trains was 2.9 years, and, ergo, there was a delay of 2 minutes for a train in 9 seconds. I know that when a train is late, it is not so late, only when you mention chaos and present a tragic picture of the situation of the entire Hungarian state railway, I would like to say that the person who plays with the numbers alone cannot show the real picture either with Parliament or with the public of the country. [[14.00]] For a moment, I do not dispute that tens of percent of the railways are delayed. In recent years, this has decreased year after year. We are not satisfied with the extent of the reduction, it would be better if there were a lot less delays. Please note that Hungary has one of the most dense railway networks in Central Europe, there are, indeed, lines that have not been renovated for several decades, and there are electricity lines that the maintenance company has not had to look at since 30 years ago. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] But overall, the Hungarian State Railways operate safely, and the Hungarian State Railways serve the interests of passengers safely. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-11-126	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2019-11-11-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You can't really get a full picture of the situation of the Hungarian State Railways from the State Secretary's car. I travel three or four or five times a week by train, and I don't experience these numbers as passengers, and these are not the numbers that the Secretary of State has told me. In 2018, passenger trains were delayed by 2 120 970 minutes, four years, three and a half years in 2017, so, this time is increasing, the situation is worse in 2018; and 2019 is not yet known. In addition, these data are cheating because the delays in 5 minutes and 59 seconds are not included in these data. In Hungary, we should not be able to sell a flight that would not be at least five minutes late, so even these four years do not reflect real data, Mr Secretary of State. Secretary of State, I do not argue that one of the best means of transport is the train. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] But as the conditions have been in place over the last few years, I believe that the passengers themselves are signaling the ministry, and even the passengers themselves have declared a strike this summer. [[The president's ringing again.]] Mr Secretary, I am only asking for their sake that we achieve some kind of improvement in this area.
u2019-11-11-128	Thank you very much. I have to tell you about the house rules, I'm sorry. The word is yours with the possibility of rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State.
u2019-11-11-129	Thank you very much. I report that I travel at least three or four times a week on one of Budapest's 11 suburban trains, so how should I put it? I'm asking you to negligate. But that's not the point. The point is that today we have flights in Esztergom, Vác, Székesfehérvár where we can give a European top level. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The development of the public service, including the development of railway infrastructure, is a very expensive thing; it is expensive to do it from European development, and it is expensive to do it from home. We're spending 1700 billion forints on it, and now it's on a number of lines. There is a comparison, some of which we know excellent, some where, yes, the task of the coming years is the 1700 billion that we are about to spend on the railway. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I hope you have a different opinion in a few years. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-11-130	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Doesn't the interest of the child matter? The address on the foster family situation. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister István Nagy to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2019-11-11-131	It's an interesting choice, but I accept your response.
u2019-11-11-132	Thank you very much. Then I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató.
u2019-11-11-133	Dear House, The previous debate would provoke me to report on my experience on the Lajosmizsei line [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] I have the vocabulary, but if you'll excuse me, I'd like to bring an even more important problem to Parliament today. In the last few weeks, another foster parent has been involved in a case that has caused full indignation, since a foster couple who had raised a child since the age of six months had taken their child after four and a half years, and this couple also initiated it to be adopted by this child. Nevertheless, they did not receive this child, but an alien couple, and an unusually fast procedure. Basically, they took this kid away from his foster family in a few days. I am sure we agree that this procedure is not in any way in the best interests of the child and is not acceptable in any way. Unfortunately, it's not the only case. There are other cases in the press, and there are foster parents who have contacted me personally, but they don't want their case to go public because they're afraid that other children will be taken away from them in this system. Of course, I am well aware that foster care is basically temporary placement, the right solution is adoption, but it is also quite clear that in these adoption cases the already established relationship between the foster family and the child should be taken into account, and if there is a need for another family to have the child, then this should take place in a humane and appropriate time. My question is whether the government plans to change legislation or other measures in order to avoid such cases.
u2019-11-11-134	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister István Nagy.
u2019-11-11-135	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, My dear fellow Member, My answer to your question is that, but, the child counts, the only thing that matters is the child's safety, that a child who loses his biological parents for one reason or another should find a family and be able to grow up under family circumstances. In Hungary, there is an institutionalized, established system that tries to work best. Obviously, it is a question of many parents, many foster parents, that is the quality and quality of this. But the goal is to put children in the best possible conditions, because I can almost say that it is always better than institutionalized care to have children in foster care and to grow up under family conditions. So, if you ask me, I'll always answer you that you need to put the background of foster care first. I don't know about the individual case, because obviously it's a unique case that needs to be examined separately, but the fact that a child belongs in a foster home is in the right place, that's for sure. If there is an emotional connection that the foster parent decides to adopt this child, then it is worth supporting, because there is an emotional connection between the child and the parent on which the education can be based, the caring love that will weave this child throughout his life. I can safely say that the work of foster parents is a nation-building responsibility to strengthen and protect families. I very much hope that every decision, every such relationship between a child and a foster parent, strengthens the possibility, strengthens the micro-social base that we call a family. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-11-136	Thank you, Minister. Congressman Gergely Arató has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2019-11-11-137	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply, and I am pleased that you have answered this question, because you are going to deviate from the pre-written text and give an honest and fair answer. I would very much like to thank those foster parents who often feel vulnerable and insecure. Obviously, I do not expect the Minister to give me a detailed professional answer, and I will also submit this question in writing to the wallet, and I hope to receive a professional reply from it, but thank you, Minister, for this reply.
u2019-11-11-138	Thank you, Congressman. You have the opportunity to respond in return. [[Dr. István Nagy says no.]] But you're not making the most of it, Minister. Thank you very much. [[14.10]] Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Do you want to change the government's environmental policy? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr István Nagy, Minister of Agriculture, to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman to accept the person to whom she is responding.
u2019-11-11-139	I'd love to hear from you, Minister, but I hope you'll forgive me, I'll wait for Prime Minister. Thank you.
u2019-11-11-140	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Foreign Minister an immediate question:. What is the national interest? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Tamás Menczer Secretary of State to respond to the urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the Minister for his answer in person.
u2019-11-11-141	I'll take it.
u2019-11-11-142	Thank you very much. Congressman Péter Ungár has the floor.
u2019-11-11-143	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The government regularly and much points out that the safe transport of natural gas will be the basis for Hungary's energy background over the next period, but, on the basis of the news of the past period, it can be stated that natural gas is not a security of supply, but a lack of supply. We know exactly that although the North Stream II. and Turkish Stream is about to be built in order to avoid Ukraine's transit, these gas pipelines will not be built on 31 December 2019, which is the announced deadline for the termination of the transport contract between Gazprom and Naftogaz. This means that it is not possible to know exactly how the gas will arrive in Hungary from 1 January 2020. On 5 November, the spokesperson of the Kremlin said that Vladimir Putin would stick to what he said at the press conference in Budapest that all disputes with Ukraine should be closed before the Russian party re-created the transport contract in Ukraine. I'd like to ask you the following questions. Can the government guarantee safe gas transport next year? Does this mean a retail gas price increase next year if Friendship can't guarantee a pipeline gas delivery? What progress has been made in gas transmission options that are not gas from the direction of Russia, I am thinking of the Romanian and Krki LNG terminals? If there were no progress in this, what economic consequences would there be if next year gas were to be purchased at world market prices if gas reservoirs were to be emptied sooner or later, because it would not last indefinitely? So my question is how the Russian relationship, which is so important to Hungary, can be converted into gas in Hungary next year. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2019-11-11-144	Thank you very much, Congressman Péter Ungár. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Tamás Menczer.
u2019-11-11-145	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You are absolutely right, this is a very important and serious question, which is why we are talking about this a lot. If you'll allow me, I believe that although there was more to what you have to say and several very correct statements, perhaps you're wrong about the way in which 2019. There is no uncertainty in the context of the period after 1 January 2006. Exactly because the Hungarian gas reservoirs are full on an unprecedented level, 6.4 billion cubic meters of gas were stored earlier this year, so in relation to this winter, which is obviously beginning this year, but will be extended to next year, no security of supply issues will arise in connection with the next winter. The next winter is totally fine. This is what made it possible, by the way, for the Russian President's recent visit to talk about the next winter. Undoubtedly, you are also right about the fact that the agreement between Russia and Ukraine on the near and medium-term future has not yet been reached. These negotiations are taking place. I assume that, as we approach the end of the year, by 31 December, these negotiations will speed up, and of course, although this is a reason outside of us, we are watching them, and in all respects we represent the interests of Hungary. The representation of Hungarian interest, as you mentioned, is, of course, resource and route diversification: at present we have access to almost exclusively Russian gas. 85 percent of the gas consumption in Hungary is Russian gas; 100 percent of the imported gas arriving in Hungary is Russian gas, and we are undoubtedly also interested in resource and route diversification. One important step, as you have mentioned, is the gas field in Romania. Here the Austrian OMW and the US ExxonMobil have not yet started extraction due to the domestic regulations in Romania. Let's hope that changes. The total standby at the Krki LNG terminal is still very far away, and the price is also an important factor to be competitive. So all routes and all sources [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We listen, and we choose the best, as appropriate. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-11-146	Thank you very much. Congressman Péter Ungár has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2019-11-11-147	What you have said is very important because it leads me to conclude that although in the short term the gas reservoir itself solves the question of gas in winter, this is not resolved in the medium term. About 45 memorandums of understanding were signed by the government, Minister Szijjártó from the Krki LNG terminal. There's a lot of paper, a wire isn't built yet. With regard to Romania, it can be said that the Romanian internal rules will thus change, but this does not calm Hungarian residential gas consumption in the medium term. The fact is that this is why what the opposition and LMP are talking about is important, so that we do not depend on Russia's energy point, because in the medium term, Hungary's energy supply depends on what the Russian and Ukrainian parties, who are otherwise at war, can agree on. I would like to remind Mr Secretary of State of the gas war of 2008-2009 and of the incredible uncertainty in this region at that time. Russian relations, if they are at such historical heights, should you be able to use them to avoid Hungary's uncertainty. Despite this, we see that Russian addiction [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It can only mean uncertainty. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-11-148	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2019-11-11-149	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I thought we were gonna have such a good conversation, but now we're not. If you can see that Russian gas is so important and we are currently in the absence of an alternative for reasons beyond us, then please do not criticize Hungarian-Russian relations [[Peter Ungár intervenes.]] I would also like to ask your opposition party and other opposition parties to do so, so that they can support Hungarian-Russian relations and balanced, pragmatic Hungarian-Russian relations, as this is also very important not only because of the gas supply, but also because of the gas supply. And the other thing is, I'm also asking you not to make us count. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] that, for example, Romanian or Croatian partners did not do their homework by the deadline. We've done it. We are ready to deliver from the Hungarian direction on the one hand, and we are also doing our homework in relation to transport to Hungary on the other hand, but we are obviously unable to do any work in the territory of another country, and I do not think that we are accountable for this. At the same time, you can be sure that, taking advantage of our existing options, as long as this is the government, gas supplies will be provided and that we will also retain the benefits of reducing the costs. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-11-150	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I consider that at present the rules of the illustration are being violated in this Chamber. I would like to point out to the Members that the Parliamentary Act 38/A. Article 4 of the Act provides that the application for an illustration must be submitted in advance not later than one hour before the meeting of the House Committee. I would ask the Members of Parliament to continue to ensure the smooth functioning of the Parliament, and I would like to inform you that I will inform the Speaker. Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:, Why did the visit of the Turkish President cause more traffic chaos than usual? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr Károly Kontra as Secretary of State for his reply in response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the Minister for his answer in person.
u2019-11-11-151	I'll take it.
u2019-11-11-152	Then you have the floor, Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio.
u2019-11-11-153	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Last Thursday, on the visit of the Turkish President, the people of Budapest showed great patience. They should be thanked. The police, who have often been ordered from the countryside, tried to carry out meaningless instructions, should also be thanked. Those who do not deserve to be thanked, however, are those who managed to organize the visit of the Turkish President in such a way that Budapest's transport was in chaos. [[14.20]] We managed to put Budapesters in an unworthy, vulnerable position. Travellers were forced to stand in the cold for a long time, the trams in the area didn't travel, but there were also people who couldn't walk, they couldn't leave the buildings, they were stuck or they couldn't go home, even though they lived across the road. For a long time, they were trapped in subways, people weren't allowed out of the subway station at Batthyány Square, they brought everyone back underground, so there was a huge tumult. In these troubled moments, there was no information about how long this closure would take, when the closing was more than two hours. They were desperate, outraged Budapesters on the street. Budapesters therefore have the right to know how all of this happened and who is responsible for this; especially since Budapest has dealt with similar types of visits so far. Dear Secretary of State, Why did Erdoğan's visit to Budapest cause much greater traffic chaos, and the next time they will be more careful? Thank you for your reply.
u2019-11-11-154	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2019-11-11-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to thank the people of Budapest for road closures and traffic restrictions, because all such significant diplomatic meetings cause inconvenience. We thank the people of Budapest for their patience and cooperation, and I believe that these measures have contributed to ensuring that this visit can be carried out safely by the Hungarian authorities. However, when you're asking for traffic closures, let's open the other side of the truth, let's talk about the other side of the truth. At the time of the Turkish President's stay, even more traffic inconveniences than before were caused by various multi-hour migration opposition protests and actions, including Márton Gulyás Soros activist, who did everything in his power to paralyze the city. The task of the law enforcement agencies is to protect public security, maintain public order, protect the security of the Hungarian people and diplomatic bodies. The tasks related to personal protection are the responsibility of the Counter-Terrorism Centre, which is carried out and coordinated by TEK in cooperation with other organisations. The TEK has paid particular attention to the fact that restrictive measures cause as little harm to the interests as possible, in view of the situations requiring immediate action, it has ensured medical care, rescue and access to and departure from the place of residence in cooperation with the National Rescue Service and national disaster protection. The security measures that necessarily involve the provision of international delegations would not have caused any more disruption in Budapest transport on their own, but thanks to you, on 7 November several demonstrations were held in Budapest, which also had a significant traffic impact. That's why I have to answer your question in detail, what you asked me. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-11-156	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the chance to rejoin the congressman.
u2019-11-11-157	Thank you for the floor. It's quite amazing, Mr. Secretary, that you're going to blame this situation for the protest. It wasn't because of the protestors that Andrássy Road was closed for two hours, it wasn't because of the protestors that they didn't let people out of the subway, I'm sure of that. The thing is, you've been trying to keep the Turkish President from meeting with any criticism, a sign, or a comment. The sensitivity of the Turkish President was far more important than that of the residents of Budapest, although the Turkish President had something to account for, because he started a completely pointless war in northern Iraq. And a word of advice: maybe we shouldn't call dictators, and then we'd have fewer protestors. Dear Secretary of State, At least one apology should be so kind to the people of Budapest in rejoinder. We don't want closure like this anymore. Take care of diplomatic matters so that the people of Budapest can travel. Thank you.
u2019-11-11-158	Thank you, Congressman. You have the opportunity to rejoin the Secretary of State.
u2019-11-11-159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We also thank you for the patience and cooperation of the Budapest people. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-11-160	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Attila Barcza, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: what tools can be used to ensure the legal functioning of local authorities? It's an address. Minister Balázs Orbán has appointed Minister of State to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding.
u2019-11-11-161	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2019-11-11-162	Yeah. Congressman Attila Barcza has the floor.
u2019-11-11-163	Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Celebrity-scrambling footage came to light during this year's municipal elections campaign, resulting in further deterioration of public life's purity. This deep fall is the 19th. It was due to one of the representatives and associates of the municipality of the district. It is a sad fact that, in the municipality of Kispest, the opposition has given Csaba Lackner, now well-known, a Commission position, who, knowing no moral boundaries and unscrupulously violating them, took public life's mandate solely for the purpose of financial gain. Lackner did not hide the fact that by concluding such tricky transactions and using stromones, he could obtain a minimum income of HUF 100 million per year. And as a municipal representative, who is unable to do so is, in his opinion, untalented, simply stupefying. It is worrying that the Social Minority District Leadership, which has allowed Lackner and his associates to play the godfather uncontrollably, has tried to deceive his own coalition associates into committee positions. In hindsight, of course, it is easy to explain that a wrong list has been put before the general assembly. I believe that in such cases there should not be a faulty list. Even the president of the Momentum, which is part of the Balliberal alliance, has stated in his interviews that Csaba Lackner is corrupt to the core and that we must fight against the Lockner kind. It must therefore be made clear to everyone that, without consequences, no one in Hungary can cause a serious deterioration in the purity of local public life, while at the same time disturbing the legal functioning of local authorities. In view of the above, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State what means can be used to ensure the legitimate functioning of local authorities. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-11-164	Thank you, Congressman Attila Barcza. I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Orbán.
u2019-11-11-165	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The legal base is that it is the metropolitan and county government offices through which the government ensures the legal supervision of local authorities; here the word is legal supervision. This means that, through various instruments, such as judicial attacking of law-absorbing municipal regulations, the institution of replacement acts, legal call and other institutions, the Government Office may examine the legality of the local government's organisation, operation and decision-making process. Of course, the government office will do this in any case, because the government's expectations of the city leaders do not matter whether they are right-wing, left-wing, pro-government or opposition settlement leaders, so that they can lead the settlements that the voters have entrusted to them within the framework of legality. However, I cannot take a stand on this issue from a legislative or governmental side. Perhaps it is my past as an analyst that I can call upon, because I have also read the excuses about the faulty list. But in the case of Csaba Lackner, his superiors couldn't find his phone number for days. Since then, mayor Gergely Christmas has been unable to talk to him about the scandal because he couldn't find his phone number. So that's what they were. Therefore, I suggest that these explanations should not be taken seriously by us, and that we should not accept them. I do not know that legal responsibility can be established here, it is the job of experts, but they clearly bear political responsibility, the parties that are part of the opposition factions in the Hungarian Parliament and Kipesten form majority groups. They are the ones who voted in favour of Csaba Lackner's position in committee, and therefore political accountability can be conducted against them. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-11-166	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Attila Barcza has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2019-11-11-167	Thank you for your reply, Secretary of State. I trust that the institutions listed by you and, above all, the Government Office will be able to exercise the supervisory right you mentioned and what you need to do to ensure that such abuses are clarified legally and everywhere. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.30]]
u2019-11-11-168	Thank you, Congressman. You also have the opportunity to respond in return to the Secretary of State.
u2019-11-11-169	I would only add one sentence, referring to cases that could be considered morally and morally unacceptable, and that occurred in the campaign of municipal elections. To date, responsibility in political terms has been taken on the part of one politician who has been involved in such matters, and this is the only politician on the government side. In cases of similar seriousness, they were equally morally condemned and linked to opposition politicians, until today, we have seen no responsibilities and no follow-up. We believe that this is unacceptable, and we would like to ask the opposition parties to use their influence and try to steer their own representatives and city leaders in the right direction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-11-170	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Balczó and Zoltán Magyar, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: It's an address. Mr Zoltán Balczó has the floor.
u2019-11-11-171	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, I have made it clear in advance with Mr State Secretary that I am forced to repeat my question in writing already in July, and we are forced to say when the aid for indigenous livestock farmers will be finally paid. The government has announced an invitation to tender for the conservation of genetic resources of protected indigenous and endangered agricultural species. The purpose of the aid is to preserve these low numbers of animals in breeding under conditions similar to those of the original keeping and feeding conditions of the variety. The financial source of the tender is the European Union's agricultural and rural development fund, and the participants in the project have undertaken to finance these costs on their own initiative in addition to the aid. Well, the reality is, and that's the problem, that in the long run, they're forced to finance it entirely on their own because of the brutal delay in payments. The payment of the 16 applications is now made, but the payments made in 17-18 are not even in question. Even though these farmers are interested in paying or assessing authorities, they only receive meaningless answers. Is the project available in Brussels, so is it incomprehensible that payments are not being made, or is it probably not the money, but the inability of the offices? It's an irresponsible government attitude, forcing many livestock owners to take down the stock or put into serious debt. Therefore, I ask you, Minister, what is the reason for the several years' delay in payments, when can they finally receive the rightful amount? And yes, how long will the government abuse the patience of these farmers, and can they expect, and to what extent, compensation? I look forward to Minister's substantive reply. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-11-172	Thank you, Congressman Zoltán Balczó. I give the floor to Minister István Nagy.
u2019-11-11-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My dear fellow Member, I must say to you that all the process, all the work that farmers do to save and breed indigenous animals, is a respectable and very important work. Support can only be paid when accurate data are provided. So, as we face an EU accounting and control obligation, we can only deliver if farmers have adequate data. I have to report to you that in 2017 and 18 farmers have submitted a total of 2,500 payment applications, of which more than 2,000 were checked in the Treasury and the county government offices. So about 80 percent of it was paid. There are difficulties in negotiating with the others. Because the reality is not that we don't want to, but that we can't pay. Because it's almost by hand that we have to check every single data with each owner, get certain data, and we can do it in return. Since indigenous animals are not kept under large-scale conditions, farmers do not have a built-up apparatus to conduct them, in those who have adequate data, the rules are complied with, all processes take place smoothly. Here, let's face it, it's the one or two horse keepers. There is a problem with the owners of one or two animals, who are entitled to the aid, and we will give it to them, but there is simply correspondence about when they provide authentic data, which allows us to make this payment. I hope that, since your question again highlights this problem, I believe that by the end of the year, we can make much progress on this issue as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-11-174	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Zoltán Magyar is entitled to the rejoinder.
u2019-11-11-175	Thank you... [[The sound system isn't working.]]
u2019-11-11-176	Excuse me, Congressman Zoltán Magyar's microphone...
u2019-11-11-177	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, the fact is that we have spoken to countless farmers who have carried out the checks, have complied with the reporting, but the payment is still waiting for you. You know, it's not that we're talking about this on 11 November, it's that we're talking about it in 2019; because, let's say, we were supposed to talk about the same thing in 2017, because these payments have been slipping since then. And the farmers concerned would like to know, let's say, when they took out a loan to feed their families, because you promised this support, they counted on it, they started developing their stocks in the first place. What can we tell them? This loan, for example, must be repaid. Or how we will compensate for the immeasurable loss that we say our national treasures have suffered on this occasion, because in these flocks, in these animals, we often talk about the fact that in one animal species, in one population, we can actually talk about the last individuals. So it would be our firm request that those affected should act flexibly and as soon as possible, because we are really talking about the livelihood of families. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-11-178	Thank you, Congressman. You have the opportunity to respond in return, Minister.
u2019-11-11-179	Thank you very much. I'd like to say back. And that I understand the problem, the problem is real, but I don't want to overdramatize it. The fact that a person takes credit for the non-payment or delay of aid for one or two or two animals is an unrealistic question. What I can promise you is that where the checks have been carried out, where the accurate data has been provided, I guarantee you that the farmers will still have their money this year. So I'm gonna do everything I can. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-11-180	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Hajnalka Juhász, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: what has the government done in recent years to increase forest frying, save the forest area, and what measures are planned in the near future? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász.
u2019-11-11-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Hardly a day goes by without talking about protecting the environment and fighting climate change. After all, we all want clean water, cleaner air and a more bearable climate. Forest management is an effective tool to reduce CO2 emissions and to address climate change challenges. Currently, forestry is the only carbon-absorption sector in Hungary. The forest is one of our most important natural resources, our national treasure, thanks to its benefits and many other services of protection and public welfare in the public interest. All the services of the forest are for the benefit of the public. According to its economic function, wood is a source of renewable energy and raw materials, which is one of the basic conditions of quality living, while forest benefits give us healthy products and food. The multifaceted protection function of the forest stems from the complex system of the forest and plays a very important role in preserving domestic biodiversity. [[14.40]] Dear Minister, After Trianon, 84 percent of the domestic forest areas were outside our current borders, so our forests shrunk to 1.1 million hectares. It was only 12 percent of the country's territory. By now, this proportion has almost doubled, today it is about 2 million acres [2 million ha] of forest. Domestic forests conclude a greenhouse gas equivalent to 4-5 million tonnes of CO2 annually, which currently offsets 7-8 percent of national emissions. The use of wood for energy causes an additional 5 million tonnes of fossil CO2 emissions. Dear Minister, On the basis of the above, it is clear that it is not enough to preserve existing forest areas, but also to create new forest areas. That is why I am asking Minister: what has the Government done in recent years to increase forest frying, to preserve the forest area, and what measures are you planning to take in the near future? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-11-182	I give the floor to Minister István Nagy.
u2019-11-11-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My dear fellow Member, Dear House, One good response to climate change is the increase in forest plantings. A very important part of our responsibility for the created world is to treat our environment by actually borrowing it from our grandchildren. What does the government ask you in order to make this creation a better place? We've launched the nationalisation program. It is divided into two parts, just as the ownership of forests is divided into two parts, as we are talking about a million hectares of state forest and the other one is owned by private forest farmers. Let's start with the state program first. In the public programme, we announced a nationalisation programme that aims to increase the forest area by about 550 hectares in the autumn and spring. We've involved local governments and NGOs in this case to plant trees on our playgrounds, squares, and groves so that trees can be professionally planted in the tree rows. We are expanding this system by planting and wooding trees in our brownfield areas, also in abandoned industrial areas. We would also like to plant trees in our areas for remediation and in need to reduce the damage that exists there, so in the Hungarian National Rural Network we have freed up a 500 million-million-dollar tender framework for which municipalities can apply for the implementation of this, and, of course, also private and civil society organisations. We're asking you to cooperate. The other side is part of the private forest, where the rural development programme has been modified so that it is worth planting forests. Therefore, if you install a hectar of acacia or summer, instead of 1.2 million you will get 3 million forints, for those who install beech or oak, instead of 3 million we can give 5 million forints. [[Gergely Harvesto indicates the end of time.]] We have pushed the aid intensity to 12 years in a uniform way so that everyone can cultivate it, and it is worth it to everyone to plant a forest. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-11-184	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr Gergely Arató, for waving or tipping your head that the time has passed, excuse me. Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2019-11-11-185	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for your reply, as KDNP has in many cases drawn attention to the importance of protecting the environment and how our thinking needs to be changed and developed to this end. It is an honour and pleasure to see how the Fidesz-KDNP government is committed to achieving sustainable development and how we contribute to reducing global CO2 emissions. Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-11-186	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Minister.
u2019-11-11-187	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Our aim is to increase Hungary's forest frying capacity from 21 to 27 percent. Our aim is to secure about 8 thousand tons of carbon dioxide with the current 550 hectares of forest planting. But these are all quantitative numbers, and it is very, very important to renew the quality of forests, so that the forest can really serve that purpose; it can serve the absorption of carbon dioxide, the production of oxygen, so that we can simply serve the living world. We call and wait for young people to come and plant these trees together, because their involvement is of common interest to everyone, because we are preparing the future, their future. And if they are involved in planting, then their responsibility will be strengthened, and all the energy, all the enthusiasm and enthusiasm that young people have, we need to make our environment something that can be right for all of us. Thank you very much for asking. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-11-188	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Mr. Zsolt Gréczy, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question, "Will you go to Perbe, who will tell you the truth?" What's going on in the public media? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Balázs Orbán State Secretary for his response in response to an urgent public mission. I ask the congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] It says yes. Mr Zsolt Gréczy has the floor.
u2019-11-11-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fidesz leaders of the public media that lied to the public media have yet to take another shameful step. Their former colleague, Krisztina Balogh, is threatened with a lawsuit about the internal operation of the MTVA, the continued management of Fidesz, the mandatory regulations of the forgery. Krisztina Balogh is one of those who got sick of party orders from the '50s. For example, he reported that on health issues it was said that the opposition relative he might have found could not speak. Krisztina Balogh also said that she had an eye and ears witness, as reporters are instructed, on a given political subject, who and what to ask, and in what form opposition politicians are provoked. He also said that the news director sometimes does this job himself, invites a reporter, gives instructions, sometimes through editors or e-mails. Krisztina Balogh also said that it is an in-house secret that the panels and topics to be used are being sent from the State Secretary for Government Communication to the editorial office. The question then is obviously, who and how many times a day send orders from you to the $90 billion MTVA, who and what they want to see on the show, and who and what they don't want to see. Is there a criterion in MTVA that Fidesz can employ loyalists? Is Krisztina Balogh really going to go into legal proceedings? Has Peter Polt been mobilized for the cause? Is the lawsuit a threat to MTVA employees that they can hit their ankles if they dare to open their mouths? I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2019-11-11-190	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Orbán.
u2019-11-11-191	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The thing is, I can't give you so much information about the specific case, but I don't see such a big problem. The fact is that there has been an employment relationship between an employee and an employer, this employment relationship has ceased, and, as you have read, sentences that are or may be a violation of good repute have been said from the former employee to the employer, and, if I see correctly, there is a dispute in civil law in this regard. So what I see is that there's nothing to see here, everything is going to be as it should be in a normal country. Moreover, as far as the issues of freedom of expression and freedom of the press are concerned in general, I must reject your statements there. On the one hand, you can say pro and versus positive and negative things about public television and public radio, but the condition of these media is still much better than in Germany, for example: when children's stories are given [[Gergely Harvesto laughs.]] They also have politics in them, and they criticize the Hungarian government for its anti-immigration. Fortunately, this can be seen as a very low level, which Hungary has not yet managed to reach, otherwise not even before 2010. And the other is that the freedom of the press is... [[Intercoms from the opposition, the president's ringing.]] I can see from today's press review that thank you very much, very well, even though you've been trying to make me impossible. But right now he's fine, the government has critical and government-supporting press, the most popular online platform, the most popular weekly newspaper, and the most popular television channel are all opposition. We're not happy about it, but we think it's okay. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: No comment! Intercoms from the opposition. The president's ringing the bell. A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[14.50]]
u2019-11-11-192	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Zsolt Gréczy has the opportunity to reply in return.
u2019-11-11-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary of State, of course, you are wrong; it costs us 90 billion forints for this lie factory. That's what the MTV reporter's leaving is all about, and what he's told us is a harsh reality. By the way, it is part of the harsh reality that there was a municipal election on 13 October, but neither the mayor nor the new elected mayors, no one is included in the Magyar Television programme, they cannot give an interview from Kossuth Radio to Magyar Television. That's pretty amazing. You didn't respond to the fact that the instructions for the news editing of Magyar Television and the attempt to discredit opposition politicians were actually taken directly from your ministries. I'd still like your answer on this one.
u2019-11-11-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give Mr. Balázs Orbán the opportunity to respond in return.
u2019-11-11-195	Thank you very much. Congressman, the thing is, we're all starting out on our own. That's the most fashion you've ever had. It's not our style. There's a principle of editorial responsibility everywhere. Speaking of which, what is outrageous about freedom of the press, and what is not outrageous, I think it is outrageous, if there is a television channel or other media platform that you don't like, so far it's okay to say what you think, so far it's okay to be protested before it, everything is okay. But the fact that they go into these media platforms, that they want to make it impossible for them to operate, that they do everything to undermine legality, and that they want to silence a channel that doesn't exactly match the taste of Congressman Zsolt Gréczy. But that's what democracy is all about. [[Zsolt Gréczy: This is public media!]] There are media surfaces that don't match your taste, and there are those that don't match my taste. [[Zsolt Gréczy: After the change of government, we go in and you don't go?]] But as long as we don't like to make things like this impossible, I'd like to ask you not to try. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-11-196	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The hour of immediate questioning is over. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. István Apáti, an independent Member, applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "The Warmness of Home." [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. You have the floor.
u2019-11-11-197	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to begin this speech after the agenda in an unusual way in response to Mr Arató here. I've already seen you get excited about your post-meeting address, but I have to disappoint you, Congressman, I don't want to talk about matters of sexuality or homosexuality here. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] I'm talking about the question of firewood subsidies. For I say that 80% of the Hungarian people live in the countryside, and I know that you, my dear fellow Balliberians, have no idea of the problems of the rural people, and they have no idea, for example, that the owners of wood fuelers, especially property suitable exclusively for wood heating, are not simply indemnified by the reduction of the rent, but that they are completely excluded from the reduction of the rent for millions of Hungarian people. I also submitted a proposal in 2012 to reduce the VAT on firewood from 27 to 5 per cent, but we see that all these proposals have so far been deaf. Therefore, the Hungarian Movement will initiate a total VAT exemption, given that, ladies and gentlemen, if we look at a ten-ten-ten Kádár cube built in the seventies and eighties, ten-ten-ten-ten-dollar, if they can only heat it with firewood, the firewood demand in an average winter is at least 100 grams, and given that these have hardly been renovated in the last 30-40 years it is very unconventional residential properties, then we can see that somewhere between 300 and 600 thousand forints, this firewood demand can reach up to 150-200 m2 in a half-year heating season and we are not really calculating the cost of heating from mid-October to mid-April. After all, if you look at the prices in the firewood ads, you can see that the price of a glazed acacia or oak is at least three thousand forints, but sometimes we find higher prices. I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow Balliberian and pro-government Members that a form of usury is very common in the countryside, which does not concern cash loans, but provides food and firewood for loan sharks loan loans during the heating season. This is practically the same as the traditional money loan, only this time the firewood is issued by the loan shark and with an amazing loan shark interest rate, practically the loan loan in the same year in firewood will still be repaid by the injured after two or three years. In our view, the total VAT exemption of the firewood would mean virtually a rounding error level loss of revenue for the national budget, but it would be a significant help for our most needy compatriots, since if we see that an average Szabolcs county employee brings home 138 thousand forints net according to 2017 data, and if we consider that the pension of an average Szabolcsi or Borsod county pensioner is under a hundred thousand forints, we can imagine that in addition to the cost of food and medicine, the extra expenditure of around 300 to 600 thousand forints per heating season puts these people in a virtually impossible situation. Therefore, it is essential to achieve the VAT exemption for firewood and to fix the VAT exemption. However, in the case of large family members, it would be worth considering additional advantages, whether in national projection or at local level, in the way contained in municipal regulations, obviously in the municipalities that are able and able to do so by reason of their budgetary situation. I would add that it is only and only those large family members who want to do the same for the better of their own destiny, and not the community resources and wealth that they settle on by pursuing some kind of parasite lifestyle. And we should not forget our elderly countrymen, because in particular in the disadvantaged regions of the country we encounter the phenomenon that elderly countrymen, whose children, grandchildren, are better off living within national borders but away from them, were, in worse cases, forced to work at the other end of the world because of very low Hungarian wages and general Hungarian public conditions, which is why these elderly people could be helped by using the locally available public workers to prepare the tree and transport it to a sheltered place. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] We are absolutely sure that if these proposals of the Hungarian Movement are accepted, our elderly countrymen and large families who want to do so will be able to look much more calmly before the next winter heating season. Thank you so much for listening.
u2019-11-11-198	Thank you very much, Congressman Abbot. Dear Parliament, Péter Ovádi, representative of Fidesz, applied for a post-meeting speech:. The taste of nature is the product of the countryside, again with great success with the title of Bakonyexpo. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-11-199	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, For the sixth time, the highly successful Bakony Expo, which is now one of the largest tourist attractions in the region in autumn, has been organized. In addition to the fact that visitors can learn about the gastronomic and folk cultural traditions typical of the landscape, the main aim of the event is to preserve and pass on the cultural heritage of the Bakony region, thus contributing to the introduction of Hungarian products, including Bakony products, to more people. The honor of domestic products has increased. All these years, it's like we've found ourselves again. Even though many try to force their will upon us, we are once again becoming nation-conscious. Many of our innovations have been taken over by other countries. Finally, not only German, French and English interests prevail in the European Union, but, if necessary, we stand firm for the interests of our nation. Everyday patriotism is not something of a spiritual nature, but a life instinct, a daily routine. If I go to the store, I buy Hungarian products. I think that it gives everyone pride when a Hungarian product holds its place in the international market and is surrounded by recognition, because this is our success, we can be proud of it. That's why such an exhibition is important. It shows visitors the world of the Bakony community, gives us the opportunity to learn what we can be proud of. The programmes address all age groups, present and bring closer the unique gastronomic and cultural traditions of the region, not only for people living in the area, but also for everyone. [[15.00]] This year the fish has been focused, but more than 140 exhibitors include honey, milk, cheese, syrup, jam, oil and meat sellers. It is a special pleasure for me that several settlements of my constituency represented themselves, so we could meet, for example, a producer in Gyulafirat, Hajmáskére, Tési, Novesvámos or even in Italy, and 90 percent of the exhibitors came from Veszprém County. Every year more and more people arrive at the event, this year more than 17,000 visitors were introduced to the gastronomic and folk cultural traditions of the Bakony landscapes. What is a special pleasure is that 3,500 children also participated in the Expo. Ladies and gentlemen, For the Government of Hungary, the countryside is of particular importance. There is no proof of this better than the highly successful Hungarian village programme or even the most diverse rural development grants. We would like our small settlements not only to be depopulated but also to be given a new modern robe and become attractive to young people. In Veszprém and its region, we can see a perfect example of the excellent cooperation between the countryside and the city, just to think that Europe's cultural capital will not only be Veszprém in 2023, but also the Bakony-Balaton region, because we are thinking in the region and in unity. There is a need for events and programs, such as the highly successful Bakony Expo, to provide new, alternative and useful recreation for both small and large. I would also like to thank the organizers and dreamers for their excellent work, as they are tirelessly working to surpass themselves year after year; they are successfully attracting an increasing number of people regardless of gender and age, thus contributing to the improvement of the reputation of the region and the region. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-11-200	Thank you, Congressman Péter Ovadi. After the agenda, Mr Gergely Tapolczai, from the Fidesz Group, spoke with the title "The Sign Language Act" for 10 years. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-11-201	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Law on Hungarian Sign Language and the Use of Hungarian Sign Language is ten years old. On 9 November 2009, the National Assembly unanimously adopted the so-called sign language law. During the general debate, on 29 September 2009 Ádám Kósa spoke first in Hungarian sign language among the walls of the Hungarian Parliament. During the final vote, on 9 November 2009, I myself sat up in the gallery, along with some of my fellow fates, and together we rejoiced at this huge success, this huge historic moment. What's the sign language law about? Hungary is the first in the world to ratify the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which includes sign language. It includes ensuring the use of sign language for people with disabilities in all areas of life, including equal access for deaf people and hearers. The Sign Language Act ensures this, ensuring unprecedented progress for fellow fatefuls. Over the past ten years, my friends, deaf people, hearers, deaf blinds and sign language users have made a huge difference in their lives; they have brought about an improvement in their quality of life that would have been unimaginable earlier. The Sign Language Act also amended the media law by ensuring subtitles and the number of subtitles translated each year. And we are now on two major commercial TVs and public television that these shows are accessible to my friends and myself at 10-12 hours a day or full-time. All parties involved, all hearing impaired persons are entitled to access basic interpretation services for 120 hours a year, which they receive from sign language translation services. The law provides them with an extra 120 hours in secondary and higher education. Thinking that I myself graduated from law school without the help of a sign language translator, this is a huge change for the younger hearing impaired, younger generations. The law introduced a national register of so-called sign language interpreters. There are 167 registered interpreters now, ten years ago there was a fraction of this number. Continuous training and further training are provided for interpreters. Continuous operation is ensured for sign language translation services at national level. A special sign language interpreter service is also provided for deaf blinds. With the support of the European Union and the Government, we have introduced the video-based interpreter service Kontakt, which is also a huge help for both our peers and the interpretation services, as it is possible to make a personal request via the Internet via video-based interpreter service. It was not a direct effect, but it was also a huge achievement to have access to cultural life. This year and next year, the law provides ten times more support for theatre accessibility for sign language users, blind people and poor-sighted people. A hundred million forints of funding is available for this purpose. Not least, the Sign Language Act also provides the accessibility necessary for my work, not only at national level, but also at municipal level, allowing communication accessibility, possibly also for future hearing impaired people. On 9 November 2017, Parliament unanimously adopted the parliamentary decision on the day of Hungarian sign language. On the occasion of the ten-year anniversary, you can see a small special exhibition in the Office Building, which is about sign language, please take a look at it. On the basis of the experience of the last ten years, I would like to propose a later amendment. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-11-11-202	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Tapolczai. Zoltán Magyar, from the Jobbik Group, applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "The Challenges of the Hungarian Agriculture." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-11-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Intensive agriculture kills nature, in recent hours news about a research signed by 2,500 researchers and specifically about European agriculture and its effects; and they demand a complete reform of the common agricultural policy, which is also relevant, since in these months it is decided what funds agriculture and rural development will be able to manage in one Member State in the next seven-year EU budget cycle. I thought it was important to speak on this issue because I would like to avoid it, and I think that from the point of view of Hungarian farmers, just as in terms of domestic nature conservation, it would be very wrong and unfair and very far-reaching negative consequences for either position to be given a majority of the two extremes in the European Union. What am I thinking here? The fact that if we look at mammalian species here in Europe, birds, reptiles, amphibians or insect biomasses, we can report a huge setback. Specific data are available from the last 27 years in a comprehensive study: there is a fall of around 76 per cent in insect biomass, a collapse, and 55 per cent in bird species, and in particular in animals. And if we look specifically at which of these species are mainly linked to agricultural areas, we get even more brutal data. However, I say that the position that we have heard from, say, our pro-government fellow Members at the Agriculture Committee is not acceptable; let us say, there is also an argument that these figures are unfair and cannot be written at the expense of agriculture, because let us think that cattle also eat green grass, so how environmentally friendly this is. [[15.10]] So it is so simple to put it mildly that approaches are not correct, as well as what some green politicians conclude from these research is that agriculture is the most environmentally harmful activity possible. That is why I said that we should try to keep our distance from both positions and to develop, soberly, the Hungarian position that will be able to ensure for the next seven years that family farming can remain in Hungary as a way of life, but we can also focus on biodiversity. It is a fact that large homogeneous boards can be described as virtually a desert without shelter and food for most living things, but it is also true that a well maintained agricultural culture is the last refuge of protected, highly protected organisms for whom we need to worry and for whom we need to make the biggest cry for help, even here, within the walls of the House. So I'm saying that the misguided policy on which the government has built in this area since 2010, the so-called South American model, when natural resources are placed in the hands of a narrow elite, has unfortunately shifted the concentration of property to that direction, the concentration of payment of subsidies, which is ominous, i.e. that these vast, homogeneous table farming that has been classified as deserts have begun to gain as much space as possible and spread in our country against the small mosaic agriculture that supports environmentally-friendly and family farmers, which ensures their survival and the prosperity of villages, so they have gained ground and are all the more and more conquering. And so, regardless of the actual policy and the Mészáros Lawrences and all our criticisms, which have been rightly said, that is why I am asking the Government to reconsider that rural development policy and to reconsider the agricultural policy that has been going on so far. The only way we will be able to win this fight for the benefit of Hungarian farmers and for the sake of Hungarian nature conservation and the Hungarian environment, which is for millions of euros, is to be able to win it if we can represent this policy faithfully if we can assure the taxpayers that their paid-up resources, which is a brutal amount of EUR 60 billion per year, are spent for this purpose from taxpayers' forints as the European Union, if this is in a good place, if we can assure them of this. So let's live on biodiversity [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And let the Hungarian farmers live! You can find the golden middle ground if you want. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-11-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. After the agenda, Mr Sándor Szabó, from the MSZP Group, applied for a post- Agenda address:. After all the promises and 20 years, it is time that the government did indeed work. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-11-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In fact, I gave this title to my post- Agenda comment because it has been almost 20 years since the first Orbán government was established that Viktor Orbán has promised that a project will be implemented in Szeged, and this is the construction of the third Tisza Bridge in Szeged. I would like to present a short chronological order here in my post- Agenda comment, and I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to a parliamentary proposal for a resolution, and I would like to ask for your support, and I am pleased that Mr Secretary of State is also here, because I would like to contact Prime Minister in writing personally with this request. So, as I said, before 2001, between 1998 and 2002, during the first Orbán government, the Prime Minister promised that the third Tisza bridge would be built, which would not only have been a significant economic potential for Szeged, but also for the region, and since then, for 20 years, I must say that there is almost no election campaign, whether it is a parliamentary election campaign or a municipal campaign, where otherwise the question of the construction of the bridge would not be discussed. From 2002-2010 there was a change of mayor, Mayor László Botka became mayor of Szeged, and we continued to give priority to the construction of the Tisza Bridge, but we considered with greater priority the construction of the M5 motorway to Szeged, then to the Serbian border, and then to the construction of the M43 motorway with a new Tisza bridge, which, of course, led the transit traffic and the truck traffic through the city of Szeged, obviously, both the M5 motorway and the M43 highway were built with enormous economic benefits and benefits for the region, and then we again formulated as a demand that it was time, in accordance with the previous promise, that the new third bridge in Tisza be built. In September 2010, when parliamentary elections were held in 2010 and the third bridge in Tisza was re-established in the municipal campaign, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán also promised in the municipal campaign, but I have to say that nothing of this happened until 2015, although the Prime Minister made it clear then that the third bridge in Tisza will be built in the period 2010-14. In 2015, the project itself went through a huge expansion, as during the period of János Lázár's ministry and Nándor Csepreghy's State Secretary for Development, the project was expanded to such an extent that the development was seen as not simply a road bridge on the Tisza in Szeged, but a bridge with mixed traffic, which would include the railway line Szeged-Makó and the construction of a P+R parking lot. Obviously, the costs have increased significantly, and this means a HUF 35 billion investment today, which is probably and of course not possible from Szeged's own power, and it requires government support, which the Prime Minister also promised at the time, since in January 2016 he commissioned Mihály Varga, Minister for National Development, Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, to prepare and implement the implementation of the Tisza Bridge by 2020. The next date was January 30, 2017 when an agreement was concluded between the city of Szeged and the government within the framework of the programme "Modern Cities" for the implementation of the already mentioned extended project. Here, the Prime Minister clearly contained several programmes... and the agreement itself contained several programmes, the cornerstone of which was, of course, the construction of the Tisza bridge. A government decision was also taken in March 2017 to implement the development with the involvement of the resources available under the Integrated Transport Development Operational Programme, as well as domestic resources. NIF Zrt. has been entrusted as a claimant, the government has also provided HUF 15.5 billion, it has designated 31 March 2019 for the preparation of the project and 31 August 2022 for its implementation. Unfortunately, nothing has happened since then, so I would like to make a parliamentary decision to my fellow Members to help implement the project, and I would like to call on the Prime Minister and the Members concerned in writing to support our project. Thank you for listening.
u2019-11-11-206	Thank you, Congressman. After the agenda, MEP László Hajdu, DK, came forward: a decision on the creation of Nagy-Budapest was taken seventy years ago. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-11-207	Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, After the Second World War, Budapest and several major cities in Europe thought that war wounds were to be eliminated and recovered from the cheapest and best solution by integrating the then agglomeration into a large city, thus creating the so-called Nagy-Budapest. Just seventy years, among the walls of this House, our ancestors created the law under which XXV. Act adopted in 1949 and created in Great Budapest, administratively of course. This Nagy-Budapest included seven cities with county rights. I would like to mention these cities with county rights at the time, which were assembled from the county of Pest-Pilis-Solt-Kiskun: Budafok, Csepel, Kispest, Pestszenterzsébet, Pestlőrinc, Rákospalota this is my constituency, Újpest part. [[15.20]] And 16 other major villages were attached to Budapest: Albertfalva, Békásmegyer, Budatétény, Cinkotá, Mátyásföld, Nagytététény, Pesthidegkut, Pestszentimré, Pestújhely, which is also my constituency, Rákoscsaba, Rákoshegy, Rákoskeresztúrt, Rákosliget, Rákosszentmihály, Sashalm and Soroksár. So the so-called Nagy-Budapest was created, which until then consisted of 14 districts, and then was divided into 22 administrative units by Rákospalota and Pestújhely in essence the XV. district name or administrative classification. By being part of Budapest, these rural settlements reached the size of a metropolitan area, with 1.6 million inhabitants, but with an incredibly low infrastructure in terms of infrastructure. Dusty roads were 80 percent in the settlements even after their connection, and there was no drinking water supply, no sewerage, no electricity supply for some villages, no more than one main street, and they had small electricity plants separately. So you can say that the city attached a problem to you when it was established in 1873 from the unification of the original Budapest Pest, Buda and Óbuda, and Margaret Island joined this. They thought joining together would be enough to create a big city. However, a major problem was also created, although the city has made great progress in the past period, but the outer districts, which are now known as the outer district, have remained external district in their nature, partly with a slightly behind infrastructure, although today Budapest can say that a large part of its streets are covered with solid road surfaces, under which the basic utilities are built. Still, I think it took seventy years to get a city to hit the level that a city of this European size has to reach. Rákospalota and Pestújhely in which I am involved, my constituency was also in the same situation. You could say that, after the change of regime, basic utilities have been built over the last thirty years. Their traditions and culture have also been maintained by these settlements. The old type of culture can be found in almost all of them. They belong to Budapest, but many people still use the old name of the settlement. A summer example: I met people on Lake Balaton who were from the district, and they asked me when I was going back to Rákospalota. They don't say when you're going back to Budapest, they say when you're going back to Crab Palace. They still feel the name of the small settlement attached to Budapest, which is their own. That's what I wanted to remember. That's why I asked for the floor. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-11-208	Thank you very much, Congressman Hajdu. Tibor Nunkovics, from the Jobbik Group, applied for a post-meeting speech: That's how he keeps his word on the government sewage sludge case. ! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-11-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, In the summer there was a great deal of dust about sewage sludge, including the transportation and recycling of foreign sewage sludge to Hungary. Many expressed their dissatisfaction, including in Székesfehérvár. As a result, Gergely Gulyás announced towards the end of the summer that there will be a sewage sludge stop in Hungary, and that no more of this material will be brought here from abroad. By the way, in recent years, about 200,000 tonnes have been transferred to Hungary from Italy, Slovenia and Croatia, which have been planted in old mines. According to some opinions, this material is suitable for soil regeneration through different processes. This is contrary to Canadian experience, for example, because this procedure was banned because it was scientifically not supported in any way that this material was suitable for carrying out soil regeneration, not to give it to God, even to agricultural production. Therefore, this procedure is not in fact justified and has not yet been approved in other EU countries, yet we see that this material has been carried to Hungary continuously for a thousand tonnes. The summer came, the transport stopped in Székesfehérvár on 1 September, the trucks did not go there anymore, but we saw, for example, that in Colontar, where there was a disaster not so long ago, unfortunately, where several people were victims of this red sludge disaster, so this material was still transported to the Colontar. See a miracle, in the days of the reappearance of the Croat trucks in Székesfehérvár, it is likely that they have again begun to transport the fecalia from Croatia to Hungary, so that we still know nothing about the impact of this material on the soil. We have not seen impact studies in recent years, so to speak, about the development of the project. So Gergely Gulyás and Zsolt Semjén said to a speech by my fellow Member Andrea Varga-Damm in the spring session that they would actually review this procedure, and they would see that there were irregularities in it. Looks like they didn't find any irregularities because they're still wearing shit. Hungary. Thank you for the floor. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-11-11-210	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Dániel Z. Kárpát, from the Jobbik Group, has applied for a post- Agenda address. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-11-211	Mr President, Dear House, A sick woman with cancer was evicted in Józsefváros, and civil activists protecting her were dragged away, dragged away from the door of the apartment. I must stress that a small part of the debt of the woman in her 40s comes from the debt of capital, and this family lost its home for only HUF 1.2 million. The majority of this debt was so-called compound interest, and the total separation of the family, so that the taking of the 12-year-old sick boy could only be prevented by giving his own child to a child's home the day before the executioner arrived, so the guardianship did not take him away from him. If she can, she'll move to a homeless shelter. And dozens of similar terrifying stories can be found, both on the Internet and on social media, as well as live footage that are shaking and touching, which accompany the Calvaries of these families from the first moment to the last. We also need to see that a very large proportion of families in Hungary are in a position to terminate the local government's social housing contract, where appropriate. As of this termination, they shall pay market-based rent and housing charges to the persons concerned. Of course, I myself am in favour of everyone paying the fee, the item that they owe. Obviously, a decent social network helps to settle the life of a family in such a situation, but those who are faced with a market-based debt when there is a mass of debt from a social rent are almost certain that they will lose their housing opportunities, and in the year of the so-called family or a year afterwards, it is certain that such a flow chart would not be permitted in Hungary. We also encountered a case where a lady working as a cleaning lady in a nearby school would have been supported by a court of law with a decision that her eviction was not possible, but by the time the court decided, we had already been evicted two days later. We were two days past the event that practically destroyed the life of the very difficult lady. He also made a mistake in this system, of course, if it could be called a mistake, not directly from the bank, but from a brokerage company, well-known for advertising and advertising, which, with various tricks and administrative obstacles, did not even make the total amount taken available to him, but already the various debt managers sold him as a fish scotch, tweaking and tossing this debt among themselves artificially expanded their debt. [[15.30]] The thing is, the lady's health was broken, and unfortunately, she ended up in the neural ward. We also need to see that these are no longer individual cases. These are not the so-called wildebeests out of the system, which sometimes occur, but are not the characteristics of the system; unfortunately, they are regularly and embedded in the system. We also need to see that it is typical that, before the era of the eviction moratorium, where we are now, these families could be granted an extension, who was granted a year's grace period, as I said, but it is still happening that the overzealous enforcer, presumably committing multiple violations, would do what he could not otherwise do, and later, when a court decision is taken, no one will remember to restore the original state and restore the possibility of living for these families. We also see that when it comes to another auction, for example, for a property refurbished in a panel program, the starting bid was still 12 million forints in the case of a panel apartment above 20 million forints, although according to the new rules of the auction, the estimated value should be started at least 80-90 per cent, and if it fails, a step reduction could be discussed. So I say to Mr Secretary of State that I say to the members of the government inside that the rules you have made are these criminals because they are supposed to be net criminals that are simply not taken into account. Despite a court order, evictions are initiated so that they know very well that the court order is in the mailroom or during service. It can also be seen that during the auctions, Hungarian people's homes are still carried away at a fraction of the price. Which is why I say that we, the Jobbik faction, do not give our names under any circumstances for this institutionalized looting. There is a need for a new accounting law, the forinting of so-called loans at the rate of admission, but as long as they are suspended in Parliament, a moratorium on eviction not until spring, but until then. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] until the whole problem is resolved and resolved. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-11-212	Thank you, Congressman. Tamás Csányi, from the Jobbik Group, also applied for a post-the-meeting speech with the title "A month after the municipal elections." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-11-213	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the floor. Let me be the first to congratulate Lóránt Budai as President of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County of the Movement for Jobbik Hungary, who won a bright victory in Jászberény yesterday and won the mayor's title. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] For your five-year mandate, I wish you perseverance, good health and wise decisions in the interest of the settlement. As you know, the municipal elections in Hungary took place almost a month ago, so I thought I would sum up my experience within the walls of this House in a few minutes. If I may, I would focus primarily on my own constituency, the 4th constituency of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County, where there are 23 settlements with diverse structures, cities, villages and villages, as the mosaic system required at the time. In examining the election results, it can be concluded that there are more and more settlements in our constituency where the voters did not support the Fidesz candidate, they sent a clear message to the local governor of NER, István Happy, that they cannot identify themselves with his working methods and tools anymore. Allow me, as a better Member of Parliament, to express my joy at this and encourage the local leaders and the people who live there to do the right thing, to take the first step towards the elimination of the latest regime of feudal times. Congratulations, I wish you all good health. I know more people are watching and waiting for confirmation. After October 13, the bodies of representatives were formed, the municipalities stood up. There have been cases where the work of the newly elected mayor has been hindered rather than helped in the initial days, and even there are local governments where the elected head of the settlement is still unable to start his work, because he does not have contracts or inventory to mention only two things, without which it is very difficult to do responsible work. We remember that after the elections Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and the other Members of the Fidesz who spoke here in the House congratulated all the winners, quite rightly. However, the serious reality is that the NER residents have indeed made significant differences between settlements and settlements. Where the circumstances were favourable to them, the funds were concentrated, for example, my home town, Mezőtúr in my constituency, where there were so many TOP applications in the last cycle that it was already necessary to take on 350 million HUF credit to start their implementation. Couldn't it have been more reasonable to allocate resources to the municipalities? We could ask the question naively. However, the answer is very clear: Fidesz governors hold the harsh double standard of ideological origin before them as if they were handing out EU funds from their own pockets. Let us not talk about the fact that this process is seasoned with a corruption mechanism that has already pissed off the authorities, they cannot just walk away from it. According to Péter Polt's Attorney General, there is a prosecutor's investigation into the constituency, and budget fraud in criminal networks is one of the charges, if we can believe the news in the constituency. We hope to find out as soon as possible who, besides István Happy, is still involved in this matter. It is therefore very important that all re-elected city leaders of the constituency declare their involvement in this matter at the beginning of the new cycle. In my opinion, this would be essential to start working together for settlements. That's why I'm asking from the House of Parliament that the mayors concerned, if they have nothing to hide, stand in public and clear their names. Otherwise, unfortunately, their involvement becomes apparent. At the same time, one month after the elections, I ask the municipal notaries or officials and staff to allow work to be started in settlements where this has not been fully done. As our leader Peter James said in his speech before the agenda, accept the will of the electorate and learn to lose. If you keep this up, you'll have plenty more. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-11-214	Thank you very much, Congressman Tamás Csányi. After the agenda, Mr Gergely Farkas, Member of the Jobbik Group has applied for a post- Agenda speech:.. Finally, we were the only ones who were right! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-11-215	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Last Wednesday, the Government adopted the decision to repeal the regulation under which access to higher education would have been subject to a secondary language examination from 2020. Jobbik has been fighting for the repeal of this regulation for a long time, which is why I considered it important to remember this positive decision in my speech, but also because I would also like to draw attention to the current problems of language learning. It cannot be an end in itself to abolish this regulation, but at the same time it is very necessary for the government to take the necessary steps for a long time to really reform Hungarian higher education. But I was also motivated in my speech by the fact that last Wednesday's decision in some people, in Hungarian people, gave birth to incomprehensibility. My experience was that some people did not understand why it was good for an incentive to be abolished that could have motivated students to learn a language more actively. I would also like to reply to that in this speech. I must start with the basic condition, with a basic sentence, that Jobbik has always been committed to improving the importance of language learning and language learning. If you look back at Jobbik's initiatives, you can experience a lot of them going back years, and you can see a lot of them, so we are clearly committed to that. At the same time, and this is another basic phrase, the introduction of all new conditions must be preceded by a set of requirements, a set of requirements. More precisely, if the government does want to impose new and new conditions for students in terms of language education, such as the language exam for access to higher education, then conditions must also be laid down, for example, in terms of language education in the public education system. [[15.40]] But that didn't happen. If you look at the government's activities in this area in recent years, you can see practically one positive initiative: making the first language exam free. In parentheses, I daresay that Jobbik's proposal has been taken over by the government, and that's what it's done. This was important, but far from enough. It is far from sufficient, because a number of statistics have been produced that show that the number of hours where students learn language in Hungary is sufficient. This is exactly 924 hours that students spend in the public education system teaching languages. This is a high number in comparison with the European Union. However, in many cases young people cannot get to the secondary language exam. And it's not necessarily their fault. Everyone has a sense of something else. Someone is good in mathematics, someone is good in chemistry, someone has a good sense of language, and what would have been the biggest problem with the introduction of this regulation was that young people who do not have a good sense of language, but who are good at other things. For example, in the case of technical subjects, art subjects or any other subject, they have good results, good abilities, but they are weaker in the field of language education, language skills, and would have blocked the possibility of obtaining a degree from thousands of young people. And these thousands of young people aren't exaggerating, they could say tens of thousands. A survey was carried out that only 45 percent of admission candidates had language examinations a year or two ago, only 55 percent of admissions. That was two years ago, since then this ratio has improved a bit. The young Hungarians have obviously developed, but even so, they would have taken away the possibility of leaving this regulation in force from tens of thousands of young people. This is therefore a problem on an individual level, but it would also have caused problems at social level to keep this regulation in force, that in careers where we are still lacking in technical or teaching careers, even fewer students would have been able to gain admission, there would have been even greater shortages; or even some universities, colleges, would have been affected at a level that would endanger the survival of the institution itself. So this is a very positive step that the government has finally implemented this turn of events in a positive sense. At the same time, with a few words on language learning: it would be very important for the government to finally remedy the problems we see here, we need speech-centred language education, we need small group language learning, and we do need to create the recognition of the teaching career, so that the shortage that we now see as regards foreign language teachers can be reduced. That's what I encourage the government to do. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that if this positive decision is taken, then it will take the other positive decisions in terms of language learning. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A voice from Jobbik's ranks: That's right! Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-11-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Ádám Steinmetz, from the Jobbik Group, also applied for an after-the-meeting speech:. The alleged sports-loving Fidesz government spends money on gymnasiums, schools and sports centers in the budget for more than HUF 700 million in construction investments. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-11-217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The Fidesz government, as executive authority in Hungary, is subject to many criticisms from week to week in this House. But I think that we can agree that the area of sport is an area that is closely monitored and with priority grants. For this reason, it was very strange and shocking to me that the government decision on Friday from the Hungarian Gazette I learned that the sports-loving Fidesz government should now pay attention to the amounts devoted to gymnasiums, educational schools, the development of educational institutions and the development of sports complexes. It transfers 7254 million forints to high-level civil engineering investments. Ladies and gentlemen, Last summer, when we created this year's budget, we had a number of debates, but I think we agreed that these objectives should be supported. At most, some opposition representatives wanted to spend even more money for these purposes. However, what we see now is that, rather than having more money, the government has also taken me away from the existing appropriations, and we simply do not understand why this is necessary. Why is it that educational institutions previously nationalised by the sport-loving Fidesz government, which were government-owned, do not provide enough money for their development, or that these improvements are not implemented properly? To mention just one example: for example, in Marcali at the Berzsenyi Dániel High School, there has been a waiting time for years to replace the windows, and this has not happened to this day. I go further: the construction of gymnasiums would also be extremely important, as they provide the infrastructure background of everyday physical education that we need to support, and in Somogy, but I think it also happens in other parts of the country, typically in rural schools, that children are forced to keep their physical education class in corridors, stairwells or musty cellars, because it is not possible to renovate gymnasiums and gym rooms. Going on: my heart, and I hope for you, is that all Hungarian children should learn to swim, preferably in all four types of swimming, and especially in the countryside, it is a problem that they teach them in an inadequate number of hours. You don't have a chance. That's why we need these schools. Based on what you've said, and on the basis of the government's resolution, there are certain questions that I'm going to ask you. How is it possible for the sport-loving Fidesz government to have more important government investments in construction than the renovation of educational institutions, gymnasiums, educational schools, development of sports complexes? How can it be that now that we are approaching the end of the year we are talking about the middle of November, the money for this has not yet been spent or committed? How can they still move these money freely? Or is it simply these planned amounts that they didn't want to spend, but have they been treated as a redistributable budgetary buffer ever since the beginning? So I'm really glad you listened to my question. I very much hope that you have stayed in this Chamber to answer this now. I hope you will. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán nodds.]] If not, I will ask these questions at a later date. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Thank you.]] Because it's very important that we get answers to them. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-11-218	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, That was the final statement after the agenda. Thank you for your work. I would like to inform you that the next autumn session is expected to take place on 18 November 2019. Thank you for your work. I wish you a restful evening. The meeting's closed.
