u2019-03-19-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 9th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be assisted by Attila Gelencsér and notaries György Szilágyi. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, In 1994, on the 50th anniversary of the Nazi occupation of Hungary, a parliamentary decision was taken with the aim of remembering and reminding the events and victims of the tragic historical era. On 19 March 1944, the events of the Second World War, which had already been taking place for the fifth year, occupied Hungary by the German army. They took up strategically important locations, soldiers from a foreign country marched on the streets of Budapest and rumbled their fighting vehicles. The anti-war and anti-German politicians, the persecution of intellectuals, the withdrawal of existing human and civil rights from Hungarian society, and the regulations on Jewishism continued to be strict. Millions were forced to flee, to hide, and the population faced the immediate danger of life every day. On this day Hungary also lost its remaining independence, and the Sagittarius takeover that took place six months later sealed the country's fate for good. On 19 March 1944, Hungary lost its state self-determination, which could not be restored until nearly fifty years later. This sad historical era is also recorded in the preamble and introductory part of Hungary's Fundamental Law. Ladies and gentlemen, On this day, we will pay tribute to our former countrymen who have lost their lives in battlefields, deportations, acts of war affecting the civilian population, or everyday terrors. We also remember those who survived the war years, but their bodily and mental wounds could never heal, the processing of horrors was only enhanced by silence and the difficulties of the coming decades. The tragic fate of the victims should be an eternal reminder for future generations! Dear Parliament, László Varju, representative of the Democratic Coalition, has applied for a pre-meeting speech: "Europe, stay! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-03-19-1	Thank you very much. Dear House, Surprisingly, there is one question on which the Democratic Coalition agrees with Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and Fidesz, which is that the next European Parliament election will be decisive. However, we have far from agreed on why this is happening. You believe that the election will be a struggle between pro-immigration and anti-immigration political forces. However, that is not true. If you want to defeat the pro-immigration forces, you have chosen an easy opponent, because there are no such forces at European level. It is not possible, under the European Treaty, to regulate immigration is only a Member State's competence. If the bodies of the European Union had a say in which government grants immigration permits to whom and why, they would certainly have a word or two to say that for good money, you have issued 20 000 immigration and residence permits to people with outstanding numbers of suspected criminals with terrorism, money laundering and trafficking. But Brussels has no say in this. There is no Soros plan to flood Europe with Muslim masses, this is only a conspiracy theory in Moscow, and first the conspiracy theory used by the fallen Macedonian Prime Minister Nikola Gruevski, who enjoys your hospitality. Let's add quickly that the ad hoc committee on population policy, set up by the first Orbán government and chaired by Viktor Orbán, discussed a report in 1999 that, by 2050, it considered 40 to 47 thousand immigrants a year necessary for Hungary's population to reach ten million in the middle of the century. So it was an Orbán plan, and there is, until there was and was no Soros plan, only a Russian idea developed by foreign consultants; it became a flood of lies advertised with a lot of money. In fact, the fight is going on between pro-European and anti-European forces, which, on the basis of a nation state, do not spare their own country, and share it with the European Alliance, not to strengthen it, but to destroy it. Fidesz is one of these non-contractual forces and would like to take the lead of Europe's disruptors in order to obtain a screen for crimes against its own people. This week we commemorated the civil revolution of 1848 in Újpesten. There was honesty at the statue of Görgey. What has been going on in Hungary since 2010, however, is the counter-revolution of Pharisees, Viktor Orbán, against the ideas of 48, with which he has abolished the European civil democratic acquis in Hungary, and now he wants to destroy the European institutions in his recent path. You don't need a European Public Prosecutor's Office, and we do. That is why we have been saying for some time: Orbán or Europe. Now we have a choice. We invite everyone together to choose Europe. That's why we put out the password: Europe, we stay! We remain in the European Union, a community of European civil democracies, where there is freedom of the press, an independent court, independent of those in power, where the attorney general pursues crime rather than conceals it. And if you don't like it, the road is open to you in Russia, Turkey, Azerbaijan, where you're welcome. We do not want infertile debates about whether there should be a Europe of nations or a Europe of nations, because it is long clear that the Europe of nations is a concept inspired by Moscow, the reduction of all that Europe has created over the past six years, because a united Europe is uncomfortable with neighbouring Russia. We fully agree with the French President Macron's call, as we have been saying for a long time: deepening European integration, closer cooperation between Member States, a joint effort to solve common problems. [[9.10]] We want united European states, a Federation of European civil democracies, where we have more tools to help people than we do today, to reduce social inequalities, to protect the democratic acquis, such as building up the village and not minimizing it, as you on the right have done in the last thirty years. Hungary remains in Europe [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] because you like it or don't like it, we're the majority. Europe, we're staying! [[Zsolt Gréczy applauds. Dr. Bence Rétvári: The majority in applause!]]
u2019-03-19-2	Thank you very much, Congressman Varju. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, will respond to what has been said.
u2019-03-19-3	Thank you, Mr. President. We are the majority of the claims, the election results are somewhat contradictory. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Ask the U.S. State Department.]] As regards his statement that we will remain in the European Union: of course we will stay in the European Union. I would like to draw your attention now to the fact that there is only one party in the Hungarian Parliament, which previously raised a withdrawal from the Union, and this Jobbik is not in a governance situation, even in their basic programme, that the future of Hungary cannot be imagined within the framework of the EU, and at other times the party president said that we would swear, swear, that we would no longer be members. I'm bringing this up now because you and this party paraded on stage on the 15th of March a few days ago, throwing away all your previous views, by the way. If you were a little concerned about EU membership, you would not cooperate with Jobbik, I would even avoid the shadow of such a company. Let me tell you that one of the highest in Hungary, one of the European countries, is the support for EU membership. There was also a referendum on this issue. [[Zsolt Gréczy: This is the majority! We've been working on it. Laszlo Varju: That's us!]] and this referendum obliges all political actors in Hungary. However, commitment to membership must not mean that we cannot raise our voice when we see bad and harmful processes, and that there is an increasing gap between the decisions of the elite in Brussels and the will of the people of Europe, a bad process. Let me give you the most important example here: according to the Commission survey, 50 percent of Europeans believe that migration will be the most important problem in the upcoming election. So it's not just us, it's the Eurobarometer. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The majority!]] This is also the case, according to the Commission's assessment. Far ahead of economic issues. And to this, as if nothing had happened, the Brussels institutions continue to push for immigration-enhancing plans. You said there were no such plans. Then let's go into the details for a minute. The resettlement quota has not been removed from the agenda. Look at the statements made by the Commissioner on migration, how he continues to push it: it has been written. Then the issue of the migrant visa: the European Parliament voted in favour and called on the European Commission to prepare the detailed programme as soon as possible. And in vain, the European Commission claims that it will not be prepared in the coming weeks; previously, the Commissioner on Migration clearly said that they would support it. The migrant card system is already operational. In January alone, more than 60,000 immigrants were given money for anonymous credit cards, which could not be identified at all and would otherwise be confronted with existing EU legislation. They also demand African pilot projects. In a resolution in September, the European Commission even demanded that these be launched before the end of last year. They want to give more money to political activist groups, and experience shows that they are political activist groups that otherwise support immigration. And if you ask how much money you would support them with plus: HUF 570 billion, with which the problem is that it is multiple times the amount that the parties in Hungary receive, the parties supported by the state, so that would fundamentally upset the power relations, also on the issue of immigration. And let us not talk about the fact that last year, in May 2018, the European Commission put a proposal on the table on the basis of which the payment of EU funds would also be made, in addition to economic development, to who accepts immigrants and who does not. Now, you say that there are no plans here, and there is no pro-immigration majority in the European Parliament. I suggest you look at the European Parliament's minutes, you will see that you have supported these plans, which you are denying here. This is the fundamental problem that the plans in Brussels have been separated from the will of citizens, and this is not sustainable in the long term, because there is always a consequence of bad policy, such as the Brexit, in which the European Commission has its responsibilities up to its neck, that is the case. That is why we say that there is a need for renewal in Europe, but this renewal must not be achieved from the outside, as Jobbik suggests, but with the opportunities, debates, proposals and arguments stemming from the reality of membership. We see that you want united states in Europe this is not a surprising development, knowing that your party president and his family business have been given a significant mandate from Brussels, but if this were to be done, it would be extremely detrimental to Hungary, because they would take away a lot of powers from us. For example, you are proposing that the family allowance be determined in Brussels, and because Brussels wants immigration at the same time, it is not difficult to see that this would mean that your family policy would support immigrants. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It's just one of many possible examples. I think that Hungarians do not support this. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-19-4	Thank you, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda, Mr Lajos Korózs, from the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party, asked for a speech: What is happening in health care? It's an address.
u2019-03-19-5	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, This is an excerpt from the events of the last two and a half months. By 2020, a million people will be left without a GP in Hungary. 11 percent of the general practitioners are over 60 years old and 11 percent are over 70 years old, but even if they try to sell their practice, they are not interested enough. According to a recent government research, 67.5 percent of GPs over the age of 60 are preparing to launch their practice within five years. According to the defense minister, there's no need to panic because there are only 54 people who have resigned at the Honvéd Hospital. Again, the majority of doctors are lacking in internal medicine, but many positions in pediatrics are also unfilled. Other: Minister Gulyás referred to the findings of an inquiry in Parliament that did not exist yet. In the autumn, Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, lectured the socialist politician who asked him why they had not read a report saying that everything was going well at the heart hospital in Budapest. For the record, I was this politician. It was also found that the hospital was required to correct serious problems at the end of the study, for example, to document the treatments in a realistic manner. Other: the Director General of János Hospital has been dismissed, the hospital has big plans for the government, the units of Semmelweis University are supposed to move there, and the center hospital in North Central Buda will be established, the buildings will be renovated, the tasks will be changed, the beds will decrease. For the record, I spent an entire day in this facility, looking more like a pigsty than a hospital. Other: Kásler:. The waiting lists are shortened, there are only 28,000 people waiting for health interventions to be planned. For the record, the waiting list for 70,000 to 80,000 was never true. Other: MNB analysis: at least 26 thousand workers are missing from primary care, outpatient and inpatient care, with whom a more balanced healthcare system could be ensured. The lack of a worker is even more significant than the lack of a doctor. Other: György Póta said in a background discussion on Thursday that half of the general pediatricians are over 60 years of age and 20 percent are already in their 70s, so many doctors are expected to fall out of the system and they will be impossible to replace in a short time. Other, two patients are also often operated on in the same operating room. This could be the case, for example, at Borsod County Hospital, where the general surgery and urological department of the Semmelweis Hospital in Miskolc and County Hospital were merged a few years ago, with the fact that intensive care capacity was not extended accordingly, there are currently only 16 intensive beds out of 24. Other: the first rescue unit reached the 17-year-old boy dying in the west subway three minutes from the rescue centre in half an hour, who died because of lack of assistance. I'm the only one who's asking why. [[9.20]] Other: on Thursday, four of the 11 stroke centers in Budapest and Pest county canceled patients' reception for various reasons. Again, it is as if nothing had happened, even after the death of a patient, the Honvéd Hospital continues to operate illegally, despite the enormous outrage caused by the death of a patient, in which the unorganized and illegal functioning of the Honvéd Hospital could have played a role. To this day, everything is as it was. With flawed personal decisions, poor HR policy, Honvéd Hospital has been pushed to the limit of its functionality by management, the highest level of which is led by an engineer. In addition to the Heim Pál Hospital, the children's clinic at the University of Debrecen won't let the parents who spent the night with their children in the hospital use the folding beds they received as a donation from civilians in hospitals. Instead, the hospital offers the parents a cosmetic chair that is perfectly unfit for rest and sleep, 45 centimeters wide. Again, oncotourism in Eastern Central Europe. Insurance games and a fight to survive. We went to the teacher's appointment in order, but I had to wait for classes every time. There was nothing wrong with that, but there was no way that at least half of the people who were waiting for entry were not Romanian, but Romanian, so that they did not speak a word of Hungarian. I'm guessing someone was translating for them inside, and they all had Taipei cards, and obviously they had nothing to do with Hungary. Another thing: Budapest, Pest County, the vaccination center was closed, the active classes in Csákvár in Fejér County were closed, the vascular surgery at Péterfy Hospital closed for just three months, and all the medical suppliers of the Albert Schweitzer Hospital in sixty have resigned. You did this. That's why 24,000 people die unduly in Hungary, even according to the Minister. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-19-6	Thank you, Congressman Lajos Korózs. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said.
u2019-03-19-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I would certainly reject two things from what you have said, honourable Member, before I have anything else to say. On the one hand, it means that you speak of the doctors and nurses at John's Hospital as being a pigsty. I'm gonna turn that down on behalf of the hospital staff. That is no way to talk about people who have spent their lives in nursing care, healing, and working at the hospital. The Hungarian Socialist Party and the opposition parties could stop liking Transylvanian Szeklers. We also reject, for our part, that you make such statements here in Parliament. Let me tell you what you have done, honourable Member. For you, health care was just business, which is not commercially understandable, which is not privatizable, and you let it go down, underfunded, took money from him. As part of this withdrawal, you didn't develop hospitals, you closed hospitals. The children's hospital in Svábhegy has been closed, the National Psychiatric and Neurological Institute has been closed, the Szabolcs Street Hospital has been closed, the Schöpf-Mere Hospital has been closed. The hospital that wasn't closed was shut down 16,000 active beds. Now they're worried about getting enough medical workers, and when they were on the government, 6,000 medical workers were laid off. You, who remain in health care, took a month's wages. It was not about how the wage increase was related to raising the wages of law enforcement workers or raising the wages of teachers, but about taking wages from these people, reducing their salaries. You have tried to reduce the overload of hospitals or clinics by paying people visitation fees and hospital daily allowances, in case they pay less to go to hospitals and clinics and less to use this care. Hungary was therefore disgraced, Hungary was the only country under your governance of the OECD Member States, the only one of all developed economies whose health expenditure per capita was reduced. They grew for all other countries, only decreased in Hungary, as shown by the OECD. You're the only ones who've reduced the amount of money to help people. [[There's a lot of noise on the opposition side. Dr. Tamás Bellozó: You've been ruling for nine years!]] On the other hand, the seventh largest increase since 2010, according to the same OECD statement. So if we want to show the difference between your health governance and ours, yours was the only one that was reduced and ours was the seventh most grown. And where can this be seen, honourable Member? Where are the extra resources, the HUF 647 billion we made as a surplus? [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: You've been ruling for nine years!]] You're asking for nine years, Congressman Bellozó. How many hospitals have you renovated, in whole or in part? [[Zsolt Gréczy: 100! Dr. János Fónagy: Don't talk nonsense! None! Zsolt Gréczy: Don't talk nonsense!]] We did seventy-seven. I think both of your representatives are yelling exactly how seriously they're actually taking this question because they're yelling at any number. Honourable Congressman, Out of HUF 500 billion, 77 hospitals were renovated in whole or in part, 54 clinics were renovated in whole or in part, 104 rescue stations were modernised, 23 completely new clinics were built, 31 completely new rescue stations were built, and we will continue this in Budapest from HUF 700 billion in the framework of the Budapest Healthy Program. And I'd like to tell you a few more facts in the wake of the wage increase. While you reduced the wages of doctors and nurses [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Why are you lying?]] We've been raising doctors' wages for the last two years. You were the only government, Congressman. [[There's a lot of noise on the opposition side.]] since the change of regime, you have been the only Hungarian government who has reduced the wages of healthcare workers. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Mr. President! Because he's a secretary of state, he doesn't have to lie!]] All public sector workers' wages have been reduced. There has been no other government in Hungary since the change of regime, who would have taken wages from doctors and nurses, who would have reduced their income. [[Zsolt Gréczy: There was a 50 percent wage increase in our time.]] Just and only you, honourable Member, no matter how much you shout. In 2012, we raised the wages of nurses and doctors working in health care by 27 percent, and in the last two years we raised the wages of doctors by HUF 207 thousand. Over the past four years, we have raised the wages of nurses by 65.5 percent. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Then why do so many doctors and nurses go abroad?]] And if you're looking at the next four years, Congressman, compared to this year, you're looking at a 72-percent nurse's salary increase. The number of graduates at medical school increased from 1040 to 1521 by one and a half times. We've spent nine billion forints on the residency program, which you've spent zero on. We're going to spend 4.4 billion forints on a career-choice scholarship for nursing students, which you're going to spend zero on. In order to qualify for higher education, we guarantee nurses a grant of HUF 320 thousand per semester of HUF 640 thousand worth of HUF 1.8 billion for which you have zero. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Then why are they going abroad? Why were they here in our time, and why are they leaving now?]] For the construction of the nurses' hostels, we're going to spend 8.5 billion forints on which you're going to spend zero. In our time, honourable Member, if you look at the number of doctors when you handed over the government, the Hungarian official records included 33 943 doctors, and now you're yelling at less. It shows that they don't know what's going on. Now instead of 33 943, there are 39 132 doctors. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-19-8	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for the patience of the pro-government representatives and Bence Rétvári. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Balázs Ander, a representative of the Jobbik Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech:, How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-03-19-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In the beginning, a parentheses note: it is truly amazing that Secretary Dömötör also deals with Jobbik's past in reply to a DK question. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Because you are together!]] One day, Mr. Secretary of State, you will answer that at some point you have been a very enthusiastic activist in the formation of Jobbik. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] It's amazing who this couple let in. That's it. Orbán said on 6 March 2018 that no immigrants should be allowed in. It is true that there was also an example of Viktor Orbán talking about not watching what he says, but what he is doing. Jobbik is not a fan of the artificially created multi-kultian cafeteria, we believe the excellent Harvard professor, Putmap, who believes that mass immigration is a bad influence on social capital, on social trust, and we also believe Thilo Sarrazin, the former German Social Democratic politician, who said that Germany is liquidating itself with mass immigration. This is why we are horrified at the horrendous population explosion that is taking place in the poverty regions of Africa and Asia, which, combined with the greed of multi-companies exploiting the third world and global climate change, is a supply for illegal migration. However, it is also necessary to see that the blood-primitive, hateful Fidesz propaganda has found a number of home-based, family-based, country-growing people have been insulted from Nigerian South Somogy GP to the Palestinian neurologist in Baranya to the Yemeni pediatrician. Let us examine what the government has done in practice, unlike the nice - sounding national defense lozunges. Between 2015-17, 86 thousand immigrants came to Hungary. [[9.30]] But in addition to legal immigrants, illegal immigrants have also arrived in good numbers. The Austrian Federal Criminal Office has uncovered the lies of Fidesz, as the organization's 16 and 17 data show that 15 thousand illegal immigrants from Hungary have been captured in Austria. That is why it is incomprehensible why the government does not accept Jobbik's proposal to restore the border guard. Facts are stubborn, so let's continue with the numbers, fellow Members. In 2017 more immigrants came to our country in proportion to the government's view of Macron, a non-plus ultra of pro-immigration in France. If you look at the neighbours, the number of immigrants per thousand is half the level here in Poland, Croatia, Romania, but in Slovakia, for example, only one week. Let us subtract EU citizens from the formula, then we can see that Slovakia has adopted 500 non-EU citizens half our size, while the Orbáns have adopted 50 times as much, 25 thousand. And unfortunately, it's not about doctors and nuclear physicists. If the trend remains, this will be 34,000 people in 2022, and those from Africa and Asia will be more than the population of the entire county of Nógrád by then. In the light of these specific data, it is a net fidesz lie to claim that the government is effectively protecting Hungary from immigration. So, while billions are being pushed into stupid poster campaigns and in the pockets of buddies, they even view Hungarian people as completely stupid. The Menshevik regime, which combines the standards of a corrupt banana republic and a Bolshevik dictatorship, drives hundreds of thousands of agile young people who are dangerous to the West, thus increasing the number of hundreds of thousands of young people with Christian roots to the West. We do not understand what is the problem of Westerners with your politics, because they are only doing them good; and then bring in so cheap and unneeded workers instead, say, from Internal Ukraine, who will not object to the systematic breakdown of democracy, the suspicious formation of hundreds of billion-dollar oligarch assets. Well, that's what's really dangerous. Jobbik demands Hungarian quota for Hungarian jobs for a reason, and the government rejects this for a reason. So let us ask how credible the government's migration policy is. Obviously not at all. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The Jobbik!]] Obviously, it's all just a bluff of communication, a political product at Fidesz, just like using a civilian indicator. If necessary, thousands of settlement bonds will be sold to increase the bank accounts of offshore buddies by ten billion, and if necessary, they will dive into Goebbels, washing people's minds with propaganda from Finkelstein, Birnbaum. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You should know.]] But we're not surprised at that anymore. However, more and more people will realize, honourable Members, that Fidesz robber barons are capable of everything for money and power. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik. Interjection in the same place: That's right!]]
u2019-03-19-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to what has been said.
u2019-03-19-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I find it a rather hopeless attempt to refer back to the early 2000s, when some of Jobbik's politicians, today's politicians, organized university circles, where they were waiting for young people on the right, and, among other things, Fidesz people turned around to establish a radical party afterwards, and then go to the center, and now they find themselves in the arms of Ferenc Gyurcsány. So they could be in a lot of trouble if they had to do such hopeless experiments. Well, the thing is, your speech shows the identity crisis of Jobbik, because at the same time you say that the debate on immigration is brainwashing, not even a problem, you say that Jobbik is active in this case. Well, if you think this is a problem, let me ask you why the quota referendum has been drilled through. Then why didn't you vote for an anti-quota amendment? Why did your former president say the border lock was a failure? [[Martin Gyöngyösi: He just told me.]] They even attacked the border lock. And if, by the way, you're asking what this government has done to suppress immigration and trying to prove that the government has done nothing, then this is a rather hopeless attempt. This government has set up the border lock that you attacked. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: We supported it.]] This government has also decided on the legal border closure and will use all possible means to combat foreign-funded activist groups supporting immigration. At the same time, we are taking action against any proposal in favour of existing immigration in Brussels. And if we are not dealing with the past, we are not looking at what you said earlier, and how that is contrary to what you are saying now, then it is really worth talking about what we have to do now. And here I refer you back to what I just said: there are a lot of plans in the drawer and on the negotiating tables that we have to deal with. You know very well that the resettlement quota has not been removed from the agenda, which is why it is problematic that they cooperate with DK, which, by the way, has voted in favour of the quota. And the other opposition parties with whom you paraded on 15 March voted in favour of the quota; it is in the minutes. There is the issue of the migrant visa, which has also been voted on by left-wing representatives, with whom you are cooperating. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You bring in tens of thousands. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Why do you migrant Hungarians?]] There's the issue of the migrant card. Sixty thousand people got it in January. We have already talked about African pilot projects, as well as about giving more money to political activist groups with HUF 570 billion. Think about how much state aid you have and compare it with the extra money that these activist groups would receive to support immigration. They'll see that it would fundamentally upset the balance of power if this plan were to be passed. In such a situation, when there are at least seven or eight such proposals on the Brussels agenda, which should not be misunderstood, would be implemented as soon as the majority of them were able to do so after the election, in such a situation, it would be very necessary to stand up all parties which, by the way, act not only in words but also in actions against immigration. We regret that Jobbik cannot be expected in this struggle at all. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-19-12	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, on behalf of the LMP, also applied for a speech before the agenda:. The government's environmental policy is sacrificing everything on the altars of the multinationals and the Oligarchs near Fidesz? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-03-19-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Here in Parliament there is much talk about the government's dead-end economic policy, its social policy that is tearing society apart, but very little, almost nothing about the government's environmental policy. There's more and more to talk about. The potential for sustainable development is now limited by pollution of the environment, the exploitation of natural resources, the rapid loss of biodiversity, climate change and unsustainable production and consumption patterns. More and more people realize that there is no unlimited economic growth. Scientists point out that economic growth has a high cost, as we have failed to separate the growing environmental burden from GDP growth. We can also see this in a simple example. Since 2014, CO2 emissions have increased beyond GDP growth in Hungary, not to mention other environmental damage. Ladies and gentlemen, We need to realise that our environment has become limited, and this requires a stricter environmental policy from the government than ever before, both for the purposes of environmental policy and in its institutional and asset system. Unfortunately, the government is at an astronomical distance from realizing this challenge. Fidesz's governance since 2010 has brought the enforcement of our environmental rights, the weakening of environmental law and the institutional system, to a low level, even in the period before the regime change; especially when it is taken into account that this is motivated not by lack of knowledge, but by the exploitation of few. In this respect, we have joined the European Union in vain because our acquired and harmonised environmental rights are simply ignored by the government either by destroying the institutional system necessary for validation. This is why we are subject to infringement proceedings in several fields, even though the implementation of the relevant laws would be in our own interest; for example, that, due to air pollution, tens of thousands of our countrymen do not die prematurely in Hungary every year. In this regard, the latest decision of the Constitutional Court, according to which environmental protection and nature conservation aspects can no longer be considered in the decision-making of the holder of the powers of environmental protection and nature conservation authorities. [[9.40]] Unfortunately, that is not the case in reality. In recent years, the previous independent expert resolution, which is a mandatory and important element of the operative part of the official decision, has been replaced by the opinion of Fidesz executives, which the head of the government office appointed by Fidesz may even review without further delay. The government does not protect the environment, our natural values, the green surface, but only erode and destroy. Unlimitedly serve the interests of the multinationals, the Fidesz-oligarchs' all-eating appetite. For example, Lake Balaton has already been taken away from people almost completely, creating the opportunity to complete the sale of Lake Balaton. They write the reeds at Balatonakali, but it has no responsibility, or in Balatonfűzfő they cut down all the trees in Natura 2000 territory. What's the punishment? Nothing. Not only did this government fail, but it committed consciously when, because of its ambition and appetite for profit, it sacrificed the City Park, the Roman coast, cut down the trees to thousands in Budapest and across the country, causing irreversible environmental and natural damage through the privatisation of Lake Balaton, and to do so, it appoints itself outlawed by laws on investments and other laws that are of national importance. It's time for a change. The LMP invites Prime Minister Viktor Orbán to restore the institutional system of environmental and nature protection, with particular attention to the official tasks of environmental and nature protection; to establish the independent Ministry of Environment. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-03-19-14	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Sándor Farkas will respond to what has been said.
u2019-03-19-15	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman! Allow me to quote from our Fundamental Law a thought about the need to protect the natural values of the Carpathian Basin, and also to take responsibility for our offspring, and therefore to use our natural resources carefully to protect the living conditions of future generations. The government's decisions pay particular attention to the need to ensure a cleaner, more beautiful, more livable environment for future generations as well as today. In that, I think we agree. In 2010-2017 the government spent more than HUF 110 billion on environmental remediation. Here, I note quietly that Hungary's economy, the territory of Hungary, cannot bear the extremely serious damage that the economy after the Second World War has done to us, which is an environmental pollution which is causing the government to devote a very serious amount of energy and strength to this. It can't be cleaned overnight, so to speak, the territory of the country. The government aims to increase the size of the forest areas from 21 percent to 27 percent in Hungary. Let's hope this plan succeeds. Thanks to the programmes for the reconstruction of habitats, the state of natural values will improve at 100,000 hectares in the coming years. The OECD's latest environmental policy assessment of Hungary concluded that waste emissions decreased in 2008-2015 with increased economic performance. And you mentioned some of the numbers I'd like to respond to, and this is the next one. You said a few things about CO2 emissions. I would like to note here that the Hungarian value is around 6 tonnes and the EU average is 8 tonnes, so we are not as bad at this as you have put forward. In addition, while GDP exceeded pre-crisis levels in 2014-2015, greenhouse gas emissions remained far below our pre-crisis value in 2016. This is also a clear proof that the government takes emissions reduction seriously at both domestic and EU level, and is ready to support efforts that do not involve more economic burdens than necessary, yet can ensure sustainable development and the achievement of climate protection objectives. And I would also like to respond to another specific point, Madam Congresswoman, that she has said some points in order to protect Lake Balaton. Indeed, the Balaton is a value for all of us, and I think that for all Hungarian citizens and tourists visiting tourism, it is an unforgettable experience, and therefore we really need to protect the Balaton, but here I would like to discuss a few things with you and give you some thoughts. The Veszprém County Government Office of Veszprém, as an environmental and nature protection authority, initiated an ex officio audit on the case of the destruction of cane in Balatonakalin, which is currently underway. If the fact of damage to nature is confirmed during the verification, the determining government office shall impose an infringement penalty or, depending on the extent of the damage to nature, the government office may file a criminal complaint in addition to the application of the fine. In criminal proceedings initiated on the basis of a criminal complaint, the prosecutor may, at the request of the prosecutor, be ordered to pay compensation in the judgment. Another matter to which you have also referred, Madam Member, is the assessment of the potential damage to the nature of the wood cuttings in Balatonözfő. In this connection, I hereby indicate that the district office of Veszprém is also entitled to act and provide information. The Ministry of Agriculture shall not give instructions to the Government Office to carry out controls or official procedures and shall not detract from the powers of the determining authority pursuant to the Act on General Administrative Rules. Furthermore, the Ministry of Agriculture does not have the legal possibility to make a substantive statement on individual administrative matters conducted by the competent court. I would like to point out, Madam honourable Member, that you are initiating the establishment of a separate Ministry of the Environment. I would be very happy to invite you to the Ministry of Agriculture, and the appropriate Secretary of State will welcome you and tell you [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the possibilities, the plans, the thoughts that they are doing everything in the field of Hungarian nature conservation, so we are looking forward to seeing you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-19-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Tamás Mellar, representative of the Dialogue, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-03-19-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, In recent weeks, very ambitious targets have been set in government circles. Our Prime Minister said that by 2030 Hungary will have to catch up with the five most livable European countries, and we will achieve Austria's GDP per capita. President Matolcsy has set a slightly more modest target of 80% of Austrian GDP per capita by 2030. If we look at the latter, unfortunately, I have to say that this leads us only to the realm of fantasies, as this would mean that every year we have to produce a growth rate of 4 percentage points higher than the Austrians, so if the Austrians achieve an annual economic growth of 2 percent, then we should reach 6 percent each year, so that we could go up to 80 percent in 12 years. I think there is no need to describe why this cannot be achieved. To achieve the goals, the MNB has prepared a competitiveness package, which is a very interesting material. There's a lot of stuff in there. There are more good and eligible ideas, there is a programme, and of course there are less good programmes, and there are also some that are not really possible or really necessary to introduce. To mention some of the good ones, because I think that this is also very important, for example, to be explicitly supported by simplifying the tax administration, the further whitening of the economy is also to be welcomed. Cheaper banking and practical proposals are also to be supported. Encouraging the employee stock scheme would be very positive and desirable. The introduction of coupon subsidies in Hungary on a Polish model is also a programme that I think is absolutely welcome. [[9.50]] However, there are, of course, other positive programmes, but at the same time, the whole package is very strongly neoclassical, neoliberally inspired, not to say orthodox, despite the fact that Minister Matolcsy considers himself or himself to be an unorthodox economist. So, in fact, the market is building on market solutions, thinking that they can solve fundamental problems and instruments such as tax reductions. The reduction of taxes as a competitive instrument, I think, cannot be followed at all. Tax reductions can have a temporary positive effect, but in the long term it is not a good solution at all because it preserves an existing system. If you look at the most competitive countries, namely Denmark, Sweden or Finland, you will find that there are very high tax rates, so tax cuts cannot increase lasting competitiveness, and this is a very crucial point in this programme. The programme does not face the fundamental question of the need to develop human capital in order to create competitiveness. So here we should put in place a long-term programme, a 20-year education programme, in which they would consciously build a much more effective education system, from kindergarten to universities. Compared to this, the material says that more resources need to be spent on education, but if someone reads it in detail, it shows that more private resources need to be spent, which is very problematic, because it is moving from education to privatisation, which means that equal opportunities are falling and we are giving up a lot of talent. Children of poor families, if they can't go on studying, but they're talented, we're gonna lose this. The flexibility of the labour market is also a very interesting problem, but there is no solution for the government here, because there are no adequate re-training programmes, the problem of treating the unemployed is not solved, and labour mobility, which would require housing. But the Prime Minister said just yesterday that Hungarian people need their own apartment, they want their own house. If they have their own house, then labour mobility will be much slower, because man is not a slug, so he can't carry his house on his back, so we should decide which of the two goals we want. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-19-18	Thank you, Congressman Tamás Mellar. On behalf of the Government, Mr Péter Cseresnyés, State Secretary, responds to what has been said.
u2019-03-19-19	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to thank you for the words of appreciation, as you have expressed in a large part of your speech the recognition of the programme and the programmes, and perhaps you have also praised the results that the government has achieved in recent times, along with the people, through the efforts of the people. If you'll allow me, I'd like to respond in a few thoughts to the sentences and thoughts that you've said, since you said that there are good elements and less good elements of the program you've quoted. I felt in his speech that he was in a very serious struggle when he had to put up some kind of negative thought and sentence, because he did not find any significant problems in the programme and in the development of the past period. So you are in a difficult position, and I ask you, precisely because you could feel this difficult situation in your speech, to be patient, to see how the individual components of the programme are realized, and when we are at one of the stages of a process, it is worth evaluating the stage at which the programme element, the announced process, has achieved its results, what stage it is. If we look at the performance of the last 8-9 years, then it must be said that the comrades who destroyed this country between 2002 and 2010 have handed over a country in bankruptcy to the government have always been critical of the economic policy after 2010. Where it was criticized because it was said to be liberal, as you have classified economic policy, where their problem was that economic policy is not taking place in an orthodox way, but more and more people admit that the results we have achieved in the past are tangible. You mentioned two very important areas, one in the labour market and the other in the field of education. It's like you didn't live in this world, Congressman, when you said your criticism. For example, significant progress has been made in education, and the government and policy have made very serious efforts to make education more effective, more effective, both in primary and secondary schools and in vocational training. Just because we are in a process, this process started from 2011-12, and we have now come to the point of making and making new major changes in vocational training. During this period, perhaps two or three days ago, a significant report was made on the direction in which we intend to further develop vocational training. If you've been watching the news in the press, you've seen that vocational training, involving, of course, economic actors, will pay even more attention, and we want students out of the school bench with the knowledge and knowledge required by economic operators. You criticized in your speech that there are no adult education or adult education. I'd like to disprove it. We also want to place a very serious emphasis on higher education and adult education. The result of this is, for example, a significant increase in the number of people who have acquired the second profession in the last 4-5 years, which is the result of adult education and adult education. For example, more than 50,000 people are involved in adult education each year, which means that we have also achieved significant results in this area, and that every year more and more money is being put into adult education, both by economic operators and by the government. The flexibility of the labour market is no better demonstrated by the fact that there are about 800 thousand more people working today than in 2010; employment has increased significantly, unemployment has fallen significantly, and, for example, what he criticised is that the Hungarian labour force is not mobile enough and has not done anything to this end, I would like to disprove you. In recent years, the government has put in place significant regulations and changes to ensure that labour mobility is greater than before, for example by building workers' shelters, financial support, tax base descriptions, which helped access to work. The results that we have achieved could still be mentioned, but perhaps we will also do so next time, Congressman. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-19-20	Thank you, Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Harrach, leader of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, has also applied for a pre-meeting address on our freedom and independence.
u2019-03-19-21	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Before I turn to this topic, which refers to recent events on 15 March, let me remind you that mental health professionals often draw our attention to a positive attitude, to strive to see the good and the good in everything, because this is important for mental health and the health of society. Yesterday, when there were opposition contributions here, I tried to apply it with moderate success, I must say. It wasn't easy to discover the beauty in it, but I managed to get a little hope that it was just a campaign text, and maybe those who say it don't believe it, and yet another hope is that the emotions that have formed here will not permanently destroy the state of Hungarian public life. And speaking of Hungarian public life, let me also speak about our holidays, because it is individual freedom and national independence that is formulated in us on 15 March. [[10.00]] Personal freedom, in our view, is that the moral nature law written inside us enables us to distinguish between right and wrong. And if we do that, then in a specific case, our conscience will guide us in this direction, and in the direction of his good choice, provided that we have a healthy conscience. And in the end, free will will will help you carry it all out. Here, somewhere, is the essence of personal freedom in the functioning of free will. This means an internal freedom, not a freedom free from coercion, free from external coercion, but free from internal dependence. Unfortunately, if we are to apply this idea to today's world, we must see that, contrary to the teaching of tolerance in the liberal world, practice means that only liberal thinking is accepted. The ideologists of open society have also formulated this, and now there is no time for me to go into detail. I would rather move on to the issue of national independence. During the first five hundred years of our history, thanks to the policy of St. Stephen and his successors, we were never under the rule of empires, but unfortunately, we became vulnerable to German, Turkish or Russian empires, and this increased our desire for national independence even more. If I am thinking again that we are trying, in some way, to apply this to today's affairs or to ask the question of how we stand now, then we must say that as a member of the Union, we are exercising together certain elements of our independence, as we are used to say, we have not given up on it, but in particular we are not giving up on the rest, and we are protecting it. We are not thinking in the united states of Europe, but in the alliance of free nations, and this, I believe, is also in line with our historical traditions that I have tried to refer to. There is one condition for national independence: a kind of national unity. This is often mentioned, but unfortunately it is rarely realized. What I referred to at the outset in the context of the positive approach is the shortcomings that appear here in Parliament or outside Parliament today. I hope that, and once again, the hope that I have for a positive view is that, after the campaigns have passed, this will also be somewhat settled and we will be able to achieve a national unity on important issues. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-19-22	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári will respond.
u2019-03-19-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, To his opening comment on the opposition, I would only respond that the Hungarian opposition is really hurt by two things. One, when faced with its own previous measures, the other, when faced with its own earlier statements and speeches. I would like to abolish both of them, and I would like to forget both of them, because the eloquent proof of their inadequacy and demise is the evidence of both of them. [[Uproar, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] Dear Chief of Staff, The duty of a government is always to protect the country's independence, to serve the country's independence. If there is a government in a country that does not do this, if there are politicians in a country whose goal is both in rhetoric and in votes and in votes here, even in the European Parliament... if it is not to defend national independence, but to try to pass powers beyond sovereign decision-making, that is to say, beyond the Hungarian Parliament and the Hungarian government, it is not a real government, but it is a governor. Those people don't want to run the country, they want to run the country as governors on behalf of other leaders. Such governments rarely go into history with glory, usually on the darker pages of history books. So every government, every politician, every politician who sits here in Parliament would have the task, as many in 1848-49 were willing to risk or sacrifice their lives to serve and increase the independence of the nation, and not to give up anything. 171 years ago, they did not want to give up any of it so much that after they had won it in a constitutional way and put the nation's extended freedom and independence into law on 14 April; after the emperor came to power and tried to take it away from us, they were willing to defend it with a weapon. That's why we national-minded politicians say we don't give in to 48. But we can also say, especially after all these months, years of experience, that we don't want any of the 49. We do not ask for the threat, which used to be accompanied by military forces, now accompanied by other sanctions and media power. We don't want any retorts from different monitoring committees. We do not ask for retaliation attempts, or withdrawal of money, nor ask for oppression, nor ask for us to be regarded as second-rate, second-class citizens whose only function is to serve the ruler as a kind of subject. This world is gone, fellow Members. I am curious to see when the decision-makers of the European Union will reach where Franz József reached from 1849 to 1867, from the threat, from retaliation, from oppression to reconciliation. When they get there, they finally look at the map of Europe as equal nations with equal freedom to the east of Lajta and to the west of Lajta, and with due respect to the peoples of Eastern Europe, their grievances should be considered as as an insult to the Western European countries. I am thinking, for example, of the crimes of the Communist dictatorship, and I am thinking of the time when they did not consider the red star a symbol that could be punished. And when are you willing to consider that the people who live here, the companies that live here, must have the same opportunities as Western Europeans? When the time comes for the Brussels leadership to recognize what Ferenc József recognized in 1867, it is well symbolized by the decoration of our parliamentary building here, which goes from a kind of freedom challenge to the crowning of Franz Joseph, and the one who was sentenced to death by Franz József, on this wall painting, is crowning Joseph Ferenc. It also shows that there have been great conflicts in Hungarian history, there have been break-up tests in Hungarian history, but when the people to the west of Lajta finally realized that there are people living here, and that the rights and interests of these people must be respected as well as those of Western Europe, it is really time for both economic and cultural development. [[Martin Gyöngyösi intervenes.]] For us, the pro-immigration, the promotion of immigration are unacceptable on the part of all Western European and other political forces. We cannot have a community with those who would like that, and we find it unacceptable to be forced to do so. If there is a sharp conflict, then there will be a conflict, but we have been empowered by the Hungarian voters to defend the country. For us, those European allies who dare to say that they are a family are not just gender; who dares to say that they are a nation and not say that they are national; who dare to say that they are a Christian culture and not flee to the multicultural. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear House, Many have mocked our Polish friends today, who came here and celebrated with us the 15th of March. You know, the difference is when you're at the Museum Garden at the Bem Statue. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] the Hungarian and Polish flags were flying together, neither nation was offended by the flag of the other nation, did not want to have the symbols of the other country removed by reference to tolerance or by reference to national sensitivity, but these countries can celebrate with a heart and soul. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-19-24	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Böröcz, from the Fidesz Group, has applied for a pre-meeting speech entitled 'Our current affairs'. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-03-19-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, There is tangible evidence that in Brussels there are committed supporters of the UN migration package who want to make it legally binding on all EU Member States. If we recall the debates around the migration package, then we can remember that every argument in favour of its adoption, against Hungary's withdrawal from the package, is that it will not be binding on anyone but those who wish to make it binding on themselves. However, a secret document has been published showing that the European Commission's legal service is working on the references to making the migration package mandatory. [[10.10]] This document, which contains the word "binding" about 80 times, was tried in secret. Although the European Commission acknowledged its existence, only after it was made public in a way other than its intentions. Brussels intends to make the document legally binding. It is clear that there are patrons and executives of the migration package in Brussels, as it is rarely the case that such a legal opinion is not ordered, without any task. [[Noise. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Nobody seems to care about that.]] Brussels's worst lie has come to light so far, because there is a serious and committed work to find a legal basis for saying with a long, devious legal argument that the migration package is binding on the Member States. Among other things, the Commission wants the EU's development policy to be subject to the objectives of the migration package. This means that taxpayers' money, development resources, must be spent on migration-promoting processes. It also includes the need for Member States to contribute to the achievement of the EU's objectives, including the implementation of the Global Migration Package. Péter Szijjártó has already initiated a discussion at the next Council of EU Foreign Ministers on an extraordinary item on the agenda on what secret plans are being made on the basis of the mandate of the European Commission and what the content of these plans is. The citizens of the European Union have the right to know what secret plans the European Commission is making behind their backs and even more undermines the security of the continent. Brussels was well-known for its intention to push the UN's global migration package down the throat of all European countries. Almost all the debates in the UN last year were about this package, which Hungary rejected as the first EU country, and then eight other European countries decided to do so. During the preparatory phase, Hungary has been threatened with infringement procedures so as not to hinder the common European position. Now they're trying to do everything they can to make the package legally binding for everyone. The European Commission's legal service contains false references as migration policy falls within national competence. The UN Global Migration Package does nothing but legalize illegal migration and, by definition, declare that all countries in the world must participate in migration. [[Sic! It's constant noise.]] The European Commission's ambition is dangerous because if the global package were to be made mandatory, for example, migrants would have to provide the same services as people legally resident in the country who pay taxes there. This would further inspire migration processes, which would further increase the threat of terrorism. This means that the battle is not over, and even a new battle begins against Brussels' secret pro-immigration plans, as Minister Szijjártó recently said. Hungary continues to insist that the global migration package will not be implemented in any way. And I would like to draw the attention of honourable opposition representatives [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: No paper?]] an article published today about the German occupation of Hungary 75 years ago. [[Intercoms from the ranks of independents. The president's ringing the bell.]] It is worth reading, even in the context of migration, because it may not always be necessary to look outside, outside the borders for supporters, because each country in the world, the Member States of the European Union, the great powers, is looking only for their own interests. [[Lajos Rig: The Russians, too!]] And believe me, it would be better if they tried to meet the Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-19-26	Thank you very much, Mr László Böröcz. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Pál Völner will respond. [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2019-03-19-27	Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The migration problem that we are struggling with today was launched in 2015. We remember well when Prime Minister announced in Parliament in February 2015 that the biggest challenge for the coming period will be immigration. We also remember very well what opposition reactions this announcement produced: practically everyone laughed at it, questioned it, wanted to make this statement ridiculous. Only in Mr Schiffer's head of the LMP was so decency afterwards that he saw that his speech at that time was not justified, because the events of summer 2015 confirmed that the immigrants had flowed over to 100,000 numbers, and that the then Dublin Schengen system had not prevented this flood. I would also like to note that the provisions of the Schengen system have not been complied with either by the old Member States of the Union or by its core states, and this has resulted in millions of immigrants falling on Western Europe, the Union. As we said then, a bizarre coalition of human smugglers and political NGOs called defenders was formed to lead this process. [[It's constant noise.]] And if someone thinks that this was an accident, that overpopulation and wars have caused this migration, I would like to draw their attention to the fact that earlier, when changing the Dublin system in 2013, when the shelters had to be removed, they embedded this process, and later EU legislation clearly indicated that it was a very conscious and managed process. Just think of the quota issue, which came up on a voluntary basis in the Council of Heads of State and Prime Ministers in the summer of 2015, and this political guidance was born. However, in September 2015, the Council of Home Ministers decided that, on the basis of a majority proposal, on the basis of a majority vote, each Member State is obliged to accept immigrants on the basis of a certain quota allocated on the basis of a principle called the Juncker formula. So the President of the Commission has, to say the least, given his name for this process and was born with the support of the Commission. We remember the quota lawsuit very well, where Slovakia and Hungary attacked this resolution, and where it was said it was practically a temporary measure, which expired in the autumn of 2017, and therefore our claim was not accepted that there was no legislative act. Nevertheless, we are still in a lawsuit with the Commission and the Council on this matter, as we have been attacked by the failure to comply with this decision. Hungary has made a number of constructive proposals to help and support the various actions on the ground, but it felt the whole time, and perhaps until Italy was in line and the sea flood was stopped, they argued that immigration could be contained at all with a border closure, a fence, a legal border closure and a live force. The past period has shown that Europe is able to defend itself with the help of the Member States, but they are constantly trying to take away the power to have border surveillance in national jurisdiction. This is part of the process, as indicated in the UN migration package: if one of the ways does not go through this issue, they will even try to obtain support at a global level. And the typical example of stealth legislation is this, too, when there is a recommendation that is said not to be mandatory, and then we know very well that after that, the various court forums are already putting it into practice. And as you can see, in this document it is also stated that they want to make it a part of EU legislation, and they want to remove this issue from the unanimous vote, and they want to go ahead with a majority decision on this matter. It can also be seen in the newly created budgetary framework that they wish to raise the support of political NGOs to the cohesion funds, to have the communication force, the pressure on the Member States to give in on these matters. And the sad thing is that we are not only under pressure from Brussels, but also within the Hungarian parliament a coalition, which we can also call a bizarre coalition, because from the far right to the far left, everyone who virtually sings in support of this process is a part of it. We hope that they will fail in the same way, both in recent years. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-19-28	Thank you, Secretary of State, Pál Völner. [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Before we continue our work with the decisions on the agenda, I declare that the extraordinary meeting of the House Committee will take place today at 12 a.m. in the Parliament's Béla Varga Hall. [[10.20]] Dear Parliament, Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. We will therefore continue our work with decisions. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] It follows from the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement establishing a partnership between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Uzbekistan, of the other part, on the publication of the Protocol to the Agreement extending the provisions of the Agreement to bilateral trade in textiles with a view to the expiry of the bilateral trade agreement. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4074. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 164 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows the T/4474 agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on the promotion and mutual protection of investments. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4474. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 149 votes, 3 votes against and 14 abstentions. It follows from the Agreement between the European Community and its Member States, of the one part, and the Swiss Confederation, of the other part, on the free movement of persons, the publication of the Protocol on the participation of the Republic of Croatia as a Contracting Party to the Agreement by reason of its accession to the European Union. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/4072/6. T/4072/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/4072/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 162 votes in favour, no votes against, with 6 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4072/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 168 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows from the 2007 Annex XVII on certain aspects of the procedure relating to agricultural, agricultural and rural development and fisheries aid and other measures. T/4481. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/4481/5. T4481/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/4481/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 139 votes in favour, 7 against and 22 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4481/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 139 votes in favour, 7 against and 22 abstentions. The T/4070 on the publication of the Convention on the Mutual Recognition of Qualifications, Qualifications and Scientific Degrees between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Russian Federation follows. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The rapporteur is Mr T/4070/6. has submitted an adjustment, which is available on the network. T/4070/7. and a summary report by T/4070/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/4070/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 161 votes in favour, 5 against and 1 abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4070/9. A single proposal, together with the adjustment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 160 votes in favour, 6 against and 3 abstentions. It follows from the publication of the T/4362 Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/4362/6. T/4362/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/4362/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 161 votes in favour, no votes against, with 7 abstentions. [[10.30]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4362/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 169 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Next up is the 2001 LXIV on the protection of cultural heritage. T/4075. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/4075/5. T/4075/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/4075/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 115 votes in favour, 54 against and without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4075/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 114 votes to 54, with no abstentions. The 2011 CCIV on national higher education follows. T/4516. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4516. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 115 votes in favour, 50 against and four abstentions. It follows that T/4821 on the necessary amendment of certain laws to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in the event of its irregular exit from the European Union will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/4821/5. and the summary report by T/4821/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/4821/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 162 votes in favour, no votes against, with 7 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/4821/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 168 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with disciplinary decisions. I would like to inform you that the Speaker of the House is the 51/A Act on Parliament. According to paragraph 1 of Article 13 of the Act of Accession of the Republic of Croatia, the Court of Justice of the European Union shall have jurisdiction to rule on the application of Article 13 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 13 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 13 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 13 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Mr Ander Balázs, Péter Jakab, Lajos Rig and János Stummer, Mr Gergely Arató, Zsolt Gréczy, László Hajdu, dr. Imre László, dr. Lajos Oláh, Dr. Ágnes Vadai and László Varju, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, dr. Zita Gurmai, dr. Tamás Harangozó, Dezső Belitő, Lajos Korózs, Ágnes Kunhalmi, Gyula Molnár, dr. Zsolt Molnár, Sándor Szabó, József Tóbias, dr. Bertalan Tóth and dr. László László MSZP representatives, Mr. Members have asked the immunity committee to repeal the decisions. The Committee shall, in the case of the above Members, be governed by the Parliamentary Act 51/A. § 6 could not make a decision within the time limit. Next, the Act on Parliament 51/A. Pursuant to Article 9 of the Act, Members have asked the Parliament to repeal the decisions of the Speaker. In view of this, the house rules are 148. H/5174-5186, H/5188-5193, H/5226-5230. and H/5282-5293. in figures, the same content as the previous decisions to reduce Members' due fees. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the proposals for decisions, the related decisions of the Speaker of the House, the relevant requests made by representatives and the information provided by the Chairman of the Committee on Exemptions are available on the website. In accordance with the provisions of the House Rules, no proposal or Commission report may be submitted to amend the proposals for decisions. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in the case of a Member, the decision of the Speaker is annulled by the Parliament, the due fee of the Member is not reduced, the Act on Parliament 51/A. Paragraph 1 of Section 1 shall terminate the proceedings brought against him. The Speaker's decisions on the reduction of the fee shall be decided by Parliament without discussion, separately for each representative. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament that the House President's decision to reduce the due fee of Mr Ander Balázs is maintained by H/5226. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 114 votes in favour, 54 votes against and 1 abstention. [[10.40]] I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament that the House President's decision to reduce Mr Gergely Arató's due fee is maintained in the scope of the H/5174. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 113 votes in favour, 54 against and 1 abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament, in its scope, the House President's decision to reduce the due fees of Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély is maintained by H/5282. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 113 votes in favour, 55 votes against and one abstention. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament that the House President's decision to reduce the due fees of Congresswoman Anett Bősz is maintained in the scope of the H/5230. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 114 votes in favour, 53 against, with two abstentions. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament that the House President's decision to reduce the due fee of Mr Sándor Burány is maintained in the scope of the H/5193. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 113 votes in favour, 54 against and 1 abstention. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament that the House President's decision to reduce the due fee of Mr Csárdi Antal is maintained in the scope of the H/5178. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 114 votes in favour, 54 votes against and 1 abstention. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament that the House President's decision to reduce the due fees of Congresswoman Márta Demeter is maintained in the scope of the H/5179. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 114 votes in favour, 54 votes against and 1 abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain in its scope the decision of the Speaker to reduce Mr Zsolt Gréczy's due fee is set out in H/5177. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 114 votes in favour, 54 votes against and 1 abstention. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament that the House President's decision to reduce the due fee of Dr. Zita Gurmai is maintained in the scope of the H/5283. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 113 votes in favour, 53 against and 1 abstention. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament that the House President's decision to reduce the due fee of Mr László Hajdu is maintained in the scope of the H/5175. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 112 votes in favour, 55 votes against and one abstention. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament that the House President's decision to reduce the due fee of Dr. Tamás Harangozó is maintained in the scope of the H/5284. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 114 votes in favour, 54 votes against and 1 abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament, in its scope, the House President's decision to reduce Mr Dezső H/5285's due fee is maintained. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 113 votes in favour, 54 against and 1 abstention. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament that the House President's decision to reduce the due fees of Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn is maintained in the scope of the H/5180. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 113 votes in favour, 53 against and 1 abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain in its scope the decision of the Speaker of the House to reduce the due fee of Congressman Péter James in H/5229. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 114 votes in favour, 53 against and 1 abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament, in its scope, the decision of the Speaker of the House to reduce the due fee of Mr Lóránt Keresztes László is maintained by H/5182. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 113 votes in favour, 53 against and 1 abstention. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament that the House President's decision to reduce the due fees of Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio is maintained in the scope of the H/5191. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 112 votes in favour, 52 against and 1 abstention. [[10.50]] I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament that the House President's decision to reduce Mr Lajos Korózs' due fee is maintained in the scope of the H/5286. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 112 votes in favour, 53 against and 1 abstention. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament that the House President's decision to reduce the due fees of Congresswoman Ágnes Kunhalmi is maintained in the scope of the H/5287. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 113 votes in favour, 53 against and 1 abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament, in its scope, the House President's decision to reduce the due fee of Mr Imre László is maintained by H/5190. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 114 votes in favour, 54 votes against and 1 abstention. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the decision of the Speaker of the House to reduce the due fee of Mr Tamás Mellár in the scope of the H/5189. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 111 votes in favour, 55 votes against and one abstention. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament that the House President's decision to reduce the due fees of Congressman Gyula Molnár is maintained in the scope of the H/5288. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 114 votes in favour, 54 votes against and 1 abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament, in its scope, the House President's decision to reduce the due fee of Mr Zsolt Molnár is the H/5289. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 114 votes in favour, 54 votes against and 1 abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain in its scope the decision of the Speaker of the House to reduce the due fee of Congressman Lajos Oláh is set out in H/5188. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 114 votes in favour, 54 votes against and 1 abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain in its scope the decision of the Speaker of the House to reduce the due fee of Congressman Lajos Rig is held by H/5227. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 113 votes in favour, 54 against and 1 abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain in its scope the decision of the Speaker of the House to reduce the due fee of Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck is set out in H/5183. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 114 votes in favour, 54 votes against and 1 abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament, in its scope, the House President's decision to reduce the due fees of Congressman János Stummer is H/5228. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 114 votes in favour, 54 votes against and 1 abstention. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament that the House President's decision to reduce the due fee of Mr Sándor Szabó is maintained in the scope of the H/5290. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 114 votes in favour, 54 votes against and 1 abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain in its scope the decision of the Speaker of the House to reduce the due fees of Congresswoman Szabó Timea is being taken by H/5181. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 112 votes in favour, 54 votes against and 1 abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament, in its scope, the House President's decision to reduce the due fees of Dr. Bernadett Szél is held by H/5176. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 114 votes in favour, 53 against and 1 abstention. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament that the House President's decision to reduce the due fee of Mr Tobias József is maintained in the scope of the H/5291. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 113 votes in favour, 54 against and 1 abstention. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament that the House President's decision to reduce the due fees of Congressman Bence Torda is maintained in the scope of the H/5192. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 115 votes in favour, 54 votes against and no abstentions. [[11.00]] I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament that the House President's decision to reduce the due fee of Mr Bertalan Tóth is maintained in the scope of the H/5292. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 114 votes in favour, 54 votes against and 1 abstention. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament that the House President's decision to reduce Mr Ungár Péter's due fee is maintained in the scope of the H/5184. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 112 votes in favour, 54 votes against and 1 abstention. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament that the House President's decision to reduce the due fees of Congresswoman Ágnes Vada is maintained in the scope of the H/5186. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 113 votes in favour, 54 against and 1 abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament, in its scope, the decision of the Speaker of the House to reduce the due fee of Mr László Varga is maintained by H/5293. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 113 votes in favour, 54 against and 1 abstention. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament that the House President's decision to reduce the due fee of MEP László Varju is maintained in the scope of the H/5185. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 113 votes in favour, 54 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, I now ask Mr Attila Gelencsér to present the decisions that have been adopted.
u2019-03-19-29	According to the decisions of the Parliament adopted just now, the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. Act No. Ogytv. 51/A. Acting in its power under paragraph 13 of Section 13 of the Act, the Speaker's decisions to reduce the due fees of Members of Parliament who are subject to disciplinary decisions are maintained in their scope and thus: Ander Balázs's honor fee is OE-41/176-1/2019. by decision No 445 500 forints; Gergely Arató's prize is OE-41/172-1/2019. by decision No 1 514 700 forints; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély's prize is OE-41/169-1/2019. by decision No 1 514 700 forints; Anett Bősz's prize is OE-41/166-1/2019. by decision No. 1 069 200 forints; Sándor Burány's prize is OE-41/165-1/2019. by decision No 1 514 700 forints; Antal Csárdi's prize is OE-41/196-1/2019. by decision No 504 900 forints; Márta Demeter's fee is OE-41/194-1/2019. by decision No 445 500 forints; Zsolt Gréczy's prize is OE-41/191-1/2019. by decision No. 1 069 200 forints; Dr. Gurmai Zita's fee is OE-41/189-1/2019. by decision No. 1 069 200 forints; László Hajdu's prize is OE-41/185-1/2019. by decision No 1 247 400 forints; Dr. Tamás Harangozó's fee is OE-41/180-1/2019. by decision No 1 514 700 forints; Dezső gullible prize is OE-41/178-1/2019. by decision No 1 514 700 forints; Krisztina Hohn's prize is OE-41/201-1/2019. by Decision No 356 400 forints; Peter James's prize is OE-41/200-1/2019. by decision No 1 247 400 forints; Dr. László Lóránt Keresztes's prize is OE-41/199-1/2019. by Decision No 594,000 forints; Car Cake Olivio's prize is OE-41/198-1/2019. 1 336 500 HUF as decided; Lajos Korózs's prize is OE-41/168-1/2019. by decision No 1 514 700 forints; Ágnes Kunhalmi's honor fee is OE-41/167-1/2019. 1 336 500 HUF by decision No. Dr. Imre László's prize is OE-41/164-1/2019. by decision No. 1 069 200 forints, Dr. Tamás Mellár's prize is OE-41/174-1/2019. 1 336 500 HUF as decided; Gyula Molnár's prize is OE-41/173-1/2019. 1 336 500 HUF by decision No. Dr. Zsolt Molnár's fee is OE-41/171-1/2019. 1 336 500 HUF by decision No. Dr. Lajos Oláh's fee is OE-41/170-1/2019. 1 336 500 HUF as decided; Lajos Rig's prize is OE-41/179-1/2019. by decision No 445 500 forints, Erzsébet Schmuck's prize is OE-41/177-1/2019. by decision No 504 900 forints, János Stummer's prize is OE-41/175-1/2019. by decision No 415 800 forints, Sándor Szabó's prize is OE-41/182-1/2019. by decision No 1 514 700 forints; [[11.10]] Szabó Timea's prize is OE-41/184-1/2019. by decision No. 1 782,000 forints; Dr. Bernadett Wind's fee is OE-41/186-1/2019. by decision No. 1 069 200 forints; József Tobias's prize is OE-41/187-1/2019. by Decision No 891,000 forints; Bence Tordai's prize is OE-41/188-1/2019. by decision No 1 514 700 forints; Dr. Bertalan Tóth's fee is OE-41/190-1/2019. by decision No. 1 782,000 forints; Péter Ungár's prize is OE-41/192-1/2019. by Decision No 356 400 forints; Dr. Ágnes Vadai's honor fee is OE-41/193-1/2019. by decision No 1 514 700 forints; Dr. László Varga's honor fee is OE-41/195-1/2019. by decision No 1 514 700 forints; László Varju's prize is OE-41/197-1/2019. By decision No. 1 514 700 HUF is reduced.
u2019-03-19-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday, the Parliament has already held a hearing on these matters. I ask you, you will be included in a series of articles entitled T/4668 on the amendment of Act L of 2018 on Hungary's central budget for 2019 to support the medicine developed for the treatment of SMA disease. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the bill by 56 votes in favour, 91 against, with two abstentions. I ask you, you will be included in a series of articles entitled T/4783 by Mrs Márta Demeter, Member of the LMP and fellow Members of the Council. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 51 votes in favour, 99 against and 2 abstentions. I ask you, you will be included in a series of articles by Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Lóránt LMP leader and his fellow Members, on the transparency of the state security past, and on the amendments to the law necessary to exclude the professional staff of pro-state leaders and dictatorship from the wearing of certain public offices, with the title T/4784. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not include the bill with 54 votes in favour, 97 votes against and two abstentions. Dear Parliament, Thank you for your cooperation, we've reached the end of the decisions, and I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break. Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] Dear Parliament, With all due respect, Members who do not now take part in the work in this Chamber, please step out into the corridor. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Take your seats. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. There will be a general debate on the bill on the legislative amendments necessary for the implementation of the family protection action plan until closure. The government referral is T/5132. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to State Secretary Katalin Novák, State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2019-03-19-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Dear House, I would like to welcome you to the general debate on the bill on the amendments necessary for the implementation of the family protection action plan. Perhaps it is not an exaggeration to say that today's debate and the bill on family protection measures are about our future. Our future together, Hungary's future together, the children growing up in it, the families living in it. Perhaps it is not an exaggeration to say that the family protection plan can be a guarantee of the safety of families in the coming years. For what else do young people and families who have children need to be safe? Physical security, existential security, mental security. Let us say that Europe is the continent of empty cradles. That's true. Not only is the demographic situation bad in Hungary, not only are few children born in Hungary, it is not only true that every year fewer children are born than die, but it is now true for all countries of Europe. No country in Europe has a high enough desire to have children to even keep their current population. It is a national issue of fate, and the key to this national issue is the solution of young people. The Hungarian future is in the hands of Hungarian young people, and we are trying to help Hungarian young people, and that is why I welcome those who have honored us today with their presence and are here with us today in the Parliament as young people. If we are talking about the laws related to the family protection action plan, we should look back at at least until 2010. If this is a demographic crisis, we can look back until 1981, because 1981 is the year since Hungary's population has been declining every year. [[11.20]] In 1981, the demographic negative turn of Hungary and the demographic downslide are dated, and in 2010 we undertook nothing more than to change this demographic situation, so that the Hungarians can become a growing, youthful nation again. This means that we need resources, and we need to help young Hungarians create these resources. In 2010, when the Fidesz-KDNP party association received the opportunity to govern the country from the voter's confidence, this country was in a very difficult situation. We were not only in a crisis in an economic sense, but also in a political sense, both spiritually and morally. In this difficult situation, we had to find a way out of the crisis, and that was the construction that has been going on since 2010. In 2010, we focused on Hungarian families. In 2010, we decided that the Hungarian families will be at the centre of all the actions of the Orbán government, the young people who are about to have children and the families who are already raising children. This is also apparent from the fact that, compared to 2010, we have now doubled the funding for support for families. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that while in 2010 we spent HUF 960 billion in the budget to support families, this amount now exceeds HUF 2000 billion. If we look at this indicator in terms of economic performance, the country's economic strength, this is 4.8 percent of GDP. We could ask if it's too much or not enough. I mean, that's a lot, because we are at the top of the line at European level, and at European level we are spending the largest amount of money on support for families, in terms of economic performance. The average of developed countries, the OECD average, is 2.5 per cent, and we are at 4.8 per cent. But if we are talking about spending and even spending, I would rather say that this is an investment, this more than HUF 2000 billion is an investment every year, an investment in the common Hungarian future. We have not only doubled fiscal investment in the last nine years, but legislation also reflects family-oriented thinking today. The National Assembly has adopted a new Fundamental Law in which basic family values have been replaced. These family values have also been strengthened, laid down, and created a fundamental law on the protection of families, so two-thirds law protects families in Hungary. The eight years before 2010 were eight years to destroy faith in the future, trust in the future. It was also eight years to end opportunities for families, since then the family tax relief that supported the families was stopped, the home creation program, the socpol at that time, and the third year of the child was abolished, which was safe for the Hungarian mothers, because for three years a lot of people would like to stay at home with their children. I don't want to give you a long list of the sins of this period, but I could. What was most serious in these eight years was that they took away the trust in the future, because when a young couple decide to have children, they make a life-long decision. Young people are thinking not for four years, not for eight years, not for twelve, not for parliamentary cycles, making lifelong decisions when they are having children, and I would rightly like to make these lifelong decisions with knowledge of the grants. When these subsidies were driven out, eliminated, destroyed, this trust was taken from young people, and as most structures are broken down it is very easy, it is a difficult, lengthy process to rebuild. We started this construction together in 2010 and strengthened it thanks to the support of the Hungarian people. Since 2010, we have been able to build this building not only as high as we left it in 2002 or before 2002, but we have managed to build it even higher, and we have still not finished this work. If I was already talking about a demographic crisis and demographic difficulties at the beginning, I would add that the impact of this destructive eight years was also felt in a demographic sense. After eight years, the desire to have children has fallen to an unprecedented low point in Hungary by 2011, which is commonly referred to as the fertility index. This fertility rate has decreased to 1,23, which is an unprecedented depth in Hungary, even in an international comparison. We know that in order to keep as many as we are now, two young people should have at least two children. This so-called fertility rate, this childishness should reach or even exceed 2, should reach 2.1, compared to 1,23. This 1.23 fertility index has increased by more than 20 percent in recent years, and we are now approaching 1.5, reaching 1,49 last year. It is still not enough, there are still too few children born in Hungary, we can say that for our growth and for our youth, this childishness is still low, but it is already significantly higher than it was in 2010 or 2011. We want the young Hungarians to be able to realise their ideas of having children, because, dear fellow Members, when we talk about having children, about family-centred thinking, it is good for us to be aware that Hungarian young people are family-centred, child-centric and want to live in a family. If we ask a young Hungarian today what his ideas for the future are, then the answer is that nine out of ten young people want to get married and want at least two children, more than three, not two, but more than two on average, this is the planned number of children. [[11.30]] And then what do we see? Not only will the two not become two, but not even one in many cases, these childbearing realities fall short of the draft, the desires. So what's our job as government? I would say that our task is twofold, and this is the dual goal we set for us in 2010: on the one hand, to help young people to implement their childbearing plans and, on the other hand, to help families where children are born so that they can raise these children in the best possible conditions. This is why we have been working since 2010, and that is why we are grateful for the trust that we have received from the electorate in three successive elections, when we have been confirmed that we are on the right track; we have been confirmed that there is a national agreement in Hungary that families should be supported, that childbearing should be helped. Without the need for completeness, I would remind those here of some of our actions since 2010. First of all, we've returned the third year of the child. We returned to the Hungarian mothers the third year child that was taken from them between 2002 and 2010. We have given back the opportunity to create a home, and we have significantly expanded the home creation programme, we have introduced the CSOK, and we have implemented the related support. We have brought back the system of family tax relief, and not only have we brought family-type taxation back to Hungary, but we have also strengthened it, we have extended the possibility of using family tax relief for contributions, we have also helped those who have lower incomes, and we have increased the rate of family tax relief in several steps, including on 1 January of this year. We have launched an action plan to protect the workplace; we have introduced free children's meals, free textbook care, and we have launched Erzsébet camps for children who might not make it to the shore of Lake Balaton thanks to their parents' savings and investments. We have also begun to expand crèches in crèches, even remodeling the nursery system, and we have also introduced opportunities such as the remission of student loans or the release of mortgage loans for those who set up a large family. So I can say that every year since 2010, we have raised this building higher every year. Every year since 2010, we have added to family support and have not taken anything from them. Since 2010, we have been constantly expanding the opportunities that young people encounter when they are about to start a family, and also the support that children can use in Hungary. Then, at the beginning of this new parliamentary term, we launched a national consultation, as we decided that, although we have the authority from the Hungarian people in a large proportion, we would like to have another confirmation on this particular issue, in support of families. That is why we have launched a national consultation on family protection, where 11 questions have been asked. It is a pleasure that nearly 1.4 million Hungarians have taken the time to discuss the issues of national consultation at home, to fill in the questionnaire for the national consultation, to return them to us, in Hungarian, to comment on the most important issues affecting families. The Hungarian people surveyed responded in a very large proportion, so they confirmed that it is worth moving forward in support of the families, and this gave us the authority to implement the family protection action plan. This family protection action plan was announced by the Prime Minister in his Annual Speech on 10 February, and I can also say that the international response was that the Prime Minister expressed 7 specific points in his annual speech that further expand the support of families and the opportunities of families. This proposal for a 7-point family protection action plan is now the subject of this bill, and since we have the support of the Hungarian people behind us, there is the national agreement behind us on the steps to protect families, and I hope that this agreement will be reached here in Parliament, and that the Members sitting here and those who are not sitting here now, but who are working and representing Hungarian citizens in the Hungarian Parliament, will also support these proposals. What exactly is this about? Point 4 of the Family Protection Action Plan shall enter into force on 1 July 2019. This is the four points that this bill on the family protection action plan is now about, and you can already know the detailed rules, as we have published the relevant government regulations, we have made them aware of them, just in order to give them the time to prepare, so that everyone can use the new opening grants as of 1 July 2019. Let's look at the first point of the family protection action plan, which is provided for in the bill that has just been submitted. Baby shower support will be launched on 1 July 2019. From 1 July 2019 Hungarian young people can use an unprecedented amount of support, which means a loan of HUF 10 million free of interest, but can also be fully supported if they take on children. We do not hide: this baby shower support is intended for those who want to start a family; it is intended for those who still want to have children. Baby shower support can be used by couples where the wife is between 18 and 40 years of age, where one of the prospective parents, half of them working for the couple or having insurance rights, where the spouses have no criminal record, no tax debt, can claim this interest-free loan of HUF 10 million. This will be paid to them through the banks and then you can begin to repay this interest-free loan if the first child is not on the way. If the first baby is on the way, it may be requested immediately after the third month of pregnancy to suspend the repayment for three years, so in this case they do not have to start the repayment. If the first child is not yet conceived or the future mother is not pregnant with the first child, then they will start reimbursing this ten million HUF free of interest loan. A maximum of HUF 50,000 per month may be the monthly instalment, this may not be exceeded by the monthly instalment, and then, when the first child arrives, after the third month of pregnancy, you may apply for the suspension of the repayment of the loan. We will suspend the repayment for three years, and when the second child arrives, we will extend this suspension for another three years, so they will not have to pay the repayments for another three years, and we will also credit and release 30% of the remaining capital debt, so they will never have to pay it again. And if only one child comes into this family, then interest will not have to be paid for life at all, so they will have to pay the remaining amount free of interest even if they do not have a second or third child. If, on the other hand, these young couples have three children, they will be fully credited with their remaining capital debt, so they will not only suspend the repayment but will not have to repay anything at all. That is why I say that, in the case of a young married couple, where they have three children, it may happen, and in many cases it will occur that the HUF 10 million will remain entirely theirs without having to repay any of this. This is the amount of HUF 10 million that can be used freely. This is like having a free-use, quasi-personal loan, except that it does not have interest, nor does it have a loan, nor is it a credit in the event of having three children. The option lasts until the end of 2022, i.e. until 31 December 2022, and this aid can be used until then. Of course, for those who have already used it, it is still available after the date of 31 December 2022, so for them the support will continue, but the baby shower can be requested until 31 December 2022. The second and third points of the Family Protection Action Plan are related to home creation. In July 2015, we introduced the CSOK, the home-building benefit for families, the large-scale home-building programme, which simultaneously tried to respond to the economic challenge of very poor construction, and we wanted to achieve economic recovery at the same time through the boosting of the construction sector, while at the same time achieving demographic, population goals and support for families. That is why we launched the home creation programme on 1 July 2015, and I can say that since then we have been able to help 100,000 families and 400,000 Hungarians create homes only through the home creation programme. In addition to the home creation programme, we also had a VAT reduction programme, as well as a part of the home creation programme, as well as a preferential loan linked to the CSOK, the non-refundable support. [[11.40]] The possibility of receiving a discount loan was previously only for large family members and could only be used for the purchase or construction of a new property. We have changed this by extending it on 1 December and making the interest-supported loan linked to the CSOK available to the two children, and now, in the framework of the Family Protection Action Plan, the loans related to the CSOK are also made available to the real estate used. In the same amount as in new real estate, two children can claim interest-supported loans of HUF 10 million and at least three children of HUF 15 million. In this case, the interest rate should not exceed 3 per cent, so this is a very favourable loan compared to the market. The third point of the family protection action plan is also related to home creation, but in the sense that where you already have a home, where you have a loan, you have a loan attached to home creation, you will be released a certain amount of this loan when the family expands. There is a significant expansion here, because from 1 July, if the family has any real estate mortgage and the second child arrives in the family, we will credit HUF 1 million from the loan debt after the third month of pregnancy, so they will have to repay HUF 1 million less. If a third child arrives in the family, they will have to pay another HUF 4 million less out of the loan, and at the time of the arrival of each new child, HUF 1-1 million will be released from the outstanding mortgage debt. If we combine this with baby shower support and credit for the CSOK, then think, fellow Members, what a young couple today will get for their departure. You will get 10 million forints of baby shower support, which you can keep to yourselves in full without having to repay any of it. They get 10 million forints to create a home, which they also don't have to pay back. They can add a loan of HUF 15 million with a favourable interest rate, but if the second and third children come, we will even release HUF 1+4 million from it, so a young person planning three children can expect to receive HUF 25 million, which will never have to be repaid and a loan of HUF 10 million with a favourable interest rate that they will be able to repay in the next 25 years. So I think this is an opportunity for young people today that has never been in Hungary before. I trust that many young people will take advantage of this opportunity. The fourth point of the family protection action plan is an opportunity that was also not before, a car shopping program for large families. For large family members who are raising at least three children or the third child is on the way, so the third baby is coming, we give a maximum of 2.5 million HUF to buy a passenger car for at least seven people. Here we have to buy a new car, and we can give up to 50 percent of the gross purchase price as a subsidy, up to HUF 2.5 million. This option also exists until 31 December 2022 and this aid can therefore be used until then. I trust that this will also be used by those who either want to replace their old passenger cars or who dare not have a fourth child, because four children cannot fit in a traditional passenger car, they need a seven-man passenger car. That's what we're giving you support for. These are, therefore, the points of the family protection action plan on which the bill is now being tabled. I would like to mention three other points in the family protection action plan, from which one is already being implemented and the other two will start on 1 January next year. The fifth point of the family protection action plan is addressed to mothers and families with at least four children. Mothers with at least four children or even adopted children and raised these four children will be granted a total personal income tax exemption from 1 January next year. This means that mothers with at least four children in Hungary will not have to pay a penny of personal income tax for their entire lives from 1 January of next year. This is an opportunity that is not anywhere else in the world, and I can also say that there has been a great deal of news, a lot of people are watching this new step of the Hungarian government with interest, because it is not only about increasing the financial scope of these families to increase their financial prestige for these mothers, but also about the recognition in this form of our community of mothers who have given birth or raised four children and who have worked in addition. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The sixth point of the Family Protection Action Plan is about nursery care and the expansion of nursery care. This is a point that has been achieved continuously, but we have set ourselves an ambitious goal for the years to come. We have undertaken that in 2022 there will be a crèche supply system in Hungary that allows any parent who wants to give his child to a nursery or give his child to a nursery to find a solution in the form of a nursery space, and therefore does not even have to reach into his wallet or pocket. We improve nursery funding, together with a significant increase in nursery funding in recent years, and we undertake to increase the number of crèches in Hungary to 70,000. In addition, we will continue to increase the wages and remuneration of daycare workers, which has already taken place in previous steps, but we will not stop on this path either. Finally, I would like to give you two thoughts on the seventh point of the Family Protection Action Plan, and I do not say that from its last point, because the Family Protection Action Plan is not a closed list, this list will continue to be extended in the future. You can be sure that we will have further proposals, and we will also have family-supporting decisions in the future that Hungarian young people and families raising children can expect. Therefore, the seventh point of the Family Protection Action Plan will also be implemented from 1 January 2020; this is the Grandparent's Gyed. Grandparent gyed will be an opportunity, whether it is a child or a child, which has not been in Hungary yet, and it is for families where parents work and grandparents would like to be more active in raising grandchildren. Grandparents who are not yet retired, so they have an active employment relationship, but they would be happy to go with grandchildren, so that parents require this, and parents transfer this right, this support to grandparents. So, as of January 1st next year, there will probably be more of them as grandmothers or grandpas at home with grandchildren. They can take this opportunity in parallel even after several grandchildren, so if more grandchildren are raised by grandparents, and by reference they will be fair or fair, multiple children or multiple children will be entitled to the same thing. It is true that they cannot work for eight hours, so it is expected that grandchildren will actually be dealt with during this period or the grandson will be dealt with during this period. This grandparent child, I think, will also help us to strengthen relations between grandparents and grandchildren again, because it is an experience for a small child to know his grandparents not only closely, but also to have daily experience of being with the Grandparent generation, grandparents, grandmothers, or grandfathers, which can mean a lifelong journey for a small child. So seven points in the Family Protection Action Plan contain these options. Four of these will enter into force on 1 July 2019 if the bill is adopted by the Parliament. I know that the majority of the governing parties are enough to pass this bill, but I would now turn to opposition representatives. I would ask you to put aside your current party policy interests, put them aside. [[Lajos Rig and Daniel Z. Carpathian intervene.]] the aspects that I think are unfairly brought here when it comes to the future of families, to the support of families. Don't focus on minute, momentary interests, but look to the future. Recognize your responsibility to represent the Hungarian people who consider support for families to be key to our future as Members of Parliament. That is why I would also ask you to support the bill on the protection of families, which I have just tabled, and, of course, that is what I am asking of my fellow members who are pro-government. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-19-32	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Welcome. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2019-03-19-33	I'd like to ask you who will speak Hungarian here in a hundred years. He asks the question on Tamás Cseh's album Front Crossing. Ladies and gentlemen, That's the basic question. That is what we are talking about today in the walls of Parliament. The next bill of the family protection action plan in front of them serves the purpose of speaking Hungarian here in the Carpathian Basin in a hundred years' time. [[11.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, All of Europe faces the challenge of fewer and fewer children being born. There are governments in Europe that respond to or respond to these challenges through the introduction of masses of different cultures. However, we Hungarians see that strengthening families and supporting childbearing is a good response to population loss. We imagine Hungary's future not with immigrants, but with Hungarian children. On these crucial issues, the Orbán government looked forward to the opinion of the people within the framework of national consultation. The national consultation is not new, as this has already been done. This year's national consultation in 2018 was already the eighth in this row. Allow me to quote some of these questions and the proportion of responses to them. Do you agree that population loss should be addressed not by immigration, but by stronger support for families? 99.2 percent of respondents replied yes. Then, do you agree that the new family support programmes should continue to be linked to work? 97.52 percent of respondents replied yes. Do you agree that young couples should be given support to start their own lives? 98.2 percent of respondents replied yes. Finally, let me ask you one more question: do you agree that more support should be given in case of multiple children? Here 96 percent of respondents replied yes. The proposal before us now concerns four points in the Family Protection Action Plan, proposals for adoption of these measures from 1 July 2019. The first is baby shower support. Every married couple between 18 and 40 years old, and at least one of them has three years of insurance law, can apply for an interest-free, free-use loan of up to HUF 10 million and can receive it in bank branches. The loan's repayment is up to HUF 50,000 a month. If at least one child is born into the family within five years, the instalments shall not be paid for three years and shall be eligible for interest-free repayment for the entire term. As Secretary of State said, if the second child is born, the repayment will be suspended for another three years, and 30% of the debt will be released, and if the third child arrives or is on the way, then the entire remaining debt will be released. In the event of the adoption of this law, the baby shower allowance shall enter into force on 1 July 2019. We've had a number of questions, such as baby shower support. Such a question is whether you can come up with a baby shower grant that does not have to be repaid. Yes, if a couple, where the mother had spent 12 weeks of pregnancy, took up the baby shower support, and within three years their second child was born, and within another three years the third, they used the baby shower support without having to pay a penny back. It was also a question that only those who live in their first marriage could receive the support. Here is our answer: If the couple do not yet have children, it does not matter which marriage they marry. However, if a member of the couple already has a child, at least one of the spouses must have their first marriage. A previous marriage that has ceased due to widowhood is not a first marriage in this form of support. Let's look at the next point, the extension of the interest-supported housing loan to the used apartment customers. A discount of 10 million HUF for two children and 15 million HUF for three children will be available for the purchase of a flat with a maximum interest rate of 3 per cent in addition to CSOK. The loan can also be obtained by those concerned, like the CSOK, in the event of a pre-emption. A further change, as the Secretary of State said, is to abolish the HUF 35 million threshold for used apartments. It is also new that, while the foundations of an old house had to be broken down in order to qualify as a new house, from July this condition will cease. The third point that we need to talk about in the context of the proposed legislation is the expansion of childbearing aid for mortgage loans. In the case of third or additional children, the possibility of crediting HUF 1-1 million for housing loans will be extended to families with one child and HUF 1 million for the birth of the third child, and HUF 1-1 million for further births. This is also expected to be implemented on 1 July 2019. There's been some questions here. Let me give you an example: let us look at the amount of support for a family to create a home, if they take up two or three or more children, use the CSOK, and purchase a mortgage and a second-hand apartment. No, in this case, a family with a second child may actually be entitled to HUF 2.4 million in non-refundable loans and HUF 9 million in preferential loans, and a family with a third child could be entitled to HUF 6.2 million in non-refundable loans and HUF 11 million in reduced loans. A family with a third child and a fourth child can calculate with a non-refundable grant of HUF 6 million 750 thousand and a discount loan of HUF 11 million. Let's see how much support a family gets if they also use all the support they can get, that is, CSOK, interest-supported loans, mortgage loans, and baby shower support, and they plan to have three children. In this case, if a couple plans three children, they will receive 10 million HUF of baby shower support and 10 million HUF of CSOK, for which they will require a 15 million HUF interest-supported loan, they will receive a grant of HUF 25 million if the planned children are born, because at the time of the birth of the third child they will not have to repay the baby shower allowance at all, and from the interest-supported loan they will no longer have to repay HUF 5 million, they will only have to pay the remaining HUF 10 million out of the 15 million loan, and they will also have to pay the remuneration much better than the market. Single-parent families may also claim the CSOK, the interest-supported loan and the support for mortgage loans, and take advantage of this possibility. In the fourth point, let's talk about the car shopping program for large families. From 1 July, if Parliament adopts the bill before it, families with three or more children can receive HUF 2.5 million in support of the purchase of a new passenger car for at least seven persons. The amount of this aid which may be claimed by 31 December 2022 may amount to a maximum of half of the gross purchase price of the car. It was not a question of paying 2.5 million forints in advance, but it will be referred directly to the trader in the Treasury. There's no limit to the price of the car, by the way. One- and two-parent families may also claim children who qualify for family allowances, in the case of a third child the 12th week of pregnancy, for three months, is considered eligible. [[12.00]] There was also one question: can you buy the car only if the total purchase price is paid? The answer is that no, you can buy a car with a closed-ended lease or even a car loan. In this case, a family member who is entitled to a family allowance for at least three children is considered to be a large family member in the car shopping program of large families. Can single - parent families request this form of support? Yeah, you can claim it. Ladies and gentlemen, Since 2010, the Hungarian Parliament has adopted a lot of changes to the law on family support, and we have adopted a lot of amendments to the law that support children's commitment. Katalin Novák, State Secretary, has been listening for a few minutes to the list of measures adopted by the Hungarian Parliament to protect families, to support and encourage childbearing. Socialists and DKs have not supported measures to help families in recent years, such as the introduction of a family tax system, the further increase in the family tax relief of two children, the extra ged, the three-year re-establishing of the family home programme and the introduction of the family home-building programme. In fact, not only did they not support them, but they also attacked the national consultation on family protection, and some Members even went to the point of openly tearing up the consultation sheet, while others openly said that they saw Hungary's future in migrants and not in support of Hungarian families. [[Zsolt Gréczy: This is what Viktor Orbán said in 2001. Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal before us is based on national consultation, with its results in mind. Here, too, the opposition will have the opportunity to decide whether to finally side with the Hungarian families. The vast majority of people support family protection measures, as I have confirmed by the numbers quoted above. There is a national unity in Hungary on support for families. I ask for the support of the proposal. Let's make Hungary a family-friendly country. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-19-34	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Before I give the floor to the lead speaker of Jobbik, let me welcome the students and educators of the Ady Endre-Bay Zoltán High School and College, who came from Sarkad, and the students and teachers of the Zrínyi Miklós High School and Secondary School, and they are from Szigetvár. Welcome, I'm glad you're here. Now, Honourable Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Karpát, he is the lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2019-03-19-35	Mr President, Dear House, I welcome the Hungarian future in the gallery myself. Finally, we are not talking about population issues in front of three or four pro-government representatives. In the interests of the Hungarian future, I would like to give some shade to the picture that Madam Secretary of State said here in her political leadership, and, on the other hand, I would like to give our support to the programme points that truly serve the Hungarian future and the entire Hungarian society, as this is evident in respect of all good Members, should and should be clear. At the same time, although I do not want to give advice to Mrs Secretary of State, I respect the ladies, I would not wish to make any unsolicited proposals, but if they really are trying to reach consensus on certain programming points in this House, then it might be worth putting the teaching and a little bit of a big talk in the background, now conducting a professional debate, and then everyone in the field of politics, in TV studios and newspapers will be able to say and say their political position. I would just like to urge all my pro-government fellow Members not to paint this picture, not more gorgeous, but even more acceptable than it really is. After all, we are in the middle of a demographic winter, as my friend Ander Balázs used to say, in a sinking Atlantis, and if we look at the two most important indicators, the number of live births and the total fertility rate, then I have to tell you that the situation in terms of the number of live births is terrible, Hungary is at a historic low point, and in recent times it has only decreased, Madam Secretary of State, the number of live births. The full rate of fertility is indisputable, and by the way, I think it's a huge achievement to finally move a few tenths up from the historical low point, so to reach it from around 1.2, a little over 1.5, that's a historical achievement. At the same time, at the height of 2015-16, one of the KSH measurements showed that there was a moment when we even reached 1,53, but since then, unfortunately, two years have passed. What happened a year and a half ago? It's an amazing record of population loss. In 2017, the natural weight loss again cost more than 40,000, and the fertility index slipped back to around 1.49, crawled, stabilized there, and remained essentially there to this day according to the last measurements. It wouldn't be a problem for itself, but it's worth looking at future trends. I very much hope that this package before us will be able to raise this indicator to, say, 1.65 heights. The leading demographers of the KSH consider this to be more or less realistic and realistic. If this 1.65 comes out of this package, which I call the foamed one, then I think it's an excellent achievement that everyone should welcome. Yes! Let us not pretend that the disaster is not brutal, and let us not pretend that this government is doing everything the budgetary frameworks allow and fit into the toolbox. This government, in a completely pointless way, ignores solutions that would have a positive impact on population development and that would slow emigration at a given time. I have to tell you that we have had a lot of discussions about what keeps young Hungarians at home, how to create a safe climate so that the desire to have children can rise up a little. I see three neural points where the government could intervene, but it didn't. So, in addition to the 7 points, we have submitted a further 5 points and we will be discussing a 12-point package here in Parliament, if Fidesz agrees, because if the proposals on the same issues are cancelled at committee stage, then at least the credibility of the government will be questioned. What I see first: how to set decent demographic goals, if this government is unable to even recognize the problem of rent prices in Hungary, don't give it to God to handle it? How can you talk about a predictable home creation program if you have to pay rents above HUF 150,000 in Budapest and the metropolitan city? Madam Secretary, this is an existing market process. What do you think of this? Why did this situation develop? Why have you been letting this stand for nine years? I'll give you an example: in Airbnb's overseas cities, there were 2,500 properties from the rental market, and the rents were gone. In Hungary, the same process took out more than 3,000 properties from the rental market, and the government waited over half a decade with its regulatory appearance in this quoted market and did not intervene. Right now, I'm telling you that supply-side scarcity is raising housing costs, rents. Madam State Secretary, most of my fellow Members may have own property, but this is not the typical Hungarian living situation. If you look at the average salary according to KSH and look at the average level of housing costs, you will find that a typical young Hungarian couple in a living situation is unable to obtain a home of their own. That is why we need a rent-apartment programme that we put on this table in 2010. Since 2010, even the negotiation of the rental program has been sabotaged by this government, because it says who knows what kind of research it is based on, that Hungarian people prefer independent property, of course, we all prefer to have ownership of something rather than to have a rental relationship, and therefore the lease segment is practically independent, it doesn't matter. Yesterday, the Prime Minister also gave a perfectly unacceptable reply, saying that they are in the government and opposition because the government is a private ownershipist and the opposition is also pushing for a rental segment. This shows not only an unprofessional but extremely harmful way of thinking, since complete Hungarian social groups are excluded from opportunities. [[12.10]] And I would also like to point out to you, Madam Secretary, that while the number of evictions in Hungary is only over 10,000 in recent years, while this government has made a deal with the EBRD and the Banking Association, it has betrayed the issue of foreign exchange credentials and has allowed that robbing mechanism to continue to work, which has made hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families abducted in a completely pointless way, let us not be surprised if the desired children in these families are often not born. And this is not a political issue, Madam Secretary, it is a simple mathematical and professional question, that if someone took credit at HUF 155 at the rate of exchange, then why would they exchange it for him at a market rate in a settlement. Why couldn't you, according to Jobbik's proposal, redeem these so-called loans at the rate of admission, get as many families out of this trouble as possible? Thousands of evictions are still taking place in families where the planned, desired child sacrifice has been discussed, and this has not happened. And this is on the indicators, Madam Secretary, you can see that. What has happened in Hungary, I repeat, I find it very helpful to look at the surrounding countries in terms of fertility rates. And I'm working on the data from the Statistical Office you referred to, so I'm working on the data sets mentioned in your expoze when I'm talking about data right now. On the basis of a regional comparison, it can be said that the fertility rate has decreased to almost 1.3 of all former socialist countries; in Hungary, due to the impact of balliberal carpet bombing and economic carpet bombing, it is even deeper. You can't get the elements and results of the Bokros package out of this circle, can you? But we have to tell you... [[Dr. Winner Vinnai: Our allies are either good or nothing!]] Everyone can press a button instead of a fellow Member, [[Dr. András Aradski: Nana! Intercoms from the pro-government benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] a fair professional debate can also be held. I have to say that in all cases the fertility index has decreased to 1.3, and then in the former socialist countries it started as an increase, except in Hungary. In Hungary, we had to wait for this until about 2011. There were reasons for this, too, and it is possible to spend the past eight years, but now we have to talk about the past eight years, each course has its own economic policy-type crimes that have slowed down the improvement of fertility indicators in Hungary. After 2011, we see that the demographer's profession has been replaced, according to which the slow rise previously observed in the countries of the region has finally been observed in Hungary. Fortunately, this has happened, and we have reached about 1.5, but Madam Secretary of State has rightly noted that it is pointless to talk about keeping our numbers in 2.1. Therefore, I would be very interested in the government's vision: what kind of Hungary do you want, what number of Hungary do you imagine, say, in 2050? After all, from a demographic point of view, three-year, five-year models are incomprehensible, and this is a decades-old profession. I would like to see the vision that appeared in the front of Fidesz, even though it was often not true, the vision of civil Hungary was there. Then came the vision of reducing costs, which did not achieve world market developments at all, so much more space would have been possible, but at least some kind of world vision and idea was there. Then came the fight against migration. They are completely in agreement with the person who says that in Hungary the population growth must be started from internal resources and by no means introduced. But then how is it, my fellow members of the Government, that in recent years 86 thousand people have been admitted to Hungary? And this includes not only the residents and their family members, but also the protected persons and every person with immigrant status in Hungary who, in my opinion, would not necessarily be here. And I got some of the guest workers here, of course. I would also like to ask you and ask you for a specific answer, either from a secretary of state or from a Member of the Council who is familiar with the issue of the CSOK, how you were able to think that people with emigrated status could use the CSOK. How is it that if anyone on your phone now uses Google to search for the list of necessary documents, then the current bank notice, now out there, sees the list of documents to be provided by an immigrant in order to use the CSOK. How's that? I support your rhetoric on this issue, but then do this in the realm of reality. Well, you can't fight migration if the largest organized resettlement campaign is being conducted by the current government of Hungary! But I would like to turn back to the original subject, because everything is connected with everything, but there is still a package before us, which I do not want to appreciate from a codification point of view, because the detailed rules do not come out at all, and I consider this a political package. What we need to see is that there are some amazing issues left out, not only the rental program, not only a large part of the social group of young Hungarians, which is not capable of buying separate homes, creating homes, but also of the whole family support system. Someone please answer me, please, why inflation monitoring is not achieved at least in the case of family support methods and forms that have been frozen for ten years. How could the government of support for families have been frozen for a good decade and have not allowed them to move? One of our amendments points precisely to the fact that this system should be at least a follower of inflation. Then the issue of family tax relief raises very serious questions: what about those two children, and what can be expected of them, for whom, by 2019, we can show a minimum increase, but what happens from 2020? Is the family tax relief for two children freezing? So how can you imagine supporting families in a system where certain elements otherwise grow linearly and other elements freeze? How does the whole transparent system come out of this? And exactly, she said the key, Secretary of State, when she evaluated the activities of the Balliberal governments, and said that the taking away of faith in the future was the greatest damage and damage that could be done. That's what I'm saying, the last two or eight years. I say that the majority of young Hungarians and those who vote on their feet and move out of this country under duress leave very often because they do not trust in the future or pay their payments from their higher wages there. So, in this system, there are ballasts that we should resolve here in Parliament, because we see that there is a clear need for intervention in order to improve population indicators. And I would really like to hear what the government's vision is, how many millions of people in Hungary imagine that it wishes to allow many young Hungarians to stay home, not only in the rental segment. Do you have, let us say, a concept of wage catch-up, because it is absolutely clear and we agree with my fellow members of the Government on this, if the wage difference between the West and the East is this large, then the human resources-absorption effect on young Hungarians will continue to prevail. But it is not enough that, fortunately, in the professions affected by the shortage of labour in Hungary, the market beats wages higher, but the Government of Hungary signs strategic agreements with multi-company companies where it does not conclude a slow pay gap. Madam State Secretary, I expect you to at least increase wages in these segments at a level consistent with the slow improvement in productivity indicators. And if you sign a strategic contract, it should include that. This is an expectation for you in the interests of Hungarian workers. And while the slave law and other completely unnecessary over-foaming undermines young Hungarians, I have to say that this emigration indicators have a price and a price. In the end, demographic indicators are also negatively affected. I and the faction, which sits behind my back, are willing to set aside individual policy and other aspects for the Hungarian future. We will be involved in a purely professional debate at any time, so I would like to ask everyone to try to discuss these areas with as little qualification as possible and with as many professional arguments as possible. But I would ask you to begin this substantive discussion at least in the subjects I have referred to you. They have received specific questions, we do not ourselves expect the concrete answers, but the crowd of the voters behind us and the Hungarian future in particular. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2019-03-19-36	Thank you very much. Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, lead speaker of the KDNP. Here you go.
u2019-03-19-37	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, If you can put it this way, we are here and discussing one of the most important legislative proposals in the 2018-2022 cycle, and we are discussing issues that fundamentally affect Hungary's future. I think that the current bill also fits into the post-family-friendly turnaround and series of measures that the Fidesz-KDNP government has implemented so far. We all feel the weight of this, and we all feel the importance of the family protection action plan that is now in front of us. As Madam Secretary of State has already said, we are now discussing the four measures that will enter into force from 1 July, the detailed rules of which are already public, since the government has worked in this way ahead and everyone in the Hungarian Gazette can already know the details of this. [[12.20]] We can see from the fact that, for example, the prominent representatives of the Dialogue faction are all sitting here and talking to them. But they are not very represented, and a piece of the Socialist faction is sitting in this extremely important debate. How did we get to this point that we can now negotiate this bill? We see that, and this has already been said by the Secretary of State and the speakers before me, that Europe is facing ageing problems, that it is suffering from population problems, and that the leaders, politicians and professionals of the Member States are constantly working on how to address this problem in some way, to put it in the right direction. So far, there have been two kinds of solutions within the European Union, this is what we see now, as there is a regular exchange of views with the EU Member States, and we see their aspirations on a regular basis. We see that one of the ways of medicine, one of the directions is the reception and resettlement of immigrants in almost unlimited numbers. They call it labour market management. We distance ourselves from talking about families and children in this way. But this is one of the ways that many countries are clearly applying and using. The other way is to support families, to support the birth and rearing of children. I am very happy and proud that Hungary has chosen this path, and Hungary wants to continue on this path and achieve as many and better results as possible. KDNP has always supported communities, and we look to the family as the smallest community in society, which must be protected, supported and helped. We think that family as a community is the foundation of the future, the key to the future. We view the family as a value-making, value-bearing community. This was not always the case, since between 2002 and 2010 the primary targets of the austerity of the socialist, Gyurcsányist government were families raising children. There have been unfortunate events such as family tax relief and the abolition of tax systems. They started with families with one and two children. It decreased from three years to two years, followed by the freezing of home-creation programmes and the abolition of them, and the pursuit of foreign exchange loans for families. That is why there was a great need, a pressing need for the family-friendly turnaround that took place in 2010. What is even sadder is that before 2010, the socialists did this, because they have not been able to put their names, their votes in favour of family-friendly measures and family policy measures. I think that at the beginning of their speeches, at the beginning of the pro-Gyurcsány and socialist speeches, we will surely hear an apology that they owe not to us, but to Hungarian families because they have failed Hungarian families in these eight years and the eight years before that. In addition to family support, the change in public thinking is very important: in the last eight to nine years, the development of family-friendly public thinking, the promotion of family-friendly public thinking, campaigns, institutions, publications and programmes have managed to achieve a small social shift. I think we can call it that. I'd just like to say four numbers here. Marriages have increased by nearly 40 percent, divorces have decreased by 18 percent, fertility rates have increased, more people have talked about this before me, and the number of abortions has decreased by 28 percent. I think this shows that we are not only talking about financial support before us, but also about moral, spiritual, public thought support. This includes the fact that the government has now spent 10 billion forints on the development of family-friendly obstetrics, and that these programs have affected hundreds of thousands of families that they have been able to reach and children have participated in. And don't forget the free textbook and free children's meals. It is very important that the bill before us was not born in a narrow office, let us say, in the office of the Secretary of State, that he called in two or three experts, and they worked together to figure out what this package looks like, but this package was born by asking the Hungarian people. We have asked Hungarian people, as has been the case with all major, important decisions, in the national consultation. I am sad to note that the Hungarian people here, too, have experienced only disrespect from the Balliberal opposition, as, for example, Congresswoman Bangóné Borbély Ildikó shamed the will and intention of the nearly 1.5 million people who ripped up the consultation sheet, who took the trouble, took the time to fill in the time to think about it and send this questionnaire back. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I would do it again, believe me.]] This was the basis for the decisions that the government has taken and which are waiting for us here in Parliament on the related bill. That is why I ask everyone to speak to families, parents and children who have children only in the voice of respect, because the insults when, for example, opposition politicians share the shameful mockery of joke parties on their social media pages, or when they speak of them in a manner that is inappropriate, they violate precisely those in whom the Hungarian future is there and on whom we base the Hungarian future. We cannot go without saying that family policy results and family policy measures would not have been possible if there were no strong and stable economy. It is very important that we can have ambitious plans if, with a stable budget, recovery from bankruptcy and the country's growth path, we did not have these opportunities if we did not have so many, because we know that there are 700 thousand more people working than in 2010. We also know that the socialists have made 1 million people unemployed. The performance of these Hungarian people is also important for us to be able to make such decisions now, so that the country can have the opportunity to make such decisions. Because if there wasn't enough budget coverage, if the economy weren't strong enough, the big plans wouldn't be worth anything if there wasn't enough funding. I would just like to respond with one sentence to my better fellow Member, with whom we usually start the debate by saying that he always expects the tone of fairness and wants a professional debate. I always agree with that very much, but then he himself does not respect it first when he talks about my fellow Member's thumping, the unacceptable style of the Prime Minister and comes to us about all kinds of political attacks that are not related to the subject at all. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Why can't the Prime Minister be criticized?]] So it is also a matter of reciprocity, my fellow Member, because my fellow Member expects us to be fair, we should have a professional debate, but he is free to eat us on all kinds of political matters. We don't think that's right. The four points that we are discussing now have already been expressed by those who spoke before me. I think it is very important to highlight how it fits into the policy that we started, how it fits into the policy that we had to break up with in 2010 and how it fits into European trends, into the European environment. What we need to see is that Hungary is the one that spends most on family support in the European Union in proportion to GDP. I think it is a very remarkable figure, because if we consider that in 2010 the amount spent by the Socialist Government on families was around HUF 1000 billion, and we see that this year, especially with the action plan announced now, it will well exceed 2000 billion, we see that this is a more than double increase in eight to nine years. It is very, very important that this brings us to the forefront of Europe, that we have broken off by trying to spend those empty promises that the socialists have made, and then they have tried to finance them on credit, from real performance, from the country's capacity and actually to the families. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát mentioned the rental program several times. But, my fellow Member, we are here precisely because we are listening to the voice of the Hungarian people, and the Hungarian people have clearly stated on several occasions, in several researches and in the national consultation that Hungarian people want property. You tried to bring that up, too, but then you tried to dodge that data. Our task is that if the Hungarian people want this, if the Hungarian people want their home to be their property, then we must help them with programmes. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Is that what everyone wants, but what doesn't have the money to do?]] That's what we need to help with different measures, not go in a completely different direction. I think that in Western Europe we are faced with very large walls when we treat the issue of family support as taboo, when there are very few places where we can openly ask these questions about family support and encouraging childbearing. There are very few places where this is not immediately declared politically incorrect. That is why it is important that we express our views openly, decisively and not intimidated in these matters, not only at home, but also in Western Europe. [[12.30]] I am pleased when my better fellow Member said that there are programmes in the series of measures and in the action plan that he or Jobbik can support. I ask him to use his current close acquaintance in order to convince the Balliberal parties that this is also an important and supportive set of measures. Despite the fact that we always trust that when a family policy measure comes before Parliament, the Balliberal opposition will finally support this in some way, we have always had to be disappointed. But here's another opportunity for socialist and Gyurcsányist representatives to decide whether they want to join the Hungarian families or not. Thank you very much. KDNP supports the proposal. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-19-38	Dear Parliament, The main speaker of the group of the MSZP, Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, will now be next. Here you go.
u2019-03-19-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Then I'll start with an apology. I'd like to apologize to these children on your behalf. From children under 18 who are asked in Hungary, 80 percent say that they want to leave their country. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Unfortunately, it is true.]] And that's because of us. And I want to apologize to these kids that we can't stop them from doing this right now. And, you know, I listened: Madam Secretary asked us to look inside ourselves, to be Members and to support this proposal. And that so far, the opposition has not been willing to support any proposal in the last nine years to help children or families. Yeah, because it's always said it's in salad laws or laws that might support one law, but we have to reject ten others. Many numbers were also mentioned in the head of the Secretary of State, but interestingly, she only said certain numbers and certain periods. Then let's start with the birth of a child. I will say on purpose, say, from 2001, when Fidesz-KDNP was a former government: 97 047 children were born in Hungary. In 2009, after the crisis, it was already felt: 96 442 children. In the meantime, there was usually little movement, between 96 and 97 thousand children's births. She also pointed out that when we looked at 70 years, the birth rate was one of the worst indicators: 88 049 children were born in Hungary. In 2010, the indicators were slightly improved: 91 577 children were born, then in 2018, Secretary of State, the third worst indicator was born: 89 800 children. The birth number went below 90,000 again. [[Zsolt Gréczy: We do not govern!]] House building has also been mentioned. We know very well that one of the foundations of having children is the existence of apartments. We also know that we all know that about 40,000 new apartments should be built in Hungary in order to keep the housing stock at the level. Once again, Madam Secretary, you have said a lot about the period before 2010 that we have destroyed everything. I have also written down the crimes committed by the Socialist Government of Gyurcsány, how it turned out. Then allow me some numbers, Madam Secretary. In 2001 28 054 apartments were built in Hungary. In 2002 there was an improvement, 31 511 apartments were built. In 2005, there was no longer a Fidesz-KDNP government, 41,084 apartments were built in Hungary. In 2006, 33 864, and even in 2009, after the crisis, 31 994 apartments were built in Hungary. In 2012, after the Fidesz came to power, 10 560 apartments were built in Hungary,, in 14 8358, in 2015 7612 were never so few apartments were built in Hungary as in 15, in 17 we managed to improve a little bit, 14,389, and in the last year almost reached 18 thousand. The only reason I wanted to list this is because these are the data of the HCSO, and I hope you won't say that I falsified the data. And let me read you another set of data, Madam Secretary, which is very important. We know very well that every sixth Hungarian child is born abroad, both of us and you. We also know that every 10 Hungarian women of childbearing age are no longer in Hungary, but abroad. And some very important series of data, because when I have heard this package of measures, I can speak frankly and speak on behalf of my fellow Members, but I think that on behalf of all my opposition fellow Members, if we are talking about helping families and how children should be supported in Hungary, the Hungarian families, we can agree that after nine years of governance, they should really put a good programme on the table and we will support it. Just do something! So I don't have to list these numbers. Then I would say the proportion of women without children by age group, Madam Secretary. If we look at the 15-19-year-old age group, you're the one who issued it, they've just sent this little publication to all the Members. [[He's showing it to me.]] I'll read it from there. In the 15-19-year-old population, if you look at it, 96.8 percent were childless in 2001, 97 percent in 2010 and 96.4 percent in 2018, there is little movement in this age group. For 20-24-year-olds, let's say 78,6 percent were childless in 2001 and 86.6 percent in 11 and there is a slight improvement in 18, 85.6 percent. But now comes the rough series: in the 25-29-year-old population in 2001, 44.2 percent of these women were childless; in 2010, just to say that when we were still in government, 64.9 percent; in 2018, I say, from 44 percent in 2001, 70.5 percent of them are childless. In 2001 17.9 percent of the population aged 30-34 were childless, 33,6 percent in 2010 and 44.8 percent in 18. In 2001 9.8 percent of the 35-39-year-olds, 16.5 percent in 10, and 25.7 percent in 2018 are childless. In the 40-44-year-old population, because I wouldn't give up on women over 40; you gave up on this age group a long time ago in 2001, 7.9% were childless, 10.3% in 2010 and 17.2 percent in 2018. We are talking about one of the most serious problems. And yesterday, in my speech before the agenda, I presented in broad terms the programme that the Hungarian Socialist Party submitted yesterday, and I would ask the Secretary of State and the representatives of the Fidesz-KDNP that we only put into our programme the measures that were left out of yours to support each other. We support your programme, which affects a very narrow layer, and then we put forward a proposal, but I think it will tell both DK and P and the other opposition parties, we have submitted packages that they have been unwilling to acknowledge for years. We've been filing these measures for years, and you're sweeping them off the table. We have built this proposal around three groups, and I will not fit into the time, but I would like to say it completely. The individual package, the first point, is to support childbearing and to coordinate child rearing and employment. [[12.40]] The second group is to support childcare, care for close relatives and the third group to ensure the safety of housing. We talk a lot about what indicators we can measure the family support of a government. I think that we opposition or pro-government politicians can talk about it, and I looked at the faces of young people who were sitting on the pulpit, and I think the third group is coming now, and if I saw correctly, in the middle group there were only girls, and I also watched the face of the secretary of state. He tried to talk to these kids, young people, and I didn't see the joy in their faces. [[Delight and murmur in the pro-government benches. Katalin Novak: This is really beneath criticism! That's the bottom of it! Interviews from Fidesz: They don't have the opportunity to express their views! Nacsa Lőrinc: We still need statistics! Read more stats.]] You know, Madam Secretary, the success of a government will always be screened by the future generation. You can laugh at me, you can laugh at me, you know, those young people, those 18-year-olds, those twenty-somethings, they know very well that it won't be enough to get ten million forints, not enough to give them a promise. You know, we need a complete family support system. They also need to see that their future will be safe. You talked about safety, too. It requires a good family support system, a good health system, a good social care system, and an economy where young people will be able to send a message that it will be worth working in Hungary. Madam State Secretary also said that the socialist government abolished the family tax reduction. As a first step, you abolished the minimum wage exemption. Today in Hungary, if someone earns 2 million HUF, they still tax 15%, but if they earn the minimum wage or are so announced, they still pay 15 percent. We find it very unfair! I think that if we are talking about what we can offer these young people, then you adopted a law last December, and this was again not mentioned in Parliament's walls, where the majority of Hungarian workers are essentially exposed to slavery. We've talked a lot about this in the last few months. You say that today, mothers who have to have or should have children can freely work overtime for 400 hours a year. This should have been the first step, Madam Secretary, to stand up to the pulpit and say that it is initiating the withdrawal, abolition of this law or the abolition of the administrative slave law. You should have stood up and said you're taking the initiative, Madam Secretary. Or Madam Secretary of State did not mention the tragic health situation we are experiencing today in every area of the country. In his speech before the agenda, Mr Lajos Korózs read only the articles and articles that have been published in the Hungarian media in the last quarter. I think that when we talk about raising children, it's very important to me, the very first supply system that a family and child encounters is the pediatric system outside the hospital after they've been born and the protective women's network. We know very well, last week it was full of Hungarian media, that 50 percent of pediatricians in Hungary today were 60 years old and one fifth was 70 years old. Today we can talk about how the pediatric system could collapse at any time. But we can also talk about the protective system, which was created to help these young mothers, families, so that they can wait for the child, receive what health care they can receive, how they can... It's the first supply system we've come into contact with. I haven't heard a word of it from you. That is why, in my next 15-minute speech, I will present to you exactly, point by point, the three groups around which we placed 8-8 points from the Hungarian Socialist Party, how we could actually help all Hungarian families in Hungary, regardless of the financial situation, regardless of whether they are working or not, regardless of how many children they raise. One more thought, Madam Secretary, because I have one minute: there is not one letter in this programme about the nearly 200,000 couples who are struggling with infertility. One of the greatest potential could be in these couples. You basically destroyed the support system last year. Right, I know you're gonna tell me how much money plus 5 billion forints they put in fertility treatments. Madam Secretary, fewer children were born last year. You should listen to the profession sometime. Professor Kaali said again that what you were doing didn't work out. Once again, they sought to destroy and destroy a well-functioning system because some interest groups wanted you to do so. I think that I will list these points separately, and then I will make a gesture to the Secretary of State: support each other. I want you to support what we've given you. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] 24 points that actually want to help all Hungarian families. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-03-19-40	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Before we go any further in this debate, allow me, on your behalf, to welcome the students and educators of Kós Károly School of Arts and Arts. They're from Debrecen. I'm glad you're here. Good afternoon. Now, on behalf of the Democratic Coalition Group, Mr Zsolt Gréczy will be the first to be the lead speaker. Here you go.
u2019-03-19-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The family protection package submitted by the Orbán government is actually a confession, admitting that what they have done for the Hungarian families in the last nine years was little, that was insufficient, and that the route was already wrong. Perhaps the direction is not what Viktor Orbán talked about in 2001. You are the ones who accuse us of being the ones who want to fill this country with migrants. 8 July 2001, Viktor Orbán:, We need millions of immigrants to be admitted to the country so that economic growth can be maintained in the next five years. Orbán said in 2001 that Viktor Orbán wants to receive millions of migrants; not the Gyurcsány government, but the Orbán government. The problem is that you mostly leave the man out of this whole package, the man who doesn't necessarily think about having a child, that he will now have one more seat in the car, and not a child that you give him a preferential loan, and if we have another one, we will have one more, but we simply need calm conditions in a country. A calm relationship that allows families to grow spiritually and financially, which does not put Hungarian families in a position to decide whether to have children, for example, that there is a pediatrician in Hungary. When a young Hungarian couple read in the press that the emergency infant ward of the Honvéd Hospital is closing, you won't give birth to that woman even if you promise 10 million forints, because you will see that there will be no one who will give the vaccine to your child. Pediatricians have disappeared in this country. The problem you've created in the last 8-9 years is extremely serious. For example, we are there, as my Socialist fellow Member has just said, that 50 percent of the young Hungarians who are about to graduate want to leave the country, but not by leaving and then coming home with university knowledge as a well-educated person and using it here; no, whoosh, they want to leave this country and they don't want to live here anymore. This is all the result of your governance, because they have created relations in this country, war relations that virtually prevent young Hungarians from staying at home and prospering at home. I am extremely disappointed at a time when you are looking at the eight years, the eight years between 2002 and 2010, with a sharp criticism, while, by the way, the baby bond introduced by the Gyurcsány government is also used in a happy way, and there is still a baby bond. [[12.50]] Madam Secretary of State, after she was a lady, I am therefore using a euphemistic expression in her speech when she said that the Orbán government had introduced a school meal for children in need, which was introduced by the Medgyessy government, and that the Gyurcsány and then the Bajnai government also maintained this natural service for us as well. [[Nacsa Lawrence: 10 percent...]] 600 thousand Hungarians left the country, 600 thousand Hungarians left the country, and the number of Hungarians that young people have learned about 1956: in 1956 200 thousand Hungarians left the country, only then the Russians came in, and now three times the Russians have left. I hope these young people don't want to leave this country, they'll try to get along at home, and the girls will try and have their children at home. So there are not enough doctors in this country, but there are other problems: there are also problems with universities. A Hungarian youth who wants to stay home, what does he read in statistics? He reads in the statistics that every year fewer and fewer young people get into universities, and they get into college, and they don't score terribly, brutally high scores, they just get into the university, they put a tuition fee on his neck, like, say, the ELTE law school, where a semester goes to 270 thousand forints a month, that's about 60 thousand forints a month. How many families do you think can pay for that? How many young, talented, but not wealthy children have no chance of getting into a university in Hungary? To have a child if you don't see the perspective, the degree, the higher wages, the possibility of getting a place to live? Several of my fellow Members have said that this is not going to work without a rental program, and that this will not work without rent support. Hungarian young people do not decide to take on a child by promising a passenger seat on the car or by sending Grandpa to the car, but by staying home, depending on whether they will be able to take up their jobs, for example, to get a degree, for example, to study, for example, to get an apartment. But you even took away the house savings with a single stroke of pen from young people, which meant a predictable, predictable future for young Hungarians, for all those who want to start a family at home. In addition, on your proposal, one word is that it is not enough, and the other is that it is helping very few people, especially the wealthy, who can calculate what if they fail to meet the conditions, and yet they have to repay the loan in some form. But I could also give examples of why it is difficult to start a family in Hungary today. Where are these young people gonna take her if it's not going so well for the family, like, like, vacationing that kid, that little kid? Because not to the Balaton, that's for sure, because it's being bought by you, and it's being purchased by your Lőrince Mészáros, or Viktor Orbán, the free beaches will cease, the campsites will cease. Where will they go on vacation? I'm not sure they'll be able to afford the wellness hotels you own. Where are these people going to go to rest? The Democratic Coalition therefore proposes an own family protection programme for consideration, with the observation, of course, that any initiative that helps Hungarian families is important and useful. I have no illusion that you would be open in any way to accept any opposition initiative, but it is also necessary for the protocol, for posterity and for the young people who are sitting here that there is another proposal, that there is a better and more credible alternative than you. Point 1 of this package of family protection laws listed by the Democratic Coalition: the slave law must be abolished. This slave law is inoperable, slavery to civil servants and public servants. How will a woman who works in the public service have a child if you are obliged to work ten hours a day and work on Saturdays? It's a hopeless business, no matter how much they promise him 10 million forints! Point 2: The eviction moratorium must be extended and the eviction of families completed. And then I'm not even gonna go into the fact that it's a Christian attitude to get people out of their apartment because they can't pay because the banks made contracts with them that they took out a loan of 5 million forints, and at the end, they spread their arms to 15 million people, that, well, now there's really a problem. And to the greater glory of your Christianity, these wretched families will even take the child away from them and put him in state care so that these families will eventually fall apart. So we have to finish the eviction. Point 3: There must be a legal guarantee that families with small children will not be evicted in any way, that some construction must be developed to stay in their homes, this is simply a question of humanity. If I may say, we Christians would do so. Point 4: Home care must be included in the employment relationship. I understand that there have been and there have been initiatives and that there has been some money for home care. Don't let me point backwards in the answer, because I'll be pointing backwards too, because I'll have data from 1998-2002 on how much the home care fee was if someone comes back with the 2002-2010. What I can say is that here in Parliament, we had a lively debate about the need for a certain circle of HUF 6 billion for home care, and you said you wouldn't give me this $6 billion. It's about a third of a stadium, but you didn't give it to me. Point 5: Increase the family allowance by at least 50%. Family allowance is the benefit that goes to all families. And only here is the last time the government led by Ferenc Gyurcsány increased the family allowance in Hungary in 2008, and you did not do so. Point 6: Open higher education. What you guys are doing is making it possible for a few people, wealthy people, to get into college, it's simply untenable. I don't even think that the Gyurcsány government has launched the program, with the help and leadership of the late Demján Sándor, which served precisely the purpose of getting talented children from poor ranks into higher education. This programme should also be re-launched and allowed to enter universities, because otherwise this option will only be given to them abroad and they will leave the country, and this should be prevented as much as possible; of course, not by leaving the European Union and this Schengen area, but by finding a way to keep these young people at home. So you have to open the doors to higher education. Point 7: for families in complete need, families in extreme poverty, up to a certain level of living conditions, water, gas and electricity should be free. This is not the amount of the Hungarian budget that would ruin the supposedly prosperous Hungarian economy, but the amount that could also satisfy humane aspects. Finally, let me say a few words about the fact that you regularly hide when faced with the fact that, during your governance, the number of births will break down negative records, you will gladly come with the data that the fertility rate is rising or falling; now, perhaps, it will rise by 2 centuries. I would like to point out that the fertility rate has never cried in the birthing room, that father, mother, that child has never gone to kindergarten, that has never been taken to the theatre or zoo; that will be a little. [[13.00]] Much more is needed for Hungarian families to thrive in Hungary. What you have done on this matter is extremely small and has been in government for nine years, and I would like to signal it. During the Gyurcsány government, which you regularly abuse, more children were born, much more children were born than during your government. So you can also say which government was the family-friendly government. The government was family-friendly, led by the socialists and free democrats. I know it's a dagger in your ribs, but it's still the truth. At the time, the families weren't in the same condition as they are today. Today, the Hungarian grandparents, the grandmothers who are left at home, who you refer to as how good it will be to show them the grandchildren and how much time they can spend with each other within the framework of the child, are being held at the same time as the Hungarian children born abroad waving to them on Skype, while they are wiping their tears; instead of filling the freshly baked scones and fried meat into their mouths so that lunch is almost ready, do not be hungry. But you have also deprived Hungarian families of this, and have created the situation that Hungarians living in London, Munich, Stuttgart, Oslo send photos and videos of the family home so that the child can be kept in touch. Hungarian families and Hungarian children are extremely important to the Democratic Coalition. Their birth and their future are the most important to us, because it is a pledge of the Hungarian future, but not in the way you do. And please, if you have turned to us to consider your proposals, I am now saying that you should also consider the proposals made by the opposition parties, in this case by the Democratic Coalition. Then there may be a package coming out of it that could really lead to consensus. It is worth considering. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the benches of DK and LMP.]]
u2019-03-19-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is now up to the LMP Group. They indicated that two speakers had presented their views. Therefore, as lead speakers, representatives of Márta Demeter and László Keresztes will follow. First up, Congresswoman Márta Demeter. Here you go.
u2019-03-19-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary! It is clear that it is always welcome when any positive measures are taken in relation to the support of families. That is why I would like to point out in the debate that the LMP faction will support the proposals that have been tabled. However, I would like to point out that we are talking about an extremely important issue. Measures on the future of families can actually determine the future of generations and have a very important economic policy relevance. For this reason, for me, for example, the question is that the Secretary of State has set out four points here, and that is what we are seeing in the package of proposals, although, by the way, they have talked about seven points. So the question is why this will not be submitted at the same time, and given the importance of the proposal, we find it strange that they are essentially regulating in implementing regulations matters that would otherwise be worth declaring even by law. This is interesting because many times we see a reverse practice from the government: they regulate a lot of things in law that should not be, and now what we should do may not be included in the bill. So we feel like they're running a little fast on this thing. This is precisely why we need to be more careful, because we are actually talking about something important, because we are talking about the future of Hungarian families. It is also clear that demographic growth is also essential for our country. It is also a fact that it is the current government's duty to move population processes forward sufficiently and to provide families with substantial security. Therefore, we need measures that really focus on these goals, and it is a very important element that these proposals not reflect on propaganda, but actually respond to the everyday situation of Hungarian families and implement the planned plans on the basis of them, so it is essentially necessary to reflect on reality. It is very important that people who are founders and family feel that they are given a lasting and predictable vision in the long term. Here too, sustainability, perspective, predictability determine what demographic trends are like in a country. Therefore, it is important to see packages that are sufficiently developed and do not contain ad hoc changes while driving, keeping families uncertain, but actually a predictable perspective. It is important to see in what context this package is being implemented, which has been brought before this House, and which I would like to say again that it is fundamentally welcome. However, it is also a fact that many people are left out of these measures. Therefore, the LMP also presents its own package of proposals, which specifically reflects on the social groups that are the everyday problems in the lives of Hungarian families, which require urgent measures, and I would like to ask you to support these proposals. It is clear that Hungarian families need real protection and quality health, as it is an essential condition for safety, an adequate level of education and a social network, on which they can certainly base their future. We can clearly see that your government is pursuing a very conscious social policy. It's a possibility. We fundamentally, complexly disagree with that. We are pleased when positive proposals of this kind are placed on the table, which we have now learned, although, I tell you, we should have been a little more detailed about all the proposals. We are thinking of a much more complex economic policy and social policy, which is much fairer and offers sustainable opportunities and long-term solutions to many more groups of society. So basically, these are two very different visions, very different economic and social policies. The LMP represents eco-political solutions in this case. On the other hand, I think it is a mistake that in the last nine years you have had the opportunity to begin restructuring and reforming the substantial, large supply systems, because this would have been urgently needed. These measures have failed, and I think this is a huge mistake. There would be a need for substantial changes, and these changes would ensure a genuinely sustainable family support system. It will therefore be included in our proposal for which we are asking for your support, given the importance of the subject, as Mrs Secretary of State has rightly said, that the network of family doctors and pediatricians must be transformed, because there is an amazing shortage of professionals in this area as well. Currently there are more than 350 unfilled adult and paediatric practitioners throughout the country, so there are no maximum replacements for basic medical care. I think that there can be no discussion between us that it is a vital issue for children and for parents to have a family, so that children can receive adequate health care and, of course, parents. Hospitals in rural areas, but also in the capital, are clearly lacking in expertise, and this must also be discussed, and many classes in rural areas are closed due to a shortage of professionals. Therefore, there are many families who need to travel for hours to receive the necessary health care. We should also mention that, in essence, there has been a crisis of care today, and we were very pleased that there has been progress on the pressures of both civilians and Members and society, for example, in relation to the home care fee, but the fact that the solution you have outlined is still not sustainable is still very much left out of this support. For this reason, caregivers should be properly valued, the institutions should be improved to the right quality, the necessary space should be provided and the burden should be removed from the relatives. On several points, we have submitted our proposal for an increase in the home care fee and a reform of the scoring system. We ask that these proposals not only be considered but also supported. With regard to the specific package, such as the purchase of motor vehicles, it is quite strange that car shopping aid is set at a percentage rate. It would be much more sustainable and fairer, they would be able to benefit more if this aid was set at a fixed amount and a maximum of two years of used vehicles could be purchased. Thus, the proposal that has been tabled would reflect on reality. [[13.10]] In addition, it is a huge problem for young people today to have access to housing, and part of it is the need for a rent-apartment scheme, which includes elements of a social rental scheme and keeping rent prices in check: both landlords and tenants must include adequate legal certainty. However, it is at least as important to implement a substantial wage increase, which applies on the one hand to market wages, i.e. a substantial increase in wages is required instead of the reduction of multinational companies and the extension of overtime, and we have said many times in the case of public sector workers that the civil servant salary base needs to be raised from HUF 38 650 to HUF 60,000. This also determines the future of hundreds of thousands of families. This is where I want to talk about single-parent families. The government doesn't give them any credit. A single parent centre has been established, but no meaningful progress has been made beyond the possibility that all legal advice may be provided to those involved or that they may be easier to communicate with each other. What is needed is to increase the family allowance, which has not increased in ten years, by 45 percent, to HUF 20,000 for single-parent families, and we also propose a 30% increase for non-single-parent families. It is also necessary to ensure the use of family tax incentives for single-parent families, since they have much less income and cannot take advantage of this tax relief than others and to receive all large family allowances. At the moment, 1.3 million people in Hungary are affected by this issue. They live in a single - parent family, we are talking about over 500,000 children, and I think that no one chooses this life situation in a good mood. Moreover, there is a huge risk of poverty for single - parent families, and many times we talk about single mothers, but here we also have to mention that many fathers are raising their children alone. 70,000 families were affected in this way. It is therefore necessary to rethink the system of setting maintenance fees, or even with regard to judicial proceedings, or often to provide assistance and guidance in relation to child placements. Allow me to point out one more thing: this is the flask program, where yes, the government gave me a little more money for this, nearly HUF 5 billion, but they did not deal at all with mental health training and assistance, family therapy; and what is extremely important is to strengthen screening. So we will present all this proposal to the House, we will support what you have brought here, because it is about Hungarian families, but many have been left out of this support package and from offering them a meaningful perspective. We will do this, and we will ask for your support.
u2019-03-19-44	Thank you very much. Congressman László Lóránt Keresztes, lead speaker, you have four and a half minutes.
u2019-03-19-45	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Mr President, In short, I would like to add what my fellow Member said, and I see that in the first round I am the first-to-last speaker, so I already have the opportunity to respond to what has been said. I would like to refer right back to the introduction of Mrs Secretary of State, she said that this is a national issue, and we agree perfectly with that. It would be very good if, in addition to political voices, this commitment had been reflected in their actions over the past nine years. You said, in your exposé, that you would turn to the opposition and ask everyone to put aside party political commitment and stand on this issue. We agree perfectly with that, but the problem is that Mrs Gabriella Selmeczi immediately followed you on behalf of Fidesz immediately, and then Lőrinc Nacsa, who has already become tired and is not present in the debate. In his 15-minute speech, he wasted about 12 minutes on the opposition. Nevertheless, Madam Secretary, we take it seriously that this is a national issue and that is the way we stand on this issue, and I would also like to thank my fellow opposition Member for his constructive attitude. We will look at all the opposition proposals, and we will support everything we consider to be forward-looking in this matter. I would like to add that I repeat what my fellow Member, Mr Demeter, said that the measures that we are already seeing will be supported by the LMP with its vote, because they are extremely important measures; of course, we will do our additional proposals, as my fellow Member has said. It must be said that this is a demographic crisis, which is, by the way, the biggest, serious failure of the government that has been in existence since 2010; but let us not be so unfair, this is the case that we have come to this point, this is the responsibility of the governments of the past decades. We must face this situation, and I very much hope that, in addition to the fact that we have now heard party political speeches from the party representatives, you too feel this responsibility, that you must now be open and constructive, and that you must be able to go beyond the consideration of making a party political issue out of it. I hope that you will be open to appropriate debates in the coming weeks and will support the supplementary proposals of the opposition, including the LMP. However, it must be said, and it can be seen from the speeches of my fellow opposition Members that there is broad agreement in this regard, that in order to achieve a result in this demographic crisis, a comprehensive change of approach is needed. So this is how we have to start to go beyond the period of failure of Fidesz's nine-year governance now, and we can go beyond the serious failures of the past decades. And in order to do this and to be able to engage in meaningful debates, we really need to start work with an honest assessment of the situation. I can only refer you back to Madam Secretary. We are not talking about why this bill had to be included at all: it is in a position to govern Hungary in a situation where it has already become the second poorest country in the Union, and it is simply limiting the birth of the desired children by the uncertainty and the extremely bad social and economic situation that has emerged and that these are the things that we have to face. God sees my soul, I do not want to defend the governments before 2010, but let me tell you, Congresswoman, that in the last eight years that you have wasted a lot of time, that is, in the period 2002-2010, 50 thousand more children have been born than in your 2010-18 governance cycle. So honesty is certainly to be expected, and a realistic assessment of the situation is certainly to be expected and expected from you. The most important issue, I see, is now going to be addressed in a normal comment, and this is a matter of emigration. This must be said, and I would like to correct my fellow Members here, did they not say that one in six Hungarian children is born abroad, it is so accurate that one in six children are born abroad. And we see the shocking figures shown by the various statements on the basis of the intentions of emigration or emigration, and indeed with this uncertainty, this extremely bad social and economic situation, in a strong context, the emigration intention marks the willingness to bear children, that the birth of the expected, expected child is delayed. But on this issue, I see that my time has run out and I would like to speak in more detail in a normal comment. Thank you.
u2019-03-19-46	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. State Secretary Katalin Novák wishes to speak on behalf of the government. Here you go.
u2019-03-19-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to respond to a few things that have been said in the keynote speeches. On the one hand, I would like to thank those who have really been able to give a moderate voice and allow a meaningful debate to take place. I am pleased that, and I think it is certainly a forward-looking thing that the speeches now seem to at least agree that the demographic challenge is a question of fate for us. We have not yet been sure that this is a good starting point, and I think that every single speaker, even from the opposition benches, has agreed with us how important the demographic fate issue is. [[Attila Gelencsér will be replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]] That's where my problems come from. It is very difficult to argue if we do not have a factual discussion, if the data is embellished, if they ignore certain trends, if we do not take each other seriously enough to be able to talk to each other and to argue. I would like to ask you in the remainder of the debate to try and do so. There is one thing that I would like to make clear and make clear here, and I am glad that even the young people who have heard the data you have presented are here: we ourselves have said it firmly since 2010, and this has been true since 1998-2002, but since the second Orbán government, I think there is hardly such a serious speech when we do not say how serious the demographic situation is in Hungary, so that this is a national issue. [[13.20]] I think this is exactly what our government has put on the agenda, and we are exactly the ones who are talking about it openly. Some have also done so in opposition positions, but have not yet had government responsibilities. But as governments, we are talking about this so openly for the first time, at least let us not pretend that we are unaware of this problem, that we are not dealing with it. We deal with it, we not only understand and deal with it, but we also try to do something about it. We also talked about, even I said in my opening speech, that this is an issue, a national issue, the solution of which is only partially in our hands. The real solution is in the hands of Hungarian young people, they are able to make decisions about their own childbearing and family formation against this demographic situation, they are able to do so that Hungarians can become a growing, youthful nation again. So we have to count on them, lean on them, and help them. But if we agree, and if we can at least clarify the basic figures, that 1981 is the year since the decline of the population in Hungary every year, then let's take each other so seriously that we know that this means that there are fewer young people, and obviously the birth rate cannot be the indicator that can give a credible picture of demographic change. Almost all of them brought that up. Every decent demographer agrees that the fertility index is the indicator that should be monitored and monitored in this sense. So I'm just asking you not to manipulate me, manipulate me, start from this, and then we're looking at factual data, and we recognise the change in these, at least positive changes. I myself say that yes, there is still a lot of effort to become a growing, youthful nation again. I would like to respond to some of the things that have been said, not going into every proposal in detail, thanking the person who has made forward-looking proposals and thanking him, and in this respect I must say that I can only give the LMP's faction a positive feedback, at least they said that they would clearly support these proposals. The others have made it conditional on conditions which they know will not happen, or they have explicitly stated that they will not support it in this way, in this form. [[Dániel Z. Kárpát: Secretary of State, this is not the case!]] So thank you to those who support these proposals. I fully agree with what has come up here among the speakers about how important it is to create a home. I would also like to respond to the suggestion of Mr Dániel Z., and to the suggestion that it would be a property or a rental. And yes, he asked what kind of data we refer to. Let us look at last year's data if we want to have a factually professional debate with each other. He says that it is not a real life situation that someone in Hungary lives in an own-owned apartment. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's not what I said. I said it wasn't typical.]] Today, 86 percent of last year's figures live in Hungarian people's own homes, so I think we can say that to a lifelike thing. 86 percent, nearly nine out of ten people live in their own home in Hungary. And when we asked young people about high-pattern youth research, where we asked young people about the importance of living in their own property, or, for example, as in many countries of Western Europe, it is increasingly common that young people live in apartments for hire in the long term, even for decades, this is not the case in Hungary. Hungarian young people want a home of their own, for Hungarian people it is important to have a home, it is important to own property, so we are trying to help Hungarian young people to live in their own homes, and there has never been a home creation program like this in Hungary. Congressman, of course, you can cut pictures, and I know you don't like it when we talk about facts and confront them with numbers, but I think that if you have asked us to continue our professional debate, you should at least try to take these numbers into account and keep them in mind in the professional debate. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Are we really judging each other?]] As regards the problem of infertility raised by Mrs Bangóné and by Mrs Demeter Márta, I believe that we still have a job to do in this area, there is still room for improvement in this area. Fertility affects more and more young couples. Today, according to some data, one in seven, even one in five couples suffers from fertility problems, and it is true that these couples do not have the ability to have the desired, planned children. Although we have launched a programme in this area, we have significantly increased funding, we can now get cheaper access to related medicines, and we are also trying to increase public involvement in this area, and I am not saying that there is no longer any way forward in this area, so we welcome all the forward-looking proposals here. I also agree that single - parent families should also be supported. I would stress here that it is also true that this single-parent centre has started, which is not quite the same in the world, but there are many other tools to support single-parent families, even in the current family protection action plan, where their children can be used by single-parent educators, as do two-parent families. This has not been done before, so that is why I think that if they support this family protection action plan and the related law, they will also support single-parent families. As to the specific question as to why, in this way, Congresswoman Márta Demeter asked why it was so scheduled or why this legislative proposal is now about four points. Because we are introducing four points of this family protection action plan on July 1, which is why we have now had to regulate these four points by law. And how fast are we going? I feel that there is still a long enough time until 1 July, and that the detailed rules are already known in the form of regulations, so I trust that there is enough time for everyone to prepare for the situation even next year, so if, for example, grandparents live with their families, they have enough time until next year to plan this life situation in advance. The level of regulation is: what is required by law is regulated by law, which is enough by regulation and by regulation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Let's not analyze each other's faceplay, because it's not very elegant!]]
u2019-03-19-48	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Venus Anett. Here you go.
u2019-03-19-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, He has already asked opposition colleagues not to mention last year's birth date, or to compare the eight years that passed between 2002 and 2009 and the difference between 2010 and 2018, but I think we should talk about this, that in the last eight years there have been 50,000 babies less than the last eight years that you have cursed a thousand times, and this is a very important indicator. It is also a very important indicator that, compared to 2017, the number of babies born in Hungary decreased by 1777 last year, and the birth rate decreased to a virtually historical low point, so the natural population loss in Hungary increased in 2018. We have to talk about these, but personally, and the Hungarian Liberal Party, we have no quarrel with the government that population policy is a public matter, and the government is doing the right thing if it aims to ensure that the children we want can be born in this country as much as possible, because we know that we have become a country of unborn children. However, I would like to draw the attention of a secretary of state, which does not paint a good picture of our country in terms of fertility rates, which shows a 1.4 indicator for Hungarians. At the same time, we can see that in our European counterparts, where social organisers have sought greater equality of rights between women and men, we have managed to achieve a quite good fertility rate. Here I give such data as Denmark, Finland or Norway, where they approach indicator 1.8 or Iceland, where the same indicator is around 1.9. It is therefore admirable that they can better approximate the desired fertility rate. Of course, they are not able to maintain the number of people in society, so in this way they are not out of the line that the whole of Europe is suffering from, namely: the problem of an ageing society. However, I would also like to note that the measures that the government has taken over the last eight years have not been really effective, because there are very few or very few social groups that have been able to benefit from, for example, family housing benefits. At the moment, regulation is discriminatory as to who of the women who are about to have children can or may not take out a ten million HUF loan for free use. At a time when the government mentions tens of millions of forints of housing support, I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the case of families with two children, there is 42 percent of the loan from this tens of millions of forints grant, and in the case of families with three children, the same magnitude. [[13.30]] So in this way, it's a tens of years of family debt-bearing help. However, I note that we still need to look for ways to help families and young people to have children and bring their children into the world. However, there are very different ways to do this in a more developed society, which calls for other proposals for solutions in the 21st century. The challenges of the century, and this is equality between women and men. This is when women can feel safe in the labour market; when they know that they can return and rejoin the labour market in such a way that they will not suffer legal disadvantages. This is very important because, today, at the moment, one of the greatest poverty risk factors in Hungary is the establishment of a family, because it is a significant legal disadvantage for a woman to have a child, and it is indeed the responsibility of society to define legal frameworks in a way that employers cannot do to workers that they are discriminated against only because they are ahead of family planning and are born to a woman. I would like to mention an example from a fellow European party that the Hungarian Liberal Party urged us to introduce in Hungary, unfortunately, our proposal for a resolution has already been swept down by the majority in the Commission's work by the pro-government majority, and this was to ensure that fathers and mothers go on an equal footing when their baby is born. We are not thinking of the same period, but we are thinking that fiscal incentives can be used to encourage young couples to share the same share of baby care. This not only serves to improve the balance sheet statistics for unpaid work in the long term, but it has also reduced the number of divorces for our European partner, namely Sweden, where this model is already working well, and it is clear that more children are dared to take on after these families feel safe on the labour market because they have automatically started to eliminate discrimination against women in the labour market. These are very important issues that the current Hungarian government does not address. I would also like to mention some figures that, at the moment, the outcome of the family home creation discount is highly doubtful, as so far 58 255 CSOK contracts have been concluded by mostly childless couples and 20 686 children have been born in these families. So, after the grace period is over, we will be able to tell you which couples, who have overtaken themselves, fall into virtually their own business in the area of family creation, and they themselves will suffer the same disadvantages as families with foreign currency credits who have suffered millions of forints. I did not see the government proposing this crisis at the moment, and I would like to thank you if the Secretary of State responded separately. Another problem with the current action plan, which the government suggests is that poorer families are almost completely ignored, is that it is only the upper middle class whose property assets can grow. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the average wage or more earners of this package can receive four times as much support as the poorer of them. This also implies that those who really need, say, nest support, cannot benefit from this support. I would also like to briefly mention that, for example, there is a top ceiling for housing aid for Poles that, in the case of those who are not in need, there is no State aid available beyond a certain income limit. I would urge this very much, because I think that in a country where I say 2016 data, 20 percent of Hungarian children under the age of six are not completely fresh in serious deprivivement, this means that if we do not help these families, they will only be able to regenerate the poverty of their own parents, and this will paint a very sad picture for Hungarian society for the future. I also know and very much object when the Hungarian Government says that they want to support those who want to make a living for their children and not their children. Madam Secretary, as a liberal, I myself believe that this is a racist comment that I condemn in every case. This is exactly the same fermented racism as when the soros posters show the veiled anti-Semitism. I find this completely unacceptable in Europe. I would like the Hungarian government to look at family and family in the same way, and not to think of our fellow citizens that they want to make a living with their children. Fortunately, I have not heard this sentence from the Secretary of State myself, but I would like the Hungarian Government not to show this attitude when talking about Hungarian families. I would like to talk about mothers with four children and what their sja-free means. With the Hungarian Liberal Party, we believe that this is a hoax. The Saja exemption would be a real gift for mothers with four children if they could receive such benefits from gross income of HUF 1 million, because at the moment, the tax relief available for families with three children is 140 thousand forints, but gross income of one million forints would mean that the mother of four would have more state support than the mother of three. I don't think they're out of the water, nor do I think there's too many mothers with four children in this country who have a gross income of one million forints or more. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that there are 50,000 women with four or more children in our country, and their share of people who work in full-time jobs is small. So a total of 12,500 people are involved in this case, and they are also in such a way that they are making real progress with the package that is currently being announced. A third of those who have three or more children have only declared a job. In the vast majority of this, it is because the Hungarian labour market already discriminates significantly against women, not to mention what happens to mothers with multiple children. And I am talking not only about the ability of middle-class or upper-middle-class mothers to keep their leading positions or positions in which they are well-earned, but also about those who, if they were looking for them under the average wage, and even this job, because simply because of their motherhood, they are branded as unreliable workers. The Secretary of State pointed out that she would like to hear from the opposition benches the forward-looking proposals to move forward on the current problems and to complement your proposals, where appropriate. I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to the fact that you have not paid attention, for example, to the eradication of domestic violence. In this context, ratification of the Istanbul Convention would be a significant step forward. Equality between women and men in Hungary has not been enough; I am not only thinking about the labour market, but also within the large institutional systems. You can see we're doing very badly here. According to the latest survey of the World Economic Forum, out of 140 countries, our country has reached 102th place in the question of whether it is good to be a woman in this country, looking at job market positions such as parliamentary representation or even the potential of women in large institutional systems compared to men. Not only did the Hungarian government not act to eliminate the violence of birth, but Miklós Kásler had a team of experts who wanted to draw the Minister's attention to this serious problem, which could affect both mother and her unborn child for years or the rest of their lives; unfortunately, the Minister did not consider this team of experts to be worthy to listen to them and to legislate proposals that, according to WHO, would otherwise be recommended in our country. [[13.40]] I would like to draw attention to one more thing in this regard. As far as our economic development is concerned, there are a lot of premature births in this country. At the moment, there is no money to look at the background of this, since it is not typically the regions that draw this statistics forward in terms of the number of premature births that we would expect, where, for example, the problem of foetal hunger or hunger during pregnancy is already present, but we see simply a global picture that is not yet being answered within the system. Moreover, it is very important that, if the number of premature births is so high, much more attention should be paid to early development. I myself believe that attention should be paid not only to increasing the number of children who do not cause the problem, as we hear from the Prime Minister regularly, but also to the fact that there are families who need to help them, say, in the development of their children or even in the care of their children. That's what my fellow Members have been talking about. So to summarise and conclude my speech: I must say that for the time being, photos are being purchased from foreign photo agencies in order to advertise their family policy. I would like to ask you that you cannot find Hungarian families who would take on the task of showing how much the family policy of the Orbán government has helped them and how far forward this is. I would also like to talk about these issues. I would also like to talk about how credible this family policy is when, by the way, basically many families in this country feel terrible. Thank you so much for listening.
u2019-03-19-50	Thank you very much. Now, please, two-minute speeches, the first of which will be Mr.Dániel Z. Carpathian, Mr Jobbik.
u2019-03-19-51	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for taking part in this debate for the first time. Typically, they usually only react in the closing circle. I respect that this is not the case. At the same time, on one of the issues that came up, I think you didn't understand what we wanted to say. I do not dispute that 86 percent of Hungary's statistical data show that they live in own-owned real estate. Of course, everyone is registered somewhere, and there are relatively modest numbers of people who do this in their apartments or residences. At the same time, my question is quite clear: what do you recommend to those Hungarians in typical situations who, according to the HCSO, earn an average of 217 thousand forints for the last year covered with all data sources and closed years? I would like to add that we are talking about statistics, so three million people don't earn this much, because if four people in a five-person company earn 100 thousand forints and one person earns one million forints, then the average comes out of 280 000 forints, so instead of statistics, we might have to look at something else instead of the average, but these people, who made 217 thousand forints on average and on paper, face an average rent of 149 thousand forints in Budapest. It is not difficult to calculate that if there is also a salary and a cost of living, for a young couple starting their lives, where wages are obviously not so high as to belong to the upper segment of the average, they are faced with the fact that the total income of one of the young couple typically goes to the sublet. In order to pay the rent, it is necessary to make up for the other salary and to make a living, to grow, not to mention saving. Madam Secretary, these are typical life situations. These people aren't CHOK recipients. Typically, in 350 thousand net payments, bank administrators drive away these people, while we are talking about young Hungarians, who are needed at home; and they should be sent a message when I talk about a rental program, I would like to send them a message. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and I also expect there to be a meaningful government message to these groups. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-19-52	This is Congressman László Keresztes, LMP, in two minutes.
u2019-03-19-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I, too, thank the Secretary of State for giving me the opportunity to have a substantive debate. We stopped being honest when I ran out of time. Indeed, I agree with the fact that the performance of governments so far can be assessed, that statistical data is available. This has been described in detail by my opposition colleagues in relation to your performance, but we can see what performance the previous governments have had, what omissions they have had. However, what I am thinking about in the first place is the question of emigration, the perception of forced emigration. I have seen over the past months, slowly over the last year, that you have not yet reached the point of admitting honestly that this is a serious problem, this is a national tragedy, which, by the way, reached this astonishing level in 2011 under your government; I am talking about forced emigration. When we debate this issue, I typically hear three reasons from the pro-government representatives who claim to be national. One is, for example, that there is a higher rate of migration from other countries. It's obviously unfortunate, but we need little comfort from it. I have also heard from you how the common labour market works; so if you leave Hungary, like working in London, Munich, it is a natural process. I prefer not to comment on this, so I do not consider a national representative who says that he does not care whether, let's say, a Hungarian child lives or is born in Budapest or Berlin. And the other is the false or, you might say, a false statement that the trend of exodus would have been reversed. That's not true. Indeed, the proportion of returnees has increased slightly compared to the number of emigrants, but the negative side of the balance is still very serious, so there are still thousands more emigrants. Unfortunately, this emigration process has not yet stopped, despite the fact that my pro-government fellow Members have lied that it has stopped. And if we see the shocking statistics that express the intention of emigration, then perhaps you can feel that if there will be no complex change of approach, there will be no fundamentally different social and economic policy, then with these measures we will not be able to take meaningful steps to stop this national tragedy and to achieve results in order to eradicate the demographic crisis. Thank you.
u2019-03-19-54	Thank you very much. There will now be further speeches by Members. First, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, Fidesz, please.
u2019-03-19-55	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning of my speech, allow me to take two reactions. I didn't ask for two minutes, because I knew I was next. It was a very special manifestation of Anett Bősz on behalf of the Liberal Party, and I must also reject it, which in any context links the approach to anti-Semitism that is formulated in this action plan, in this bill. On the other hand, his comment was special because this is said by the liberal party representative, who, by the way, is standing on the stage with politicians making openly anti-Semitic statements in Hungarian political life. The second is what you said about the Istanbul Convention: it is a magical expression that my opposition fellow Members think that the only way to combat all forms of violence is by ratifying the Istanbul Convention is to protect children and women and families. Today, you can look around Europe at who ratified the Istanbul Convention and see what the situation of women is like there, because most of these countries are raping women and children every day. In recent years, we have brought Europe's strictest criminal code and have been tightening it up ever since. These are the laws, these are the laws that are even more stringent in many cases than the Istanbul Convention offers. But since this was not the debate that took place, I do not want to go into the details of this. Ladies and gentlemen, Following the steps taken since 2010, the family protection action plan will help children and children in Hungary with further substantial support. The Action Plan and this bill were drawn up in the light of the results of the national consultation. This has been said more than once today, and we do not see it as a closed process. We also want to expand the subsidies year after year. We in Fidesz-KDNP imagine the future of Hungary with Hungarian children and not with the introduction of immigrants. I know that a lot of comments and reactions have been and will be made by opposition representatives. We are not just saying this, but we are politicalising along this principle, and legislative proposals are being made along this principle. We act along this principle. [[13.50]] This action plan, the bill we are discussing, is an integral part of this. Among other things, with the family protection action plan, we say that raising children is a performance that should be recognised at Community level and supported at all possible levels. We believe that good family policies can be pursued here in Hungary, and we also believe that this can be a good example and a good model for the rest of Europe. The family protection action plan reflects the opinion of the Hungarian people on the basis of the national consultation. This opinion is the same as what we believe in the Hungarian population situation in Fidesz-KDNP, which we also think about Hungarian family policy. During the debate of this law in Parliament and then in the final vote, the opposition will have ample opportunity to decide whether or not it is finally standing for Hungarian families and Hungarian children, the Hungarian people and the Hungarian nation. A great deal has been said in the debate between the keynote speeches. I confess a personal remark, and I often felt that many of my fellow Members were living on the moon, on the other side of the moon, on the dark side of it, because from there you do not see what is happening here in the world, you do not see what is happening in Europe, nor do you see what is happening in Hungary. They do not see and are unable to admit that Hungary spends the most money in support of families in Europe: twice as much money as in 2010, 2000 billion forints, which is 4.8 percent of GDP. Nor can they see or do they want to see from the other side of the moon that since 2012, the desire to have children has increased significantly, as Madam Secretary said in her expo, by 21 percent. And let me make a comment here: a number of people have operated here with statistical numbers in which, if you think about it, you can clearly see, even a fifth-grader, that if there are fewer women with much fewer parents, you cannot expect them to have more children during a given period. That is why we are talking, and that is why the Prime Minister is talking, which is why both Minister and Secretary of State are talking about the fertility rate, which is a ratio, the fertility rate. And indeed, the fact that this rose by 21 percent is welcome. Indeed, we are not at the end of the process, but you can see that the birth rate is increasing rather than stagnating and not decreasing, that is to say, the desire to have children has not yet disappeared from the lives of Hungarian young people, Hungarian fathers and mothers. They do not even realize that family protection measures, including those that are now enshrined in this law, are supported by the vast majority of people. With regard to support for families in Hungary today, we must say and acknowledge, and you should also acknowledge that there is a national unity. There were also speeches in the debate which, although of a political nature, cannot be left unspoken. The lead speaker of MSZP would like to make the present and future of Hungarian children and Hungarian families quite simply a bargaining point. He commented that the MSZP would support this otherwise forward-looking package of laws if Fidesz-KDNP also supported certain proposals to compensate for this. I think it's amazing, but we've seen it from the opposition benches. They mentioned humane questions, evictions. I think the greatest inhumanity was when people believed hundreds of thousands, millions of people were forced to take on foreign exchange loans. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Járai Zsigmond!]] And when foreign currency loans were taken out between 2002 and 2010, when these loans were taken out by the families, then the house went over their heads in many cases, and they would have become completely land runners if the Fidesz-KDNP government had not taken steps in several steps after 2010 to help foreign currency lenders and to deliver foreign currency loans. They mentioned the care fee. Dear fellow Members, do not be hypocritical or have such short memories. Were they on the other side of the moon when they were here in Parliament on December 12th? Maybe their minds did, their bodies were actually here, because we voted on a significant increase in the care fee, and you didn't vote for it, even though you were here in the Chamber. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Because we wanted to give more!]] Then, of your proposals, how can we believe in the proposal that certain utility items be financed by the state when you have tripled the price of gas? How can we believe such suggestions? There was another point that I didn't want to take critically. Bősz Anett had a suggestion, which the Liberal Party has mentioned for a long time and urges that men and women participate in equal proportions during their years. We know that this is still possible today, because the family can decide whether the father will stay at home or take turns, and we even know that from January onwards, grandparents can take advantage of this opportunity. The difference between the two positions is that you want this to be binding. [[Vengeance Anett: We don't want to!]] Well, then that's changed. Then my answer is that there is an opportunity for the father, the mother, and even the grandparents to remain free from 1 January. It is worth noting the differences between women's and men's wages that all countries still have work to do here, but we in Hungary can say that we are among the best in Europe in terms of differences between women's and men's wages, and we are on the same level with Sweden. In other countries, even major Western societies, this difference is significantly greater. Let us remember the times when DK and the socialists have always taken me away from families. The specific politicians of MSZP and DK have always voted against families in both government and opposition, every step of the way. When they governed, families were the number one target of austerity. If something had to be saved, families and child rearing were always the number one victim. Remember that they took away the family tax relief of one and two children, eliminated the three-year-old child, took away the home creation program, and made the lives of families raising children more difficult with nursery, kindergarten and school closures, as well as with continuous tax increases. Nor have they supported measures to help families in recent years, the budget or the introduction of a family tax system. Nor did they support the further increase in the family tax relief of two children, nor did they support the extra Gyed, nor did they support the restoration of the three-year child and the introduction of the family home-building programme. The national family protection consultation was also constantly under attack. Today we also remembered how my Socialist colleague ripped up the consultation sheet, and others openly say it, as Tamás Bauer of Gyurcsány did that they see Hungary's future in migrants and not in support of Hungarian families. You may say otherwise, but your comrades and fellow parties are in a different position. Let's talk about this between you two. [[György Szilágyi will be replaced by Dr. László György Lukács in the notary seat.]] You also said that it was only empty promises announced by the prime minister in the family action plan. Well, today's bill is the first proof that, if the action plan is adopted, we will ensure from 1 July that Fidesz-KDNP will accept it, so this will be a sure thing. [[14.00]] And your further steps, as Madam Secretary said here, can be put into effect by 1 January. It is also a strong proof that a government decision has already been taken on the expansion of existing crèches, the absence of mothers with four children, and the birth of grandparents. So it's not just talking in the air. It is also not true for single-parent families that we do not think about it, because CSOK, interest-supported loans, subsidies for mortgage loans, tax incentives can all be used by single-parent families. Ladies and gentlemen, With the four new measures that will enter into force on 1 July, with baby shower support, car shopping support for large family members, the expansion of loans related to family home creation and the reduction of real estate-backed mortgage loans, our aim is to increase the need for children in Hungary. We are pushing for this because we are determined and determined to put population processes in a positive direction in Hungary. It's not a year or two job, it's a lot more than that. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-19-56	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2019-03-19-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Compared to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, I will try to be more pragmatic and start from the facts than from dreams and desires. The title of this bill is the amendments to the law necessary for the implementation of the family protection action plan. This bill consists of 22 rows, taking into account the fragments, in total, in addition to the final provisions, it consists of three paragraphs. In comparison, the secretary of state presented this as a bill for 15 minutes. However, what Mrs Katalin Novák spoke about was not included in this proposal. What is happening in this House today? The government is asking Parliament's representatives for a blank cheque, a proposal in the House's walls that is not written in any bill. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Hungarian Gazette.]] So, what Secretary Katalin Novák said was nothing more than a hoax. This is only so that voters know it is only about the fact that, in the case of a loan of some amount to be taken out by a credit institution as a baby shower scheme, the State is guaranteed that no other guarantee for such loans can be requested by credit institutions. This bill is about these three sentences, nothing more. Anyone could ask, if what Congresswoman Katalin Novak said about the conditions here, and the protection of the family is so very, very important to the government, what prevented her from presenting these details to us, whether by law or by law. After all, the government decides on the level of legislation to which a proposal is to be included in the legal resources hierarchy. The other issue is that basic relations, basic relations and conditions of existence really need to be regulated by law, but there would have been no reason for the government to put it in a bill if this proposal had been fully ready, as it was presented, and we could see it. Because if we could normally negotiate laws consisting of paragraphs 200 to 300, such as yesterday's data protection, then what would have prevented this measure from being so rich, that it would actually appear in writing and not be made up of four paragraphs along with the closing provisions? [[Lőrinc Nacsa: He has already appeared.]] But let's move on to the address: family, defense, action plan. What's your family for? The family is incorporated into the Fundamental Law, and for you, the basic family is just the marriage of a man and a woman and their children. The concept of family is based exclusively on marital and parent-child relations. This means that you have removed from the concept of a family in 2011 the basic relationship of man created by nature, the blood relationship. Since then, your work has been based on this distorted relationship, that an aunt and nephew who have stayed together and lived together cannot be a family. A widow and her child or a widower and her child or a divorced man and her child are not a complete family to you. Here, take a look. If you do not consider blood relations to be a family bonding condition, then the name of the family, the use of the word family, is completely out of your control of natural conditions. Here's the word defense: family protection. Well, for example, I think that when it turned out in 2011, how many families will lose their homes during the crappy foreign exchange loan scheme [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Shame.]] Then, interestingly, the protection of the family did not appear with such a great emphasis, because then it was still possible to campaign with the reduction of the rent, and then last year with migration. It is now out of air, and there is an election campaign for the elections to the European Parliament, and it is being pushed into Parliament, among 199 Members, to a plan of four paragraphs, and it says that this will be the perfect answer to the protection of families, and all the beautiful, vocal consequences that have been described in the general statement of reasons, and then this law will do. This law is for those beautiful purposes because the goals are wonderful, who would not share it; if a Member in this House does not think of families as described in the general explanation, then it must not be represented, but this way to the goals that the secretary of state has presented in the name of the government does not lead. But just in order to answer the question, for example, why family protection can be achieved in a way of borrowing, why it is the instrument to link the protection of a family and the implementation of future family plans to credit, I would like to quote Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's earlier words. There is a mood for bankers, banks, capital and international financial institutions. A liberal government will be able to confront xenophobia harshly. These are the words of Viktor Orbán. So what's going on? The thing is, the wonderful subject of family protection is again being brought in as a factor: banks. Well, how happy the banks will be if we finance the interest from the state budget, and we need the capital under certain conditions if the children and the families are not born. This will generate a deal for the banks, which will once again increase interest rates with unilateral amendments and thus the burden of the Hungarian budget, as they have always done. So this is a business for the banks. This can't be taken away. I would like to indicate what we are saying every day, for the work that a Hungarian citizen is doing, and it is a work of value, and it is of the same quality as any of our fellow European citizens in Western Europe, that he should receive the wage corresponding to the proportion of price differences between the two countries. As long as the cost of a Western European person is 40 percent higher and earns three times as much as a Hungarian citizen, it means that work in this country is not paid for its value. And if the work were to be paid at the value of Hungary, the families themselves would be able to create the living conditions that the government thinks can be achieved by this method. But let's keep going. Action plan, action plan. This constant militaristic thinking, this constant mindset with terrible momentum, fighting and all kinds of fighting rhetoric, should be forgotten! [[14.10]] People don't need action, they don't need a military mindset from a government, they need peace, they need peace, they need peace, they need peace; if there's a problem, the government will solve it because it's authorized. To a family, to the word "defense," to the word "family protection" is again accompanied by an action plan to keep people excited, so that the government is doing something serious again, even though it has submitted only four paragraphs to this bill. But let's look at the rest of the real data, because it's very important that we know what we're talking about. The birth count has been stagnating for many years. Death, on the other hand, is an extremely interesting figure, and this is the next one. While the number of deaths decreased significantly from 2010 to 2015, the number of elderly population has not changed significantly in these years, but since 2015 the trend has reversed, 4 percent more people have died by 4 percent, since 2015. Since when have public and commercial taxes, television, radio taxes, and newspapers been constantly scary advertisements? There's a couple of doctors in this room. [[Happy István and his fellow Members constantly intervene.]] Every professional knows that various channels that constantly call for dangers to people's nervous systems threaten people's everyday lives, and that fear kills people's souls. [[Dániel Z. Kárpat to the pro-government representatives: You can tell us for now, can't you?]] And whoever kills the soul of fear will get sick, and he will die. Unfortunately, today we do not have any record of how many people have died just because of the constant fear that has been created on all channels to this day, every hour of fear-soaked music and the words with which people are constantly being harassed are constantly burdened. In addition to health problems, I believe that the increase in mortality has also been created by policies that address people's fears. [[Interview from the benches of the governing parties: Hestics...]] Article 15 of the Fundamental Law Article 1 (1) of the Act states that everyone is equal before the law. [[György Szilágyi to the MPs: Press the button and tell me. I want your opinion. Tell me. Intruder from the benches of Jobbik: Don't growl. Z. Carpathian Daniel: Now press the button! The president's ringing the bell.]] This means that when we make a law, every citizen who has the same living conditions has the same conditions. [[György Szilágyi: Push the button!]] I would like to know and it would be my pleasure if Mrs Secretary of State could answer the only question: who has already had three or four children, i.e. who have already fulfilled the government's expectations, why would he be more disadvantaged than someone who might want to live with it afterwards. [[György Szilágyi to the President: Mr President, this clown is constantly... you can't hear anything! Dániel Z. Carpathian: He talks all the time.]] Or what's happening again, like in the last nine years, is that they've been confronting each other with a government measure, a law, social groups. Once again, the confrontation of social groups is a terrible conflict-making relationship that results in what again: the uncertainty of people, the disease of their souls, and then their bodies give up. I ask the government very nicely, to try to take any new measures to stop digging trenches among people, not to distinguish them, but to really help everyone benefit from these measures. On February 23, 2019, your newspaper, your newspaper, the Hungarian Nation, wrote again, and I quote: "More and more young people are struggling with mental illness, and there is no professional staff who can help with this, and families can work it up, overcome the mental problems of young people. It's written by your press! Having children and raising children is not primarily a question of money. This question is primarily about love, about someone wanting to give wonderful people to the world, and that's why they want to deliver it, and now, every time we talk about it in the last year, they only approach it from the side of money. Who may have more children because money is due, not because his soul's most important emotional task is [[The sound system is starting to buzz. Nacsa Lárinc: Lajos calls! Dániel Z. Carpathian: The problem is that you are coming out of yourselves, Lawrence! That's the problem.]] For her to have as many children as possible and give them to the world, it means that you do not want a healthy generation to grow up. If I were to spend only a fraction of this money on the supply system, the social care system, the psychological circles of the health care system, it would be a lot easier, but I can tell you one thing: it's more important what kind of a future generation in mental and psychological condition will be than how many people there are. Yes, that is a huge difference, because it may be that three children are born into one family, two of whom, since they are not raised, will be virtually unfit for everything, and the third, who may actually be a man of value or will leave, or it will be his job to support the other two, because, as we can see, there is absolutely no desire for society to create a healthy future generation. I would also like to say that, as long as the universal declaration of human rights and the provisions of the New York Convention on the Rights of the Child in Hungary do not fully apply in the legislation, and, if you don't like it, after 30 years there is still an abundant deficit, any family protection action plan will unfortunately not have the right effect. Of course, a Member of Parliament must support everything that makes family life better, but this system of instruments that you have chosen is completely inadequate. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2019-03-19-58	Thank you very much. This is Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, an independent Member. Before you begin your contribution, I welcome the students of Árpád High School in Óbuda and the teachers' colleagues on your behalf. I'm glad you're here. Good afternoon. Here you go.
u2019-03-19-59	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I am convinced that the demographic problem is not an important problem, but the most important problem. I will not call other things important or equal in political tactics. I believe that the future of Hungary depends on the fact that we have managed to reverse our demographic emergency age, and if there are not enough Hungarian children, then there is absolutely no need to talk about anything else. There is absolutely no need to talk about Hungarian soil, it is completely unnecessary to talk about health care and education, because the basis for everything is to change the trend that has unfortunately been affecting our country since 1980. With this responsibility, I would like to say our proposals, forwarding that the representatives of the Hungarian Movement will, of course, support this proposal, but at the same time we urge further action. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán set the goal for 2030 that the government would want to achieve a fertility rate of 2.1 in Hungary, which is an ambitious goal even if this objective is to abandon the ten million-dollar truncated Hungary. It hurts to see this and it hurts to say it, and it can be even more painful to accept it for pro-government representatives, but at the same time I would like to point out that during the last nine years, during the Fidesz administration, the fertility rate has increased from 1,25 to 1,49, so it is an increase of 0.25. To reach 2.1, the rate of this increase over the remaining 11 years would have to be roughly tripled. So we would have to triple the rate of growth in 11 years to be a growing country again, which is no small task, and to do so, perhaps even the pro-government representatives will see that there is still little that has been put forward. I would also like to comment on the subject of a less child, and I would like to show a specific number of reasons why it is wrong, why it is unprofessional and seriously insensible, if we look at this measure and indicator. If we look at the number of 40-year-old women in Hungary now, in 2019, I say 40-year-olds because in terms of fertility, women are 40-year-olds and 45-year-olds, there are 81 thousand 40-year-old women in Hungary. [[14.20]] Ten years from now, it's going to be 35 grand in 2029. So if now, say, every 40-year-old woman had two children, that would be 162 thousand children, while ten years later every 40-year-old woman would have four children, so she would have twice as many children, even 140,000. But in the previous example, society could not set itself on a growing path of development, so it could not reproduce itself, yet we could cover it by saying that 162 thousand people are born, everything is fine, while in the other case it would double itself per generation, and then there would be fewer births, of course. So, yes, it is expected that, next year, fewer children will be born, and in five years' time, fewer children will be born again than they are now, but still, the fertility rate may increase, and that is what we should consider, how many children a mother will have, how many children she will bring into the world, because if it exceeds 2.0, then we are a growing nation again. It doesn't matter how many mothers there are in a given year, if they exceed 2, we're on a growing orbit again. There was no mention of the age of mothers when the first child was born. Infertility has been mentioned by several opposition colleagues, this is very important, and it is also related to the extension of mother's age, as perhaps few people know it, but for example, at the age of 30, a woman is having her first child now on average or almost 30 years of age, Hungarian mothers are three and a half times more barren than the same mother would have been at 20. So, yes, infertility and the fact that this now affects hundreds of thousands of young Hungarians is related to the fact that age has been extended to this extent when the first child is born. And then I'm talking about the first child. In order to have a large family, it would be even more important to encourage young people to have at least the first child in their early 20's. This effort is not included in this action plan. So I would like to urge the government to be aware of this, that because of women's involvement in higher education in the first place, the extension of age is also a problem with which the 21st edition of the 21st edition of the European Parliament and the Council adopted a directive on the protection of the rights of persons with regard to the rights of persons with regard to the rights of persons with regard to the rights of persons with regard to the rights of persons with regard to the rights of persons with regard to the rights of persons with regard to the rights of persons with disabilities. Our country must also face it in the century, and it must be answered in some way. For example, Mary Kopp gave an answer by creating family-friendly higher education. I ask the Secretary of State that the government study these developed proposals and take steps to make this as widespread as possible in Hungary. Not only infertility, but health risks are also increasing if the mother's age is more advanced and the chances of conception are also reduced, so that the life in question can be conceived later, the child in question, the older a woman, which is why it would be important to do so in time, and if the creation of family-friendly higher education could help to conceive the first child sooner, it would also mean a relapse in terms of infertility, as I mentioned, so we could save even budgetary resources. Another issue is the reconciliation of family and work, in which we have been in the dark for a long time, the proportion of mothers who want to stay at home, the proportion they want to return to the labour market in Hungary. A representative survey has now been carried out in this regard, perhaps the biggest good news of which is that only 5 percent said that they do not want to have children at all. This is not the case in Europe, so the awareness of childlessness is unfortunately much higher in Western Europe than in Hungary. We are doing well in this regard, although I think it would be necessary to convince this 5% that they do not know what they will miss if they do not have children. Of the remaining 95 percent, 70 percent of mothers say that they want to work alongside their family, they want to return to work, but they only consider this feasible with one and two children. So here is a huge halt: the reconciliation between working and 70 percent mothers and the large family is not a perspective for them in Hungary today. We have huge reserves in this regard, that if we succeed with more flexible employment and, by the way, with the development of crèches... because I am opening parentheses, the government promised a similar kindergarten development in 2016, of which little has been achieved, but I do not want to be malicious, we hope that this plan can be taken more seriously now. So, if we manage to reconcile the large family with the labour market in this respect, then the government can facilitate the birth of another desired Hungarian child. I would like to say one more thing here, in terms of equal opportunities for men and women, it is important to stress that this is not a pay disadvantage for women. A childless woman can have almost the same career as a man, who, by the way, did not usually stop in his career or salary when a child was born. But a mother, in her salary and career, has a significant setback in having a child. It is not a pay disadvantage for women, it is a pay disadvantage for mothers, which is quite different, and it requires entirely different proposals for solutions. Gender is not punished by the labour market, but by motherhood. It's a murder thing. It's a shame. And to do so, we need to give answers that will put an end to this whole shame in our entire society, and that mentality will be wiped out. It is very important to be aware that it is not sexuality that is a disadvantage, but motherhood, which is a much more serious problem. I still have to talk about the issue that comes out of the demographic portrait of the KSH, as the head of the KSH Institute for Population Research said that fertility has increased primarily among mothers who have completed up to eight general courses, who typically deliver their first child at a teenage age. We can see, therefore, that there has been absolutely no reduction in children's livelihoods, despite the fact that most of the government's measures actually link family support to work, this is correct, but this has not been contained. Here, I would call on Béla Hell, who writes in his book The End Days of Europe: "The loss of population is the problem of Europe as a whole, and while in the eastern EU countries this issue is aggravated by the gypsy issue, the rapidly growing number and integration problems of the admitted Muslim population in the richer Western states make the issue a priority problem. These problems have been felt by the broad masses for several years in everyday life, but the dominant media and opinion-forming spiritual circles, just as at home on the issue of Gypsy, have forbidden their sincere discussion and have accused those who dared to raise them. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like you to spare me now from continuing this debate at this level, which Béla Hell spoke about, because in the same book, the university teacher, who was elected by Fidesz as a constitutional judge, points out that the number of souls of Gypsy is now doubling from generation to generation, and if we add the conclusion of the fertility ratio, then we can see that the number of Hungarians is still almost halving. So these demographic trends are related to Gypsy and Hungarians, which is why Mi Hazank Movement proposes that all family support from the third child be linked to employment. This is what supports responsible childbearing and would be a responsible government attitude. And I would like to add a few more misconceptions about what else has been said in this debate, and what is often heard back from voters, too. One was affected by a number of opposition fellow Members: the standard of living, the issue of wages and the relationship between childbearing. I would warn against expecting too much from the fact that a higher standard of living will result in the birth of more children. We just need to look at ourselves, we are sitting here in 199, with the law guaranteeing that our basic salary is three times the average wage, but even if it were up to us, we wouldn't reach the 2.1 fertility rate that Prime Minister set out to do, so it doesn't stand up for us to guarantee a higher standard of living or three times the average wage. [[14.30]] At the same time, I would like to use not only such narrow examples; the opposite is true in comparison with the regions of Hungary. The highest standard of living in Budapest is the lowest fertility and the highest fertility in the northern lowland region. Worldwide, if we look at the fact that the standard of living in African countries is more important than in Hungary, there are still many more children, but in terms of Europe or northern civilization, we can say that, for example, in Germany, where people live a much higher standard of living, there is even worse fertility rates, and even in Japan, which is one of the most developed countries, there is significantly lower fertility than in Germany. So, in itself, it is expected that even more children will be born from an increase in wages or a higher standard of living, so I would warn against it. Obviously, it is worth talking about the poverty risk of a large family or having children in a given society, but the fact that more children are born as the standard of living increases is in itself, the statistics defy. For each Hungarian child born, we should be grateful to his parents, and this is the change of mind that I would also like to draw your attention to. How honored is a mother who is at home with her baby today? How many times do you hear that he doesn't do anything? You must hear it more often than thank you very much for taking care of your child. Until we can make it acceptable and even appreciated in society to make it a part of a successful woman's mother and show that success in motherhood is also a part of life, happiness, and we regard it as honorable action and work, we will not be able to move away from the disastrous situation in which we have been in since 1980. I would ask my fellow Members to pay attention to this, and also try to appreciate mothers and fathers in their daily lives. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-03-19-60	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We now have a row of two-minute speakers, first of all Mrs Anett Bősz, independent.
u2019-03-19-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to comment because I wish to respond to my fellow Member, Mónika Dunai. I think that when we talk about the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, we would also be pleased if significant progress were to be made in preventing domestic violence. We know that crime here is getting worse as the first crime takes place within the family. In this, the Hungarian institutional system, both the police and the justice system, is inaccessible and reacts very badly, reacts very poorly, and very often there are far greater tragedies that could otherwise be prevented by, say, the appropriate institution of detention. So I myself think that taking seriously and incorporating into our institutional systems the Istanbul Convention for domestic violence would be a very forward-looking step. I would like to respond to what the Member said: sharing the lawn between the two parents. In this, the Hungarian Liberal Party proposes that we help young parents with fiscal incentives to decide that it is also financially worthwhile for them, so that they should not suffer a financial disadvantage because, let's say, due to the pay gap in the case, the mother decides that she will stay at home with the baby all the time, because the family will not lose income. This is the proposal for a resolution of the Hungarian Liberal Party. One more short addition to the rest of the time. Gyed extra is basically not a bad initiative, but this requires brakes and counterweights on the labour market that prevent mothers from suffering legal disadvantages at work. This is what my fellow Member has just spoken about. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I'm out of time. Thank you for listening.
u2019-03-19-62	Mr. Dániel Z. Carpathian Congressman Jobbik!
u2019-03-19-63	Mr President, Dear House, Although I still have one question in the air that I would still like to have an answer for people with emigrated status who can still be reached after the change of the CSOK, I think it is much more important and of a wide range of concern to what happens after the government's reduction of housing savings will replace it. After all, you may agree with me, Madam State Secretary and my fellow Members, that a lot of people have collected the part they need for the CSOK precisely with LTP, with housing savings, with Fundamenta and others, because they couldn't even put down their own share; I have to speak for a typical Hungarian life situation, so I have to speak for the young Hungarians. By removing this housing savings and state aid leg from the government, countless young people are in an impossible situation if they want to use, say, a CSOK. But I would also like to remind my fellow Member that 80 percent of people living in Hungarian condominiums, i.e. 80 percent of the investment in condominiums, could have been made from such forms of housing savings, whether it be a boiler change, but whether it is a consequence of expanding the home or creating a space where the desired child can be born. Overall, I see that if a young couple wants to start their own life in Hungary, they encounter brutal rental prices, there is no government intervention; they meet with an abolished housing savings allowance, there was government intervention here, but it is negative; overall, I do not see the realistic alternative that someone can start their life together with someone on average, say, a rental or a rental. I support the fact that everyone has their own property, but that in-between 10-15 years is simply missing from your world, and we do not get the answers to how a Hungarian young couple in a typical situation can get their own property. That is the answer, therefore, because without it complete social groups are left out of the family protection system. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-19-64	There are still two-minute speakers, but on behalf of the government, Secretary of State Novák asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2019-03-19-65	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Dear House, I would just like to respond to a few things that have been said in the past, not in minutes, but in a longer time in the debate, and I am really trying to stay in the debate with those who have stayed here at all, because there are also people who tell and leave, but we are used to it. However, I would also like to respond to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm that I do not think that we should mistake anyone by not knowing the rules, because there is a debate about a legislative amendment, and there is a debate about a law submitted and the related amendments to the law, and everyone can know this, but everyone can know the text of the regulations already published in the Hungarian Gazette. So I suggest that anyone who may not have been informed and has come to today's debate should do so and be informed. Please also give this to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm that, if you are interested in the detailed rules, even if you are so interested in taking part in the debate, you can read them first and then we can discuss them in substance and then talk about it. I think it's worth helping all of us to have constructive, meaningful dialogue, conversation, at least knowing the facts, or taking so much trouble to learn about them. Indeed, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát had one question left in the air several times. On the one hand, in the CSOK regulation, I can say that access to CSOK is regulated in a consistent manner with the European Union, so that legislation is and is in place in accordance with EU standards. I also agree with your assessment of the situation that young people are on their own feet, and that when they have found their mates, it is precisely the starting time when they can break away from the parents' house, and if they already have a commitment and know who they want to spend their lives with, then they can take this first step. I think that's why the baby shower support that we're about to introduce is so special, because this is exactly the starting support that you can give to young people. If you also think about the fact that, let us say, a young couple's margin can grow by 10 million forints if they know that they want to start a family together, and that they can use this ten million forints completely freely if that is what is needed in the family, then they can support their family members, if that is what is needed, then they can create a start-up capital from this, just the part of themselves that you referred to, this is an opportunity that has not been experienced in Hungary. This means that even if 10 million HUF is used, even if the first child is not on the road, it should not exceed 50,000 HUF per month, so it is already available to young people in addition to an average payment. So it can also be said that for an average young couple in a living situation, this option will be open from 1 July 2019. [[14.40]] And if this baby shower support is used when their first child is conceived and the first three months of pregnancy have passed, then they can keep it entirely without having to pay a penny. So they receive an extra HUF 10 million, a raise comes the potential HUF 10 million of CSOK and up to HUF 15 million of interest-supported loans, of which we can release up to HUF 4-5 million, depending on how many children they take. So they don't have to moan as much as they do if they don't start a family. So what I can say is that if young people decide on the future together in a responsible way, they will receive support for this, thanks to this baby shower support, and also thanks to the family protection action plan, which has never been done before. I don't want to go into every detail because we've talked about a lot of things. I would like to thank Mrs Dóra Dúró for helping to make the picture even clearer, and they agreed with the assessment of the situation that you have brought here. Indeed, I did not mention it, but there was still much about the consequences of the extension of the date of childbearing. Today, women have children in Hungary after the age of 30 on average, and this has a strong connection to the fact that they also have to face fertility problems in many cases. We just talked about this. We also agree that family-friendly higher education is also an important task in which we still have the potential to make progress. At the nursery, I would add so much to what the congresswoman has said that we have actually made a commitment in the development of nursery. On the one hand, we have increased our level of ambition by talking about 60,000 cradle seats, now 70,000 cradle seats. On the other hand, the crèche system has been transformed into a multi-actor system, allowing several entrepreneurs into this kind of nursery care, making it more flexible, and making it possible to place their child in a nursery in Hungary, depending on whether someone lives in, say, a large city or in a densely populated district of Budapest or in a small rural settlement or in a small village. And let us add that the tasks of the municipalities in this area have been significantly increased: in the past, only in settlements with a population of over 10 thousand people had to operate a nursery, and now this care must be provided wherever there is a need for it, or there are at least 40 children under the age of three. And we also significantly increased nursery funding, making it task-based. So I trust that this kindergarten construction has started, along with the fact that I see even more opportunities in your grandparents' children in this sense. I think it's very good for children to be in a family circle at this age, so in three years. If we can give you as much help as possible, I think it's really forward-looking. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-19-66	Thank you. We will continue with the two-minute speeches. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, KDNP, please.
u2019-03-19-67	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I only pressed the button because I would like to convey the indignation of several of our fellow Members towards the Jobbik faction and Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. I don't know if Dániel Z. Kárpát is promoting a fair debate in the faction. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Absolutely.]] Or we're the only ones he wants accounted for in this respect. Andrea Varga-Damm constantly questions the debate and rushes in before speaking and then, after speaking, rushes out and does not wish to take part in the debate. However, the fib that I should use the words of Dániel Z. Kárpat would be good to correct what he said about the concept of family, and it is very important that we recall the article of the Fundamental Law of Hungary L) L as Lajos:, Hungary protects the institution of marriage as a voluntary community between a man and a woman, and the family as the foundation for the survival of the nation. Family relationships are based on marriage and parent-child relationships. We hope that the congresswoman will be more prepared to come to the hall, for example from the Fundamental Law, and not to say any untruths by which she deceives both the audience and the voters. Thank you very much. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-19-68	Congressman Antal Csárdi, LMP, please.
u2019-03-19-69	Thank you very much. We have said that this is okay with regard to the intentions of the whole proposal, but let's face it and ask my fellow members of the Government to approach their own proposal with proper criticism, a lot of people will fall out here. To give just one example in view of the two-minute framework: Secretary of State Katalin Novák said that she is a young couple with an average salary. What about someone who doesn't make a living on average? Or does one of them earn significantly less than an average salary? Why do you have to let them go? Why is the poor person not an important social layer for the Hungarian government, now admitted, because the families with the average income are clearly in the focus right now. Why is the economically weaker social group now forgotten for many times? Why are poor Hungarian families disadvantaged in your eyes? And, I'm sorry, let me give you one more example, and I'll come back to that later. Technically, it is clear that you will not be able to avail yourself of the aid, who is registered as a poor debtor in the KHR system. 'Cause it doesn't matter if it's a passive or active KHR list. What does that mean? This means that all of the foreign exchange credit victims have been excluded at the same time. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's right.]] Why? My respectful question, Madam Secretary: why? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-19-70	Thank you very much. We are now returning to the speakers that have been announced. The first of these will be Congresswoman Márta Mátrai, Housekeeper of the Parliament, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2019-03-19-71	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, T/5132 on the amendments to the law necessary for the implementation of the Family Protection Action Plan The Commission intends to complete the scope of the benefits and grants provided for in the Action Plan. It contains a corresponding regulation and an enabling provision. However, I find it regrettable that, in recent hours, some or almost entirely, criticisms have been expressed by the opposition about the introduction of a family protection action plan. Ladies and gentlemen, If we look back at the years before 2010, then, in short, we can face the following: families could expect little support from the state; each year started with price increases, with high inflation and austerity. For the Hungarian families, the Balliberal governments gave no opportunity, during the 12 years of their government they gave only alms, they kept most of the people on welfare. Unemployment, austerity, high inflation, skyrocketing public debt is your balance sheet, honourable Members. So they're asking for your criticism of the action plan. In line with the first question of the eighth national consultation held in November-December 2018 and the 99.18 percent positive response of the citizens, the Hungarian Government intends to remedy the population loss not by immigration but with the stronger support of families. The eighth national consultation received 1 million 382 thousand questionnaires. This was the third largest national consultation, which shows and justifies to all of us the importance of the whole country's family situation, childbearing and demography. In accordance with the will of the respondents, the government therefore wants to protect the measures it has taken for the benefit of the families over the past nine years. After 2010, the new system of family support has finally given rise to several cycles of beneficial effects. However, all commoners agree that instead of the compulsory resettlement of migrants forced by Brussels, [[Zsolt Gréczy: Oh, my God!]] support the Hungarian families. [[14.50]] Hungary has created a high level of family policy. Given the flexibility of the family support system, the first results show a clear improvement. The Hungarians once again believe in their future, we have established a national unity on the matter of families. Mr. Prime Minister said in his traditional year-end speech. He announced the family protection action plan here and pointed out that this is the Hungarians' response, not immigration. Ladies and gentlemen, On the one hand, a number of people have already mentioned this to the family protection action plan before me, which will enter into force from 1 July 2019, and these parts are as follows. The first is to support the childbearing of young married people. What does that mean? Ten million HUF free-of-interest, free-use credit, which is required by the mother's age and one member of the family has at least three years of insurance or student rights. Couples who claim support after 12 weeks of pregnancy do not need to start paying. In that case, the repayment shall be suspended for three years. After the birth of the second child, the capital debt, as stated by the secretary of state in her expo, will be released by 30% and the repayment will be postponed by another three years. Finally, in the event of the birth of the third child, the remainder of the aid will be entirely released or released. This opportunity can be used for three years by families and future mothers. The second is the expansion of the home creation programme. This support scheme can also be used to purchase housing used from July and to create homes for people living in small settlements. The third is the reduction of mortgage loans. From 1 July, the mortgage debt of the two children will be reduced by HUF 1 million and the third child will receive HUF 4 million. The government also wants to help with the car purchase of large family members, by providing HUF 2.5 million from 1 July to children with at least three children if they buy a new car for at least seven people. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian people have repeatedly expressed their desire to remain Hungarian. They love their own culture and customs. They don't want to live by other customs. They keep their tongues, and they want to give their children this respectable order of life. This will be successful in today's selfish world if we support families, intelligently raised children, by encouraging childbearing and protecting mothers. This is the spirit of the civil government's family protection plans and measures, and when we vote on the details of it, that is what must be decided. I am convinced that the culture of life and the order of national survival are reflected in these measures. Everyone's conscience decides how to answer that. I urge my fellow Members to support the bill before us. Thank you for your attention, as this is in the interest of all of us and the Hungarian nation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-19-72	Thank you very much. Mr. Dániel Z. Carpathian, Mr. Jobbik. Here you go.
u2019-03-19-73	Mr President, Dear House, If we want to find out where it would be best to intervene in the family support system, we have repeatedly said that in the case of one child children, it would be best to act with motivations that would make them feel part of this system. Especially because if we look at the data of the Demographic Portrait in 2018, which contains roughly the data of the past eight years twice or even more, we can see that since the turn of the millennium, the decrease in the proportion of the first child to their share has been observed from 92% to 84 percent. This means that the proportion of childless people has increased from 8 to 16 percent. There is a decrease, although fortunately only minimal, in the number of two children, and from 75% to 67 percent, the number of those who have a second child after the first one has decreased. Our great luck is that the situation of large families is stable, so we can say that they are pulling this whole system on their backs in terms of the fact that there is no more falling and no more deep-flying. I think that although the wage level is a very important issue, at least second, second pillar is the solution to the housing segment. For this reason, it has already been said today that the number of newly built real estates or the number of apartments transferred is alarming. If the current pace continues, we can say that every 200-250 years the current Hungarian real estate stock will turn up, which, in the case of a panel house in Békásmegyer, does not present a bright vision. We also see that, while in 2005, the number of built properties transferred in the year was still over 41 thousand, we managed to get this up to 18,000 last year with huge struggles, which is a major step forward, compared to, say, the conditions of 14th and 15th, where 7-8 thousand data were stacked behind each other. Obviously, the TEMPORary Influence of the CSOK is involved in this. My problem with him is that it can typically work upwards from the upper middle class, and it's a mass of new-built properties, while there's a huge empty real estate base, about half a million, typically in a degraded state. But if we could bring only one-tenth of it into this system in the form of a rental, it would give many young Hungarians real life opportunities, and we did not give up the rental program, as we mentioned. On the other hand, I would like to make substantive and substantive amendments to the CSOK amendment. I would like to thank Mrs State Secretary for her substantive response to the CSOK that can be obtained by immigrants. At the same time, there are two more problems that I'd like to modify. One would be to extend not only the preferential loan for the properties used, but also to add the amount of the aid to this in a follow-up system, if necessary, stepwise, if over several years, over several years. I think there would be room for manoeuvre here, and this would give the domestic construction industry another boost, for example, in the direction of reaching the 40,000 properties transferred each year. This allows for a 100-year exchange of real estate. So the residents of this panel house in Frog County still can't breathe, but that vision might be a little more rosy. I would like to add that I would definitely consider it appropriate to introduce some ceiling not only for the extension of the CSOK or for the whole CSOK, but also for a number of family support elements. Using the example of CSOK, I am interested in your opinion that, say, in the case of a fork of 150 million or 200 million, it is worth giving us a family home-building discount. I say we at least open this debate; I am obviously leaning towards gender. So what I'm saying is that I don't necessarily want to give you the same amount of support over certain wealth or certain property values as I do for those who really need it, but I think this is at least a point worth discussing. In some sensible, sum-like ceiling, I would definitely draw this, not primarily in terms of income, but rather in terms of the value of the property. Clearly, the aim would be to push away the discounters for investment purposes a little further from those who are really in need of this discount, and obviously we are also serving demographic aspects. Finally, another question has been raised on which no clear answer has been received, at least to make the family allowance and many other frozen forms of family support follow-up to inflation. I am not as brave as some opposition fellow Members, I would not say that these should be increased by 500 to 100 or 400 percent immediately. I am very much in favour of the line management that prioritizes easier access to labour income rather than receiving support from Hungarian families under the right of the subject. So if someone asks me about the unconditional basic income, I'm gonna vote no so hard that this button is gonna rip right out in front of me. So I am clearly in favour of the direction that we should make work income easier to access. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] But there are certain cases where, at least by making family support forms a follow-up to inflation, we can help decent Hungarian people who, by reason of their state of health, are in a situation, for example, due to the unexpected deterioration of their social conditions, due to a foreign exchange-credit crisis, that we can provide them with meaningful and vital help, or by making these forms follow-up to inflation. I think it's a way to balance this system. Believe me, the demographic positive consequences of this are, if not within a year or two, but half a decade. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] [[15.00]]
u2019-03-19-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. We've got two-minute comments coming up. I give the floor to Antal Csárdi, Head of the Group, Congressman.
u2019-03-19-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to respond to the comments made by Mrs Mátrai Márta. Congresswoman, I would like you to understand precisely that I do not want to hurt you, but you have become a prisoner of your written text, because it is not what you have written on the paper. We have said, not only I, but several of my fellow opposition Members, that yes, we believe that this family protection action plan contains eligible elements, and, yes, there are forward-looking steps in this action plan. However, I really think it is our duty and responsibility to say that you have an obligation and a responsibility to reflect on the critical remarks that arise in relation to this proposal. I keep quiet that that is why it would have been better if there had been a bill here, if we had been given a draft bill as a finished substance, rather than a mandate for a subsequent regulation. [[Katalin Novak: The decree is ready!]] When we talk about family protection, I think we have a lot to talk about. When we talk about family protection, I think we need to talk about employee rights, because we also need to protect the family by not letting them overwork the parents, because it makes a family work because we're together and we spend time together, we spend valuable time together. I think, yes, the solution to the problem of foreign exchange loans is once again an essential element of this family protection system, because families in need have been waiting for years to protect them from banks and not to conclude EBRD pacts. I think, given the fact that the housing prices in Budapest are there [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] that a 60 square meter apartment will cost 35 million forints, then a lot of problems will arise during the credit award. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-19-76	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader, Congressman. I'll give the floor to Congressman Peter Hoppál for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2019-03-19-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Given the process of the debate, I feel that the speeches of our honourable opposition fellow Members follow the theory that they are using some kind of critical expression [[Antal Csárdi: Excuse me.]] to try to find points in this package of support programmes which are considered to be few. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: This is called democracy!]] Congressman Csárdi spoke in two rounds in a row. In one of his two-minute comments, he said that this bill package was disqualified towards certain social segments, and the last time he said that the criticism was not received by the government. I felt exactly the opposite, as Mrs Secretary of State has made use of the possibility that, in relation to the proposal in detail in her expoze, after several hours of debate, she has already formulated the government's answer to your suggestions. So I see exactly the signs of a constructive debate. For your part, the way they said it should be little or more, it's just like the "Thirty." What's 30? How much what? I say thirty, you say forty. So I understand that from the point of view of the opposition position, we should not commend any excellent government referral, but at least the smallest common multiples might be worth looking for. By the way, our fellow Member Z. Kárpát's professionally prepared speeches have shown that he is looking for the opportunity to do so. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] To find the merits of this proposal. I think that's the right direction for the debate, and I think they'd better stay in this field because of their own voters. Have a good day. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-19-78	Thank you very much. I'm just telling you that in this two-minute circle, I can't give you a fidesz comment again, and then in the next round. We have a pre-notified speaker, Mr Vinnai Győző, Fidesz.
u2019-03-19-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Before I begin my speech, I do not want to praise Dániel Z. Carpathian anymore, lest he be excluded from the faction. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't get me fired!]] I can see the constructive debate, too, and this is already a good course, in my opinion, if we talk about what else could be added to this family protection action plan, what more could be put forward for support. Family is the most permanent bond in history, real value, the foundation of society, the pledge of the future of our country. Strengthening families, supporting families, removing barriers to the birth of children, supporting young people's start-ups, recognising the efforts of large families, strengthening a family-friendly approach is our shared responsibility. Dear fellow Members, may I refer to a saying nearly a hundred years ago. After World War I, we were still in a difficult situation, after Trianon, and then there was this saying, "One for the mother, one for the father, one for the country." This was then the starting point of the family model with three children, because Hungary was in a very difficult economic and social situation and had to recover. I think, if you look at demography, the first time after World War II was in the late 1970s, in the early 1980s, the writings of Gyula Fekete drew attention to this. This is exactly what my colleague Sándor Lezsák and I were talking about, and he gave me these writings in a small collection. I would recommend to all, not just my opposition, pro-government fellow Members, how responsible Gyula Fekete wrote about this demographic problem. I don't want to say it, but how do I say it? It's worth reading. And here I am at the core of my comment, that in mentality, as Madam Secretary said, Hungarian young people are family-oriented: they make life-long decisions when they start their lives, get married or get married, then they make a decision. The most important thing for us or for the government and for the pro-government representatives is to promote this decision, promote a positive decision and give birth to the children they want. Each survey shows that they want two children or mister's pardons, even more than three or four children, but somehow these children are not born; there are many components. So I think the government is doing its job and helping these children to be born. There have been many debates about fertility rates or indicators, but no one has ever said how much the EU average is and where we came from. It was 1.23 in 2011, and we are now around 1.5, as the Secretary of State has said, but no one has ever said that this is about the EU average of 1.58. So there are those in the EU who do better, of course, and Hungary is doing better, and some are doing less well. So what's this family policy for? What good is predictable and consistent, constantly expanding family policy, specifically this family protection action plan? It is good for helping young Hungarians, young Hungarian families, to make a good decision, to make a life-long decision: to ensure their housing, if they work, to have a family tax relief; this is also constantly expanding, so family tax relief after home creation. To promote employment, for example, in the case of women, ged extra means this, and to follow the example in Europe, perhaps in the world, that we are also trying to introduce full-time motherhood, or that if one raises four children, that woman will be free for the rest of her life. [[15.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to speak briefly about two areas, because there has been so much going on. One of them is the discount car shopping program for large families. Why is that important? After all, where there are many children and there are many children around us, that is a source of joy, but it is more difficult to move and move. Therefore, it is important that they have a car, a car for large families, so that they can all go, whether together, to a joint program, and that is why large families with three or more children can benefit from the support that has already been discussed today. Forints 2.5 million can be used, but not more than half of the gross purchase price of the car, because there is a cheaper car that may not correspond to this. But if someone wants to buy more expensive, they can, because there's no upper limit. And the process of applying is very simple. This HUF 2.5 million does not have to be paid, since the request is made by the State Treasury customer services or government windows, and the State Treasury will issue the decision establishing the grant after the eligibility criteria have been laid down, so that only the remaining amount will have to be paid by large family members. And maybe this hasn't been mentioned yet. That's why we need a driver's license. But if the claimant doesn't have a driver's license, but his spouse does, they can still submit the claim. This is very important. You can't sell it in three years, so you can't get rid of it. New car, if I hadn't told you, and single-parent families could claim this seven-man car. Ladies and gentlemen, In short, I would like to talk about one more thing, which is a rural constituency in my own constituency, and I am sensing from North-East Hungary. The kindergarten development program was very good. It was very good that preschooling became mandatory in 15 years of age. That's not money. There are children, children raised in disadvantaged families, for whom preschool programs at the age of three are also an attitudeal cultural leap because they see something they may not have seen in the family. I am not criticising families, but I would like to draw attention to the disadvantaged situation. In the same family protection action plan, the cradle development program, for which there is a great deal of demand, at least in consultation with the mayors of several settlements, would like to expand a nursery or build a new nursery. By the way, this kindergarten development program has not yet been completed, but the fact that there are nearly 50,000 crèches in the daycare center, and we want to increase it by 10 grand a year, and by 2022 it will make it easier for women to work and get back to work. To conclude, let me refer to a saying that goes our way, in our county, in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, and now I look only at the opposition by accident - : to talk lying down, to act is different. Action must be taken, this family protection action plan proves the government's capacity to act, not a closed process, but a programme to be expanded. I think that the opposition should also acknowledge that this is one of the most successful programmes of the government. Congratulations. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Intercoms from the pro-government benches: Bravo! Bravo!]]
u2019-03-19-80	Thank you very much, Congressman Vinnai. I give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs, Jobbik.
u2019-03-19-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It's insane to do nothing if we can't do anything about it. The great politician, the great owner of the century, Count Miklós Esterházy in Hungary that fought the battle of life and death against the Turks. If we are looking at the population struggle, this demographic disaster, then we must say that the nation is really fighting a life-and-death battle. We, the Jobbik faction, are sure to approach this issue from such a basic position. I would very much ask my fellow pro-government Members that if they hear criticism, they should not take it as a criticism, not as a denial of the problem itself. It's not like that at all. If we make criticisms, they happen because we do not think these measures are sufficient to stop the process of mourning, that rushing down a terrible slope towards extinction, which will bring the Hungarian nation into the abyss. You can be quite sure that's what we think, that's how we feel. If Congresswoman Selmeczi started with a quote from Tamás Cseh, then let me start with a quote that might support what I have said so far. Mihály Babits used to say that in the West, when many, many decades ago, well, this problem is not new, he wrote, "You have to talk, you have to cry, you have to cry, you have to cry until someone finds the defense. Once the Hungarians are destroyed, they will die unmemorable, unmistakable. Nobody barks at us. The crow doesn't scream after us either. All that we've done and created, it's gone, like it's never happened. That's what it's about. This is how we look at it, constructively, and if I bring my narrower Patria here, Somogyország, then I would be able to quote the statement made by Bishop Béla Balázs five years ago, who told the Somogyi Hírlap that, a hundred years after the extinction of the Ormania, death came to Somogy County, as they bury much more than there are baptisms or births. Indeed, population loss, ageing and speaking frankly will be the basis for ethnic restructuring in the 21st century. The fate of Hungary of the century. If we look at the demographic trends that are affecting us, what a terrible population decline we are facing, then the prediction that, unfortunately, in 50 years' time, there will be hardly 6 people in this country, and in very good cases 7 million people. Now our young compatriots make up about 20 percent of society, in a lifetime, by the middle of the century, this ratio will be one third. We here, within the walls of the Parliament, must adapt to these conditions, and we should continue policy accordingly, and we should adapt to this, and see these processes as my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Karpat, has missed and asked for these prognosiss to be carried out. Not only with a few years of outlook, but also for 20-30-40 years, since we should not think in four-year cycles, because the fate of the Hungarian nation deserves much more than that. It is important to see that the most dynamic layers of people migrate from Hungary and we are very happy to see the number of births in Hungary increase by a few thousand people, if any, by 10,000 people per year. But how much easier would it have been to keep that 800,000 young people home? [[Moore from the pro-government benches. Intercoms: That's not true! It's not like that!]] and create conditions for them not to seek prosperity abroad, and not every sixth or seventh Hungarian child will see the light of day somewhere in Western Europe. In addition to such processes, human resources will indeed be appalledly weakened, and this will be accompanied by a clear reduction in investment opportunities, an incredible reduction in economic opportunities, as if we are talking about a one-third elderly ratio in a few decades' time, we will also have to look at the average rate of retirement now and what the purchasing power of those pensions will be, in addition to current wages. It's obviously a shameless low. If we are to project a picture of such a country, which, once again, I say, is very well missed by my fellow Member, then it is better not to think about, let us say, what life is there for young people or members of the mid-generation, or what fate awaits in this country. It is quite clear that population and economic processes are intertwined with a thousand threads, and if we ignore this, but in many cases we stick our heads in the sand, relying on some political correctness, like a polar ostrich, then I believe that we cannot find adequate answers to these truly burning problems. [[15.20]] Well, if this was about ethnic restructuring, I'd like to mention János Cash's research. The University of Debrecen was brave enough to do this instead of the Hungarian state, and it turns out that in the last 30-35 years, the number of Gypsies in Hungary has indeed increased by two and a half times, from 400 thousand people in the early eighties to about 1 million people now. And even if we look at the fact that a significant part of Hungarian society is being recreated in this wreck society; and it must also be said that there is indeed an ethnicisation of deep poverty in Hungary, which we do not now argue is good or bad, obviously I do not say that it is good, but sociologists also say that this process, this phenomenon undoubtedly exists in Hungary. And if we recall the words of the former Prime Minister's Advisor, László Bogár, he said that the growing demographic explosive product of births can be seen in this wreck society, not in the target groups that you define first. But that was already mentioned here today, by the way. It would be good to see this, and to have some kind of normal response to these problems. And then the question must also be asked here: if everything goes on like this, then a few decades later, the support of the elderly who make up the majority of society would be on the shoulders of the Roma in Hungary, which, unfortunately, has been dependent on itself since the change of regime, due inter alia to the extreme liberal economic policy that destroyed the Hungarian economy in the years following the change of regime and in the previous years. If we acknowledge that, if you are not really afraid to ask these questions and discuss these problems here, then you should also give answers to them. And then here is my next question, ladies and gentlemen of the government, how this will work if the proportion of early school leavers among Roma youths is more than 60% of KSH data, so it is not us that the evil Jobbik is lying about this, but KSH data. The masses of these young people leave the world of public education without having any profession or degree, so the 21st edition of the 21st century. In the 20th century labour market, they are unable to fulfil the task that they should normally fulfil. I'm not sure it's always their fault, though, obviously, I will never say that there is no individual responsibility. Well, if we look at all these problems and how well our current education meets, let's say, the principles defined by Dr. József Benda are known, especially in the benches of KDNP, his name and his work, and on the edge of the abyss, which deals with our demographic destruction in Hungary, he asked where the pro-social forms of behaviour to which our young people should be educated at school are. Generations grow up here with young people looking at each other's backs for 12 years, and encouraging, positive cooperation as they do within the framework of the school, in the world of public education, they don't even hear about it. Obviously, this would require a new approach, which, unfortunately, we are still very, very far away from. But in my opinion, and in the opinion of József Benda, this could perhaps be one of the spiritual foundations for this country, this society, indeed, to look like it should look, and we can leave behind that anomaly, a process of loss of social trust, into which this society has now been pushed for decades. If we look at the weight of the problem: here it has been said by others, Madam Secretary of State said that this problem has been observed since. 81. Yes, the problem has been observed since 81. Just to show your severity, and to demonstrate that Jobbik is aware of the danger, and that it will be constructively related to these issues, the problem did not start in 81. That's when it became visible. A person who has dealt with demographic issues a little bit knows that there is a cycle shift, because young generations that are missing do not manifest themselves one or two in the form of shortages, but must wait for the previous generation to run out. And indeed, this population crisis had already begun in the late 1950s. In 54, 223,000 children were born in this country with about a hundred thousand deaths, and we have now reached the point of 130,000 deaths and less than 90,000 or so are born annually. So if we put all this side by side, then it is clear that in order to think in the dream of a country of 10 million, say, we would certainly have to have three children for 45,000 women who have entered into parenthood. You will see, my fellow Members, that this is an illusion. Unfortunately, and unfortunately, I must say that if you are not thinking about immigration, then we must say goodbye to the 10 million-dollar picture of Hungary. We certainly don't think about that. As I referred to in my speech before the agenda, Thilo Sarrazin, a former German Social Democratic politician, a head of the Bundesbank, published in August 2010 a large, 460-page book on the dangers of immigration. So if we were to be accused of this kind, I would very much ask my fellow government members, in the spirit of constructivity, not to throw these accusations at our heads, because if someone is not devious of this kind of population exchange, then it is certainly the Jobbik, because that is not what we consider to be the solution. [[Dr. Attila Tilki: And Ferenc Gyurcsány?]] My fellow Member, press the button, and then you can tell me why 86 thousand immigrants have been installed in Hungary in the last few years. That's a first-round answer. The fact is that in 1958 the total fertility rate first decreased below 2.1, so that would have ensured the level of reproduction in Hungary. It's not a story of '81, but we can go back a few more decades. And this, as I have just said, is a very good indicator of the weight of this terrible problem. In 1980 the population of Hungary peaked above 10 million 700 thousand people, and now there are only 9 million 800 thousand people living in this country. And I must add that, in addition to the above mentioned ethnic restructuring, without any judgement, but still present, I must say that the weight loss of Hungarians was astonishing, since in these decades at least one and a half million Hungarians have disappeared from the country, and there are no emigrants in it yet. If we really want to speak frankly, then, Madam Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the pro-government Membership, it must be recognised that parallel societies live side by side here in Hungary. There is a majority society that is beaten by incredibly sad statistical data with a shockingly poor demographic age, and, as has been said before me, there is a growing number of Gypsies, the issue of integration of which is only very, very serious, because if these proportions remain, and they persist, and even change more and more, if this integration does not happen, this country will end, and this population collapse will bury everyone, both Hungarian and Gypsy. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-19-82	Thank you very much, Congressman Ander Balázs. We're gonna have two-minute comments. First, Congressman Antal Csárdi, Head of the Group, LMP.
u2019-03-19-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, You've got it all wrong. When we make criticisms, our aim is precisely what my fellow Member said, so that when this proposal comes to a decision, these mistakes should not be included. Because it's worth seeing what the proposal is about, sorry, the mistake we're talking about. [[15.30]] I think that if the foreign exchange credit crisis had a lesson, then it was the need to learn to assess the long-term short-term risks in a realistic way. I think that in this respect, a borrowing should always be seen with this approach. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál intervenes.]] Excuse me, Mr. President, speak to the Fidesz colleague, because I don't understand what you're saying. [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2019-03-19-84	Go on, Mr. Team Leader.
u2019-03-19-85	What we're talking about is a 60 square meter apartment in Budapest, which is one and a half room or, say, an extra half room, 30 million forints. If I take into account 10 million of the CSOK and 10 million of the proposal, you will have to borrow 20 million forints. And it is necessary for the repayment of HUF 20 million... and here I would like to mention the principle of careful evaluation: the repayment of HUF 20 million without interest is HUF 90 thousand, with a 20-year term. I think that many families will be eliminated because they will not pass the credit award procedure; because the banks have made hundreds of press statements that the credit award procedure will take place according to their own internal rules. For example, this is a risk that the government has to deal with. And I think the government needs to handle the fact that less earning layers have access to such support. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-19-86	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm submitted a two-minute comment, Jobbik.
u2019-03-19-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Members have told me that more people have mentioned me here, and there is nothing more to do than to see on Parliament.hu how much difference is between you and I in Parliament, and then you will get the answer: the most speakers, the most present. Dear Secretary of State, The reason you can't judge how many times I'm in there and how many times I'm not, is because you come in here once a month, so you can't know how much time I'm here in other times. [[Katalin Novak: I didn't tell you about it.]] But why I went out there, I'll tell you. Week after week, a student of a university has a final or thesis written from my work and asked for help. [[Grumble in the ranks of Fidesz.]] And I was having this conversation right now. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]] Well, I'm so sorry, that's just the way it is. Someone has that kind of value, someone else, I'm sure, is very comforting when it comes to me. However, what I said was still based on real data, and whether you like it or not, this debate is now being built on fiction this afternoon. What you have said, Congresswoman, is not written in the proposal, nor has we seen the text of the Government decree to be issued by the government. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Open the Hungarian Gazette.]] We haven't seen it, and we don't know what kind of conditions the banks are going to have. This is all a promise, and we will see how it will turn out, surely in an election campaign it is very good that they want to protect Hungarian families in this way, with loans. I can only say one thing, and time and the future will decide. And when the outcome is not what you are predicting here in this House, I will ask you very much to apologize to society. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-19-88	Thank you very much. I will give the floor to Secretary of State Katalin Novák for two minutes.
u2019-03-19-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It's just that I don't let anything go. I would just like to say that if you teach students, at least if you take on this responsibility, then try to stick to the facts at some level. These are not government decrees to be published: they have appeared. Congresswoman, they're all public, they're all here. I suggest that you study the Hungarian Gazette sometimes, and I suggest that you be informed before taking part in such a parliamentary debate. The fact that he is physically present is not merited in itself, and it is also spiritually worthwhile to be present in such a debate. So I would ask that, if we are serious about each other and if we want to have a serious debate, we should not talk about our own ego here, but about concrete proposals, facts and facts. I would like to thank everyone who has been a partner in the meaningful constructive debate, in this sense we also welcome constructive criticisms, but we simply cannot make such comments without saying that there is a record in the minutes that we cannot tolerate without saying anything. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-19-90	I give the floor to Congressman István Happy for two minutes.
u2019-03-19-91	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Let's talk facts. The largest nation of the Carpathian Basin is Hungarian. I think that the bill that we are discussing here, and the responsibility for which we have been sent here by the voters, is about that after a thousand years the largest nation of the Carpathian Basin should still be Hungarian, and that the Carpathian Basin should be loud with Hungarian words. I think that any proposal that facilitates this is very important and must be discussed. Obviously, there is a responsibility for the government, which compiles the budget and is responsible for its efforts to make its own proposals. I am pleased that some of the opposition's speakers, I would not highlight Mr Z. Carpathian, because in the end he is really excluded from the Jobbik faction, but at least some people from the opposition said that they might support this proposal. I suggest you all support it. The fact is that there are many ways to do so for the Hungarian people, for the Hungarian nation. But one of the most important actions is to do it for the future. And the only way we can do that for the future is to help families and Hungarian families have children, as many Hungarian children as possible. There may be a debate between us in many ways, but I think that the one thing that we decide on is the question of the future, it is not certain that these are the best proposals, but for the countryside, for the region where I live, these proposals are very good, especially if we add the village CSOK institution. A rural youth can start very well in life and is very capable of getting rich with it, and we hope that many Hungarian children will be born in rural areas. I say that everyone who wants to do this for the Hungarian nation votes in favour of this proposal, and who doesn't do it, I can only say to what the Carpathia and János Petrás said, who doesn't vote for it, so much to them, that you are simply nothing! Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-19-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll give you the floor for two minutes to Congresswoman Avenger.
u2019-03-19-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have repeatedly asked for a voice in this debate because I myself would abstain and I would also like to ask my fellow Members to distinguish between Hungarian citizens and Hungarian citizens on an ethnic basis if we are talking about population policy. I am looking at the Secretary of State, as we have already mentioned in today's debate that our country is not yet doing well to reduce the number of teen pregnancys. In this sense, the government and the Hungarian society have a great responsibility to ensure that poverty does not regenerate itself in disadvantaged regions. It is very important that our institutional systems, such as health care, education and social networks, help regions where there is virtually only the possibility of giving their children the misery of individual families or mothers who become mothers prematurely, let us say, teenagers, in order to eliminate their current situation. Schools, integrated education are exceptionally important in this, and, yes, I think that if we are talking about the successful integration of Gypsy in Hungary, then sooner or later we can go, let us say, to families where children and children born from Roma and Hungarian marriage are already Hungarian citizens, as are both Hungarian citizens. I thank you for the opportunity.
u2019-03-19-94	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Katalin Novák.
u2019-03-19-95	Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to respond to this comment by saying that I agree. I also agree that we should not distinguish between Hungarian and Hungarian people on a racial or ethnic basis. In this sense, if I may, Madam Congresswoman, I would even correct what you have said: let us not say that it is Hungarian and Roma. There are Roma Hungarians and non-Roma Hungarians. Roma are Hungarians as well as non-Romas. I ask that if you talk about marriages and struggle to keep up with the Roma as much as possible... [[You're very grateful for Anett's intervention.]] But now, in his last sentence, he said that he trusts that there will be marriages where Roma and Hungarians marry each other. I would just like to add that the Roma are Hungarians too. Please consider them this way, and let us not call them Roma and Hungarians, but Roma and not Roma Hungarians. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[15.40]]
u2019-03-19-96	Thank you very much. Mr Zsolt Gréczy has the floor for two minutes.
u2019-03-19-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, You should slowly decide which way you choose. One is about making the opposition very constructive and supporting the pro-government proposals, and then others stand up and say that we are nothing. Make that decision, though. We are not Hungarians, we are Hungarians, we are Hungarians like you. We are tax-paying citizens who have been sent to Parliament by voters. I reject this text, Congressman, to look at opposition representatives. [[Happy István: It was a quote.]] The other: some things need to be fixed. Quite simply, when you refer to the national consultation, which is nonsense in itself, because you write the final result of this, and you announce it, no one ever checked that this was really so many letters. But even according to your own statement, about 20 percent of the letters sent, which come in, 80 percent of them don't answer your letter, and we don't even know what those who have responded at all have answered. That's one problem. And to my fellow Member, Mónika Duna, I must also say that I must also reject the sentence that those who governed before 2010 have always taken me away from families. [[Intercoms from the pro-government side. Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] Baby bonds? You didn't introduce the baby bond. Did the family replacement increase hurt the families? Did the renovation of 350 schools hurt families? Was the kindergarten program bad for the Hungarian families? Don't lie to me. It's my strong request. The other, which is also included, which also includes the fact that you also refer to foreign currency loans; foreign currency loans have been introduced by you. [[Happy István: You have abolished the housing subsidies.]] In 2001, the first Orbán government introduced the foreign currency loan, you voted for the foreign currency loan, and the central bank president was called Zsigmond Járai. So you drove Hungarian citizens into foreign currency loans. Shame on you!
u2019-03-19-98	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Katalin Novák.
u2019-03-19-99	Honourable Congressman, I just want to answer you very briefly. I gave birth to three children in 2004, 2006 and 2008. Ferenc Gyurcsány was Prime Minister of Hungary for all three years. Believe me, I know what I'm talking about when I say there were no family support. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Zsolt Gréczy: Didn't they raise the family allowance? Don't lie to me. Why are you lying? Did they raise the family allowance or not?]]
u2019-03-19-100	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, [[Katalin Novak intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, Be kind, Congressman, Madam Secretary, Secretary of State. Thank you very much. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Don't lie!]] And you, Congressman, don't yell, look... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: This is not Népszabadság! The president's ringing the bell.]] I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély in two minutes.
u2019-03-19-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to reply to the Secretary of State: I've given birth to three children. I took fertility treatments when you were on the government, believe me, I know what I'm talking about. I was punished because I was childless when you were on the government. So, Secretary of State, let's not fight here, I can stand up, many of us can stand up, and then I will say: the double family allowance for my twin children was introduced by the Socialist Government, and after twin children, the double-timed child was introduced by the Socialist Government. Madam Secretary, at least let's be honest with each other, and then let's answer and talk to each other like this. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-03-19-102	Thank you very much. I'll give the floor to the secretary of state.
u2019-03-19-103	I'm gonna put on the gloves, and then I think we're gonna close it. [[Zsolt Gréczy: It's so easy! Dániel Z. Carpathian: The government is elegant!]] From me, if you think this is the most important debate, then let's go on, I don't think so, but I can't let it go if you're putting in our faces. During this period, what was taken away: the family tax relief was abolished, there was no family tax relief for single and two children, the family tax relief for three children was reduced, the Socpol, the then home creation program was abolished. There was no support when one gave birth to the brothers within three years because the support was always only for the youngest child, if the children were born quickly, one after the other, this was also before the ged extra. If you went back to work, if you could, if you could, because you had a job, you were talking about unemployment of over 11 percent, you lost all family support, you didn't have to pay for it, you didn't have to pay for it. So don't tell me this wasn't an anti-family period. You have destroyed me, you have taken me away from the Hungarian families, and I think it would be better to face this, and perhaps you should at some point apologize to the Hungarian people for this. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-19-104	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Two speakers have been announced in advance. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that there are 13 names of Members on the screen, who have applied for a 15-minute comment, and I may facilitate their work by listing the order in which they are on the screen: Gergely Tapolczai, Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, Péter Hoppál, Sándor Kovács, Mária Kállai, Béla Turi-Kovács, László Hajdu, László Varju, Imre Vejkey, Antal Csárdi, Barna Pál Z. Kárpát Dániel, Borbély Bangóné, Ildikó Varga-Damm Andrea. That's more than that, 'cause they're still checking in. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Tapolczai, Fidesz.
u2019-03-19-105	[[He makes his comment with the help of a sign language interpreter.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I would also like to begin with a quote: "You never know what the outcome of your actions will be, but if you do nothing, there will be no result. I quoted this from Gandhi. We all agree that there is a situation. We are facing demographic challenges, which we need to find solutions to, and we need to find answers to. The bill before us is the government's proposal for a solution, which is part of the family protection plan. The bill isn't the action plan, it's part of it. We need to act constantly to resolve or find a solution to this situation. As Madam Secretary said, these seven points are not a closed list, they will be expanded in the future. The current bill is a possible proposal for future and expected measures. The president of the National Association of Large Families said that this association has been fighting for 30 years for what is now being done through the family protection action plan. So families are the center of focus. This action plan offers solutions to a wide variety of life situations. I will not list the points of the action plan now, we are all well aware of it, and I would just like to highlight one element of the bill before us, which is very important for those who may be in a situation where they cannot pay the repayment of the baby shower support. This is the state guarantee system. Those who can't pay the details, or can't take the children in parentheses within five years, I note that it is not because there is no infertility or other justification, then in this case the State will pay the full debt. This regulation allows banks to offer a more favourable design. Thus, those who require baby support in return will be able to pay a guarantee equal to 0.5 per cent of the outstanding debt... while paying the repayment, this may be a maximum of HUF 50,000 per month. This is a very big help for those who are in a life situation. The bill also regulates the tax exemption of baby shower support and motor vehicle acquisition aid, i.e. personal income tax-free. [[15.50]] According to the National Association of Large Families, the most popular measure is expected to be the baby shower support, as well as the support for motor vehicles and the action plan. We trust the Hungarian families that they will think rationally, and they will know which form of support is best for them, which form of support they will use. If this is to achieve all that the fertility index will increase after 2022, then we can also talk about results. This bill, which is part of the family protection action plan, regulates two important elements. I see no reason why opposition representatives should also support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-19-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi, Jobbik.
u2019-03-19-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This debate today is the legislative surreal time travel of the Fidesz-KDNP government, on which we are now present. We've heard several times about these government decrees. Yes, indeed, last week, on the 12th, these government decrees were published, the 44th, 45th, 46th government decree. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: But they didn't enter into force! It's a promise!]] It has not entered into force, that is so, but I would like to mention that these government regulations already contain that authorisation on the Family Support Act, now just look at the government decree on baby shower support, which is referred to as the statutes, and the Family Support Act 51. Point (e) of the first subparagraph. This legislation, I believe, is being negotiated today. So if today's draft legislation, which has not yet been adopted, is being discussed by the Parliament, and, yes, you nod that it is perfectly all right to refer an unapproved legislation to a government decree which has, however, already been published, has not entered into force, this legislation is quite strange. Shouldn't the proposals of my fellow opposition Members have been adopted, discussed and accepted first, and then these government regulations were then created? [[Intercoms on the pro-government side.]] Thank you very much for saying that this is perfectly correct and this is the legislative practice, but I am asking why the proposals in the text of the Government Decree could not have come directly into the law, so that we can say our opinions in accordance with the paragraphs, because, indeed, this bill before us is very narrow, practically about a few, four paragraphs, as my fellow Members have already said. If these laws, these government regulations, have been completed, their publication has also been made, why has it not been possible to include them so that my opposition fellow Members can make an opinion on these detailed rules? I'm sure there's a reason for that. I hope that you will also tell me why you had to hide this so, because I can no longer use another word, because what appears in a government decree will not come before this House. I would like to talk about another point, and, as has already been said, we are very happy that family support is linked to the world of work in the case of family support, and in particular the system of family tax relief is a very positive thing. However, I would like to ask you how the government plans, although in this seven-point plan, which has been announced, there is no expansion of the family tax relief, there is no change in the tax relief, but let us face it, that for the one-child population 10 thousand forints, forints 10 thousand forints for a very long time, forints for the three-year-olds 33 thousand forints, forints for a few years, and for the two-year-olds this year, in 2019 the SAY Law is now about the following years. I think that when we are talking about the four-year-olds' sija exemption, and this has already been said here, that it should be very high that the income from work should be very high so that they can use it in comparison with the family tax reduction, and I am aware that this family tax benefit can be used by sharing with husbands, but I would also like to find an answer to that, that the child who has had four children and who is fully free of children and whose children still have a dependent child is still entitled to benefit, can continue to use it either on a contribution allowance or only with the father or the partner, as is now in the sja law. So will you bring this sija exemption into line with the family tax reduction, which will take effect from 1 January 2020? I also have the same question regarding the tax benefit of the first married couple as to whether they plan to give the baby shower support to young married couples, or whether it will be released, or whether it will continue, and parents and newlyweds will be able to benefit from both benefits in parallel, even in relation to sia-freeness. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-19-108	Thank you, Congresswoman Anita Kőrösi. Two-minute contributions will follow; first, Mr Zsolt Gréczy, DK.
u2019-03-19-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I need to add some data to how which government worked as a family support system, because I see my job here today is not to let the lies go, and I'm not going to let it go, of course. The system of social assistance increased from 31 thousand to 53 thousand in the care premium in 2002-2008, from 175 thousand to 326 thousand in cash benefits, and this, I think, will be a very important figure from the point of view of family support. I'll tell you right now: in 2002 the first Orbán government spent 250 billion forints, in 2010 this figure was 530 billion forints. 210 and the end of the Orbán government, 2010: 530 billion HUF. I think that is a very significant difference. Then, I can name the data, for example, the series on the family allowance for two children: the family allowance for two children was HUF 4700 in 2002, the first Orbán government, HUF 4700 in 2009, HUF 13 300 in 2009, and the increase was 196.4 per cent. So much for which government negated and neglected the Hungarian families. This is a struggle that you may try to overcome, but that doesn't mean you're right. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-03-19-110	Thank you very much. I'll give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs for two minutes, KDNP.
u2019-03-19-111	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. In the Jobbik fraction, there must be a lot of confusion when Andrea Varga-Damm twice said, for the record, that no government decree had been issued, that the government asked for a blank cheque. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: I said it hasn't come into force yet, that it's just a promise!]] "There are no detailed rules, and then his fellow Member, Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, stands up that government decrees have been published, but why and why this is in it. So he's wearing this hat, he's not wearing a cap, but we've seen it around Jobbik's house. [[16.00]] I would like to say that you are involved in the four-year-old mother's freedom from law, which, on the one hand, is not included in this bill, because the tax law and it can enter into force from 1 January, as we have said before; on the other hand, it is a completely different matter from family tax incentives, because it lasts for the rest of your life, it does not concern dependent beneficiaries, it does not apply to minor dependants, but it is still in it for the rest of your life. I would say to my fellow Member, Zsolt Gréczy, that it is ironic to hear from him about the care fee when he did not vote for an increase in the care fee. [[Zsolt Gréczy: We were shorthanded! We're shorthanded! You should have given me more! The president's ringing the bell.]] Even though his fellow faction was bouncing around Parliament in all kinds of T-shirts to make that happen, they didn't vote for the nursing fee. I would also like to point out, Congressman, that in your best year there has been HUF 1000 billion in family support, which is already well over 2,000 billion in us. That wasn't inflation. You didn't spend money on families, you didn't care about families. [[Zsolt Gréczy: I just told you how much more it is compared to the first Orbán government!]] And we're gonna take care of families, spend money on families, and continue this program. 1,000 billion or 2100 billion: that's the difference. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-19-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next scheduled speaker is Mr Peter Hoppál. You have the floor.
u2019-03-19-113	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to introduce the presentation of this decade following one of the most important political philosophies with a Hungarian literary quote, and if I succeed, I shall also try to close this quote at the end of the speech. The quote recently related to the celebration of young people in March a few days ago, to the 15th of March, if in 1846 Sándor Petőfi wrote in his poem entitled The Hungarian Nation as an in-verse quote: "There was a people living in the Tisza region, / Századokokok, lomban, coward. * This is the bitter past [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] The time of reform, of course, in many literary quotes, presented the vision of national death, let us think of one of our most important poems, the Vocabulary of Vörösmarty, which is a ten years earlier poem of 1836, and in it we can read that the grave, where the nation goes down, / People are taking place, / and in the eyes of millions of people. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So it is very important that the generation, capable of sacrificing for the nation, felt that if there was no change, then the negative trends would probably bring about the end of this nation. I think that in this sense we are sorry for another anniversary holiday, that is not a holiday coming up between two important dates in today's debate: we are a few days after 15 March, and we are two days before 21 March, and that is the centenary of this year's anniversary of one of the deepest periods of the millennial Hungarian statehood, the beginning of the Council republic. A hundred years ago, the bloody days of the proletariat dictatorship took place, which we were obliged to teach in school as a glorious Hungarian era. And to this day, we must perceive that this type of gesture system along different political philosophies [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] It's in the walls of Parliament, in the 21st century. In the century. Here are the young people of March 48, responsible for the reform, and here is the proletariat dictatorship, and let's take everything away, what it is that people get and even ravage and destroy the ideology. This is very important to be caught in the act, because, I think, in today's era, voters can choose between these two choices, and voters will make the elections responsibly. It is no accident that you did not vote for it in 2010, 2014 and 2018, Mr Gréczy, which you are defending here, not for the eight-year policy that you have done. [[Zsolt Gréczy: According to U.S. State, you cheated!]] It's a completely different policy, a new policy that has results. I believe that if the Prime Minister lived this week in Parliament in an answer to you, that if there were a national minimum that at least on the issue of the family there would be some kind of consensus between some opposition party, but some kind of co-conception, a basic national minimum, on which there have been speeches from the opposition that have shown this direction in the last few hours, I believe that this would be desirable. After all, if political historians and political scientists will look at the political decades of Hungary after the regime change in ten years or twenty-eight years from now and say that from 90 to 2000 this and this was the result of the political era at that time, then the 2000-2010 period again had a benefit, and the period between 2010 and 2020 also has a benefit, then in the period 2010-2020 it is quite likely, it is already visible, its contours are here before us that families and Hungarian children have become the most important value for politics. Let us note how many aspects of the child's national value as the most important one have come before Parliament over the last decade. Let's just think about the fact that the three-year kindergarten has been ambushed, and you have said that, yes, this socialization process has produced a very important result, especially in terms of the children of the most needy families, that we are bringing them in at the age when their socialization can happen more strongly. Or that on September 1st of this year, we will achieve that all school-age children will receive free textbooks in their hands under a textbook package. [[Zsolt Gréczy: This is not good!]] That's very, very good. Well, we can argue. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Why does Lőrinc Ripper's child get free...?]] I accept that honourable opposition representatives say that this is bad [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] But it's for the families, and it's for the children, so as the most important value of this decade, as a political message, there's this measure as a drop in the sea, which includes this political philosophy. Or there is the food for children that we are constantly hearing siren sounds or sounds that children in certain families, in socioculturally disadvantaged areas, are actually starving, but because free meals are available, and even now during breaks. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] During spring, winter and summer holidays the children in need will also receive, so at least accept and acknowledge that, compared to the previous decade, a great step forward is that children do not starve because they receive public meals, receive the textbook package, and by reducing the costs, their monthly obligation to pay a family check decreased, and they increased before 2010. So let's at least have this much consensus. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] that the range of family allowances has increased spectacularly and dramatically this decade. Family support has many aspects, and the legislative package that has just been passed here is obviously the package of laws of the action plan announced by the Prime Minister in this year's 20-year evaluation. The newer grants therefore help to bear children and help raise children in Hungary. What else would be the purpose of this government intention, if not the immediate environment of the child and the child, the microsocial unity that we call family and consider to be a value to be protected, at least from a conservative political philosophy, what would be the purpose, if not for more and better the child and the child's microenvironment, the family? And, of course, we were also given guidance on this last April 8th from the Hungarian families when they said that this parliamentary composition should look like this for four years, as it now looks, so that many representatives sit in the pro-government benches, and that on the opposition side of the list places should be those who can express their concerns on a matter, but the proportions speak for themselves. And, of course, the figures in which it appears that after eight years compared to 2010, the amount of government budget forints spent on family support has multiplied, now it is 2000 billion forints a year, with the redistribution of state tax revenue, that the money goes to Hungarian families, this political philosophy, the political philosophy of the government side, that the number one winners of redistribution, the winners of the redistribution are the families, the Hungarian families. [[16.10]] That's what we announced, that was our message, and that's what we got the voting grants for. And yet another very important, far-reaching survey, when 1 million 400 thousand people say in the consultation that I am giving this guidance to the government; I will fill it in, send it back, so I will actively participate in this and give my opinion. You may not like this political product. Maybe they're saying it's not, 'cause it's gone. You may say why I filled it out like this, why I didn't, maybe you don't like the question, but the analysis and summary of the questions clearly shows that it is not 60:40, but 99 or 97 versus 1-3 percent of the Hungarian people who have been activated and nearly one and a half million people are sending these sheets back, answering the questions, telling them that this is what is important to them. This package of laws is people's package of laws because they asked the government to do it. The government put him in shape, and now we had a responsibility, a responsibility of electoral victory, to bring him to Parliament and discuss it. And if you're having an argument with that, of course. The role of the opposition is to control and debate the proposal. But to say that it's not enough, it's gonna take a lot more than that, I'd like to say that we haven't seen your family plan. We don't know what you guys would have done if you'd been on the government. But this is the category of the assumption, while our sad experience is that the Hungarian families were burned to the coal from the left-wing government period already in 1995 during the Bokros package. Everything that contributed to the livelihood and health of Hungarian families was taken at that time. They could do one thing: the restrictions emphasized as mantra were put on the neck of Hungarian families. Then they repeated this, when the fall of the national economy that you recreated after the election in 2006 was again taken from the Hungarian families in 2008-09. Do not say that during the period of government before 2010, Hungarian families were better assisted! They took away the double state interest subsidy forint loan that triggered home creation, which still rang the economy after 2002. Your Minister for Economics said that the economy is pounding, and the pannonian cougar is jumping. This was not produced by the Hungarian economy because you were geniuses, but because the government before 2002 created the economic conditions that good results were achieved. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes several times.]] And then it is obvious that when the government interest subsidy forint loan was abolished in 2004, it was replaced by foreign exchange loans, foreign exchange loans from commercial banks. So much for the fact who released foreign exchange loans to the Hungarian country. And then I have one more question: who has the task of saving one million families from foreign exchange credit as a result of your shameful work? [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes. Zsolt Gréczy: You have made the weakest HUF exchange rate of all time.]] Who had to take those measures? Excuse me. [[Moraj and interrogations from the benches of opposition parties.]] I would just like to say that you will do your dirty work and then you will remain here to solve the problem you have caused for civil governance. Summa summarum, in the knowledge and knowledge of this historical responsibility, we must say that all the baby shower support of HUF 10 million, which is now part of this package of laws, is a detailed mention of it, Madam Secretary of State, as well as a new loan for the purchase of the used apartment, which was provided to us in detail by the Secretary of State, as well as a reduction in mortgage credit from July to the birth of the second child and the third and then several children, as well as access to the two and a half million forints of seven-person cars for families with three and multiple children, each of which gives us some extra benefits, each of which helps families. So let us very much ask that we do not talk about this in such a way that more should be given, but that there should be a minimum common multiple, so that we can at least be happy together, that the Hungarian economy will produce these conditions, that the Hungarian people will join together, that 800,000 more people will work than in 2010, their taxes will increase, and with this state revenue, the civil government will tell them to get back to the families. This would be the national minimum, that we can agree on this, and if that is so, then I hope that Hungary is approaching not the 21st of March, the gestures of proletariat dictatorship and council society in the period ahead, whose voices unfortunately appear here in the House, but rather in the numbers that take responsibility for the 15th of March, the nation and the wrong figures, the bad data, the demographic data that have been deteriorating since 1981, or the political philosophy that is responsible for the successful future of those data, which symbolizes and shows our heritage linked to the 15th of March in these days. That is why I close my lines, my thoughts with the end of the poem that began; because in Petőfi's 1846 poem, when he presented us the vision of national death, I have already quoted at the beginning of my speech, yet his closing thoughts are positive, he says: "Oh my country, when will you put a beam again, a little light / your rusted name? When do you wake up to self-esteem? Petőfi expected us to do this: let us make our grandchildren proud that we did what we had to do. God bless Hungary! [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-19-114	Thank you very much, Congressman Hoppál. The next announced speaker was Mr Sándor Kovács, Member Fidesz.
u2019-03-19-115	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I think that we have talked a lot and let me approach today from the aspect where I have a very educated friend, former secretary of state of culture, that kind of social responsibility, and before that, my friend István Happy has strengthened the kind of Hungarian consciousness that is truly understood by fundamental rights: every citizen is a citizen, but there is something spiritual and spiritual in this page that is covered by a national identity. I think that this inspires us to introduce, dare to argue about, the kind of expression that is a family protection action plan, and to launch the path that all our ancestors, all governments have done after all the social crises that even those communists tried to deal with the demographic situation with various social policy measures in the 1920s after the First World War or after the Second World War. This is what we are trying to do a little more completely, and part and part of it, as my fellow Member Gergő Tapolczai said, is a piece of the current law, because we need to talk about the beginning of the child's house, the catching up of children with 0-3 years of disability. We talked about the three-year compulsory kindergarten, we talked about other support for schoolchildren. So summa summarum: the kind of family policy complex vision that characterizes the Fidesz-KDNP government did not describe the opposition as a government responsibility, because as much as my fellow Member Gréczy wants to deny it, people felt at that time how they felt, how they lived, and now they have been feeling:, in 10th, 18th, 14th. And believe me, the feelings that will appear in the votes will be felt by the people at the very demonstration that you are organizing or at the spirit that we now want and want to come with us as a commemoration of March 15, because I think that the Christian democracy, the spiritual future, has a vision and makes sense that we begin with government responsibility. Let me send a message to my fellow Member, Mr Ander Balázs, saying that if we are talking about the category of ten million fantasies, then there was a sociological survey here, and the European Union has it in its possession that if we do nothing, then in a hundred years, Hungary is about the country of three million Hungarians. And if we add Tamás Bauer's sentences to the camera that, yes, we have to fill the deficit with migrants that we, with the Hungarian children of Hungarian people, want to put into the family policy system, then we get a huge contrast to how we want to bring the ten million closer. We may not achieve it, but if we do nothing, we may be a country of three million in a hundred years, which is all the same to Gréczy, because you are anti-Hungarian, I dare say! [[16.20]] DK, which thinks in the European Union, is the kind of spirit, the opposition to the Hungarian spirit, which knows the pro-immigration people, would only use social policy expenditure on it and only on it. [[Zsolt Gréczy: So you are not thinking in the European Union! You admitted it!]] instead of the Hungarian families, my dear sir, as much as you want to turn this around! [[Zsolt Gréczy: That's what you said!]] So let me tell Ander Balázs. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You are not thinking in the European Union. We understand.]] on the Roma and non-Roma minority, when Maria Theresa banned Gypsies from marrying each other with Gypsy law [[Zsolt Gréczy: You want to leave the European Union. Thank you.]] he was obliged to marry Gypsy Hungarian. They were called New Hungarians in the marriage register. I respectfully report that I also come from a family like this, and in the early 1800s, one of my ancestors was new-Hungarian, and I am proud to have Gypsy ancestors. There is no need to cut it in two, to contribute to social integration that can lift this Hungary, and that Roma minority is a buffer in the society where we are. And let's focus on them, Christian-rooted minorities, who speak Hungarian, and support them, rather than spending those social policy benefits on migrants. I'm sorry if I got a little aggressive, but I was talking about my feelings. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-19-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Maria Kállai, Fidesz.
u2019-03-19-117	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Thank you for the floor. Thus, towards the end of the debate, if I wanted to start my thoughts with a popular advertising slogan, I would say that this debate would not have been possible if the family protection plans of the Orbán government had not been recognized by the country and if it had not come before Parliament. But watching this afternoon, I can ask you why I'm mentioning it or why I'm starting with it. I think we can agree that a unique draft in the history of Hungarian parliamentarism has led us all to think. I am very surprised, and after my first year as a Member, I was very shocked to see that, in addition to some constructive opposition ideas and some forward-looking thoughts, I am very sorry that, overall, it comes down to me that not always we can hear the intention of improving, but that we can put together a very positive draft law, which is very helpful to the maintenance of the family, and it would be good not to make it a warehouse for the formulation of deficits, but I do not want to say that it is a political game. All this draft is a draft which, as has already been said today, was not born in the Secretary of State's room, but in the thought of the Hungarian people, and I think that a responsible Hungarian government, a responsible Hungarian Parliament, is obliged to reflect on this and to look for points from which we can get to know people's expectations and thoughts systematically, at a systemic level, as far as possible. We've heard a lot of criticisms today. If I think about the criticisms that we have heard today and the various press statements that have been published over the past period, then indeed: what will happen to single children, in practice, the rich will benefit, with braked foam, inefficient, shallow, and I could list the call words that have already been scissored out of statements in advance today and in recent weeks. I think that, in practice, the foresight, the willingness to cooperate is lacking in opposition representatives, which I believe the governing party, if any, is right to count on in such a cardinal question. On the other hand, we agree on this point, and I think that our country is facing an extraordinary challenge, such as the loss of population, which affects not only our country, but also Europe as a whole, and in most countries in Europe, we must say that it creates a real daily problem, a daily challenge. We also know that Europe's politicians offer two paths: one is acceptance and the other is support for migration. Of course, for pro-immigration representatives, migration seems to be a very simple solution, since it is fast, virtually without foresight, and we have not talked about the national identity that my fellow Members have now analysed on many sides. I am convinced that the voters sent us all to Parliament to solve the problem in a way that offers a real alternative for the future, to take responsibility for the future, and not to cause another problem. With family protection measures, we offer a third way. Dear fellow Members, European solutions are poor on this issue, and in modern European democracy, for many decades nothing has encouraged us to start a family. I could list what has been said today, or, as I have said, some of the statements that have already been made. For example, the Democratic Coalition said, Ferenc Gyurcsány in person, that because we pay, there will be no emotion, but that is why no one is taking on any more children. Even to think about it is terrible, for I can say that we can see the particular logic that is unable to look at the world with the eyes of people. Ladies and Gentlemen, This proposal eliminates the thinking of a young family having to choose between family and career. It offers the opportunity, in a wide variety of ways, to respond to different life situations, taking into account different life situations, so that they can choose themselves, but in no way should you have to put the word "sort or bond" there: family or work, family or career. In any case, I think that this is one of the greatest values and the value of what the Government of Hungary has created with the work of Hungarian people, that today in Europe we can say that we are spending HUF 2000 billion on supporting families, 4.8 percent of the annual GDP, I believe that this is very convincing in any way. But a little further down from the top level, listening to people in the constituency every day, I feel a number of examples in my soul when young families thank me for this when young families are happy to address me, and when I think about it, they actually sense that as a teacher, I meet quite a lot of these young families, in fact they perceive a system in itself, because they have also been said today that if we add tax breaks to all of this, we add what the single children can benefit from, my fellow Members have said today about many systems of school support, whether it is free textbooks, said my fellow Member István Happy about the new perspectives of rural life, about the Hungarian village, it must be said about the unemployment that is practically disappearing in many places today, the increasing wages that Prime Minister said, then a completely different picture of Hungary is drawn before us, and I think that as a result of Hungarian society, as a result of Hungarian people's work, this can be done together for the growth of Hungarian society. Of course, he talks about the dangers of population loss, he sincerely tries to offer an alternative to Hungarian people, Hungarian families, for the survival of Hungarian people against the support of illegal immigration, and in any case he considers the family support system to be a very serious, responsible investment in the future, a good start of which is this bill proposal. And I think that this package, as we have heard several times today, is an open package, trusting the further strengthening of the economy, trusting in the formulation of the further needs of society, giving good answers to this. I wish, with all due respect, that the Fidesz-KDNP Party Alliance could, of course, count on as many parties as possible to vote for this forward-looking, responsible proposal in the final vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-19-118	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Kállai. I'll give the floor to Congressman Lajos Rig for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2019-03-19-119	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that if we want to live in the future and put confidence in it, we need to do something in the present that will affect the future. Unfortunately, this demographic situation has not just developed, but we need to find a solution now. This action plan is acceptable to everyone at the level of communication and propaganda and is completely good, not so much at the level of action. As a member of the Tapolca large family associations, and since we've been involved here in such competition as to see how many children were born and raised, I've raised four children, I've already put two in the service of the nation, and I'd like to start two more in the same way. Now, first of all, the big families in Tapolca sent me the message about buying a car that if you look at the big family associations, all the people my age, who already have an apartment, a currency loan, had three children, and they have a broken-down car. [[16.30]] They have a currency loan, and I'd like to replace it. Not everyone wants Dacia, Madam Secretary, they want to buy an Opel Zafira, with a market price of HUF 7.5 million, and the state will give HUF 2.5 million to this, and they will not be able to accept a loan of HUF 5 million. One more important thing that I think is discriminatory for the coming days. Tell me, Madam Secretary, how different a fetus born after 1 July is from a fetus born on 29 June at the level of a credit facility; because a credit facility is, according to you, a child. I don't think so. Those born after 1 July may benefit from a few discounts. The one who was born before 1 July, however, is excluded from many discounts. What about those large family members who have already put a lot of things on the nation's table and who do not benefit from these benefits because they have foreign currency loans and cannot take on more children? And here it was said that this is not primarily a budget line. But, I would like to raise and set my children on their way so that, at the age of 15, as many of my companions, they do not have to go to the culager to contribute to the family's income. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-19-120	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács, Fidesz.
u2019-03-19-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Given the progress of time, very briefly. Dear House, I think that sometime it's the 18th and then the 19th. In the first century there were some who predicted that not only the Hungarian nation, the Hungarian language, would disappear from the Carpathian Basin. Compared to this, we are a dominant people in the Carpathian Basin, and let's add, a little less than ten million. But let us also add that, after the end of World War I, between the same borders, perhaps apart from the three villages in Bratislava, the 7 million exceeded 800 thousand people, and by some miracle? In 22 years' time, because of the people's spirit, we reached 10 million and even exceeded it. Was it a miracle? Or would we say that that would have been a system that provided people with economic opportunities to give birth to children? I can prove it wasn't, it wasn't like that. In a very hard struggle, many poor people looked to the future with hope because that society could give hope at that time because it turned to the soul in the first place. The government recognised the danger and let me point out that it is very important that it has recognised that there is a dangerous situation in terms of growth. [[Moraj in the ranks of opposition parties.]] There's a dangerous situation in the field of demography. But there is no demographic disaster. I believe that anyone who wants to visualize such a situation for the country today will not do any good. This country needs faith and hope, and all families who have children need faith and hope in the future. In creating economic opportunities, I believe that the government has gone to the final frontier. Sometimes I even think that it may have gone a little beyond these boundaries in some places, and it will not be easy to fulfill everything that is going on. These things are circumscribed and need to be economically fulfilled in the next period, which can only be achieved. I think the country is able to produce this performance. Dear House, As a matter of fact, there may be some kind of ethnic change within this country that would bring another emergency to Hungary, let me tell you an anecdote. When Sándor Petőfi's mother died, the fact that this happened, Petőfi went home and met his evangelical instructor. He saw it, he went there and told him that he could be a great Hungarian poet, and that Alexander Petrovich could be a great Hungarian poet. So, my dear friends, it's up to us. It is up to us, the Hungarians who believe in the future of this country, that those who live here with us will be good Hungarian people, that those people will be useful members of this society. Dear House, Are there any other things to add in the financials? They can always be. And today, the opposition has shown some strange attitude that reminded me of that simple old folk saying that, well, there is no wagon that couldn't afford another vella. I think that's why there's a chariot, and there's a responsible government and the country's now responsible government, and you can only think of it as thinking within the limits of opportunities. A little something that is involved in this brief presentation, and what has caused me some concern: careful with that ready-to-pay guarantee! We're gonna have to rally the contracts around a lot. By no means should a situation and a situation be created where some believe that they have had some kind of opportunity, but not to have children. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: That's what we're talking about! Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: There's the point!]] This is very important. I think that this can be created... so that I do not go as my good fellow Member here has been told that he would be disqualified from the faction. Thank you. So I think, my dear friends, that the government, when it went to the final frontier, has recognised the situation that needs to be changed, but is also aware that there is no demographic emergency in Hungary. The changes are in our hands, the possibilities of change. If these changes have been taken in a positive direction to such a level in nine years, then we will also succeed. It has the potential for success, the hope of success. However, I have to say this, and it must not be said, and it has already been said by others: spiritual factors are very, very important here. It is very important that the relationship between the parent and the child should return to what we thought was natural in our childhood, namely that there is a two-way commitment and a relationship between the child and the parent, the raising of the child on the part of the parent, the adoption and support of the parent on the part of the child. This is a social, I must say, Hungarian, a reality that has been realized for a very long time, which we are now beginning to forget. It needs to be changed. We must clearly be able to create this possibility. Today, the House is discussing something here, and I consider it important to supplement the law on churches. Let us achieve that in this country, all the organisations that have significant spiritual influence are primarily associated with the churches, consider their primary task to succeed in this programme, to which I think perhaps even the better half of the opposition, not the Jobbik, but the whole opposition, could be linked. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-19-122	Thank you very much, Congressman Béla Turi-Kovács. I'll give the floor to Congressman Lajos Rig for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2019-03-19-123	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I am a great admirer of Mr Turi-Kovács, since he has such delicious speeches and great truths. He had a slip of the tongue, not a slip of the tongue, I think he thought otherwise, because if he did, I would refuse. However, Madam Secretary of State also said in the expozee that, being politically correct, she calls on the opposition parties to put the political view on this issue aside and to try to debate constructively and to think together. I completely agree with that. I asked for the same thing yesterday, when I asked 80 families for help, for those suffering from the SMA, and there were no such things that you said here that the Members ran out after speaking, because they didn't come in. There was no debate, no questions asked. We wanted to help 80 families, and you voted against it today. So the yellings that came from your ranks, I don't think it was entirely politically correct that you were simply no one, if you didn't vote for this, I have to decline. You did not vote for the item that could have helped these patients breathe to reach that moment, to the point that the government, as promised, may now in a year and a half, develop a plan that will help these patients. So if we are talking about political correctness, Madam Secretary, I expect you to follow the same political correctness on the issues raised by the opposition, and if you can no longer bring political correctness into it, at least try some human contribution on other subjects. By the way, as I said in my first two minutes, a lot of things are eligible, but the opposition is not saying its criticisms because it will not support or support it, but so that this is a wake-up call for the ruling party, so that the loopholes which Mr Turi-Kovács mentioned can be excluded at the moment when this law comes into force. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[16.40]]
u2019-03-19-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mr László Hajdu, DK.
u2019-03-19-125	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Before speaking to the subject, as I see Congressman Péter Hoppál, he went to mention that a hundred years ago there was a glorious Republic of the Council, I do not know how he was able to link to this law, but in any case I would also like to mention a date: now 75 years ago, in this House, József Közi Horváth, a Member of Parliament, who was a Catholic parish priest and so was a Member of Parliament, wanted to be heard by the Christian Party's representative for the fact that it was true that the interior minister Köztes-Fischer was arrested last night. What happened 75 years ago? The Germans invaded Hungary, and this has serious consequences from a family policy point of view, when the deportation law was passed shortly thereafter. But it's just a detour, it didn't belong here, I just thought I'd make a mention like that. So it was a serious event 75 years ago. Dear Secretary of State, Added to 4 points or 7 points, I think, in the nice style, in a continuous way of performance, as it was done, it sounded good and eligible. However, if I add how many other problems of family support we do not mention, then I have to identify myself with those who have raised the details that are very important for us to actually be able to talk about the action plan that is called family policy in this case. I didn't know, in the meantime, that two government decrees had already been issued; we argued that they were already decided. What's in that government decree, number 44 and number 46, I don't know and I don't know, so if you don't know what it is, you might be in this law. One sure thing is that if you are a Member of Parliament and I think you will all do this, you can say that you are looking for 90 percent of the Member in the housing, housing and housing crisis, and they are young people with families, in a hopeless situation. I can't imagine anyone saying that they haven't been contacted by such a client; everyone in the housing area is especially in the big city; my constituency is in Budapest, they're looking for me in bulk because poor people can't get an apartment. I used to go out for an environmental study, look at it, I've met every version between 10 and 16, so many people live in an apartment. The apartment seems to be lucky to have a larger room, and there is also a smaller one, on each other's tip-backs, on three levels, such a camplike bed. This is how people live in a metropolitan city in Budapest. So when we are talking about family policy and action plan, I think it is no coincidence that the apartment comes up first, because without housing there is no family policy, everyone knows that, perhaps, Madam Secretary of State, the best of us. I would like to mention, as I mentioned earlier, that on Sunday the 17th, it was 50 years ago that the foundation stone for the construction of the New Palota estate was laid on New Palota. Then they made a family policy in advance, consciously, planning to build 15,000 apartments there. This was part of a nationwide 15-year-old program to build one and a half million apartments. We went to that place on Sunday the 17th, where there was a statue where the foundation stone was laid down, and we laid down some flowers, so we remembered the 50th anniversary when 60,000 happy people moved in there. The 15,000 apartments have all been built. If such a program had been put here, that we would have built so many apartments, it would have been different. But there are rewards here: those who deserve ten million will get ten million, but I'm afraid those two government regulations have strict regulations that make it look like CSOK and NOK, that only wealthy people, so very strong middle-class people, can get access to them, and nobody can just get access to them. I do not see Mr Félix Farkas here, who very much praised the various subsidies of the government that the Roma are receiving and much more. Recently there was the usual two - year - old account of indigenous nationalities, and in that interesting debate he mentioned how much they received. It is estimated in my constituency, because we have no idea how many about 5,000 Roma live, who have terrible housing problems, and there are 3-4 children; it depends on what kind of people they become, and everyone knows it, it could be led sociologically. At the time of the change of regime, the family support service is listed in Annex XV. 'Cause it's a group of six people in the district. Now they're around 310-320 who deal with families, social policy and other things, so that's how much poverty management has grown in the last 29 years. And in the last 29 years, since the change of regime, no government has been able to bring the left-wing governments to us a serious coherent housing programme. No one can show you anything like that. Home building programme, especially a rental-building programme, has not been published at all, and this is not a rental-building programme we are talking about, the middle-class programme, I think. If I consider that this is an eligible part, and we do not know the two government decisions that have already been found to exist incognito, or even enter into force with 1th, if we consider what could be added to this, then what will help, what will be mitigated by the housing crisis that appears today only in large cities, or, let us say, in the capital city, in a city of the world. If it doesn't alleviate anything, it hasn't been worth it; we've been debating this bill for 4-5 hours, and I think a lot of slaps have gone there, too, while we can't see that there is a real opportunity for action, real funding, a real resource from which this will be achieved. Because if it's a foreign exchange loan 2., so you pick it up, and then something happens, especially if you don't have a child, and you can't pay this money back, but I don't even know how you come up with this action program, that you can even buy a car, that makes this whole program a little bit of a smile, so if I take this into account, I don't think it's an incentive for my constituency to have children. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of DK, MSZP and LMP.]]
u2019-03-19-126	Thank you, Congressman Hajdu. The next speaker was Mr László Varju, DK. [[16.50]]
u2019-03-19-127	Ladies and gentlemen. Dear House, Life has brought it to me that I would like to continue in a similar tone to what my fellow Member László Hajdu has started, because there is a real problem that we all know exists, but this situation seems to be something that no one wants to face. We know that there is an ageing society that is losing weight, and we are not going to find the opportunity and the form in which we would actually find real solutions. Perhaps today's debate involves looking at who gave the first slap, but I would like to contribute a few sentences to that. Not for slapping, but for you to think seriously that you expect any opinion from the opposition, you can't do that. But the situation also includes what I started today before the agenda, and I also mentioned that the ad hoc committee on population policy, set up by the first Orbán government and chaired by Viktor Orbán, discussed a report in 1999 and, until 2050, it considered 40-47 thousand immigrants a year necessary for Hungary's population to reach 10 million even in the middle of the century. We are aware that your position has changed. I am also aware of that and you are aware that no one is trying to achieve this with immigrants. We all want the Hungarian families to be in a situation where their housing, as you have just heard, is that their living conditions are what they could be in. But how can we put aside the disagreement that Katalin Novak proposed when you presented this bill like this? It is worth looking at this bill. It seems kind of funny, because we're talking about these four paragraphs, which actually means that you brought him here from a marketing point of view, from a communication point of view, to act as if otherwise... and take advantage of the opportunity to talk about it here, while you expect nothing from the opposition. And what did the opposition do? Responsiblely, each party has proposed to you what is missing. Because responsible everyone says families need to be helped. Therefore, frankly, I am not in the mood, and that is why I mentioned it, because Gabriella Selmeczi said that we are not with immigrants, but with Hungarian families. I was just quoting what you were doing in 1999. But with their souls, there is nothing wrong with it, only then there is no need to deny it, no need to speak ill of it, but simply to face the real problem. We have always been with the Hungarian families, and we would have liked to have been able to improve their situation in some way, in terms of their problems and their problems. But on the basis of today's debate, I have to say that it is, in fact, very fortunate that this debate is not being broadcast, because it would result in how irresponsible the whole Parliament is, as it is. But, of course, he is always responsible for the one who is greater; this follows. Because if someone looks a little further away, then the family conditions for standing on their own feet are so many that they have not been able to create over the last few years. If you want, I'll list by name who could do this. I would add one more thing: if they had been serious for one minute about talking or wanting to talk to the opposition about this, for example, they would have come to the meeting of the Committee on Budgets. They would have taken the trouble to examine the financial implications of this, to examine the impact assessment later, or to express my opinion that you have seen such a thing, how much this story costs at all, what a responsible presentation has been presented here. Compared to this, a two-line letter said thank you very much, you do not want to talk about it, and this was arranged early this week. So not only have government decisions been decided to refer to a law that has not yet entered into force, but they do not even want to talk about it. What's there to talk about? For example, one part is that it is bad that everything is about money for you. They think it's the only way to solve everything. Ladies and gentlemen, the thing is, it's not like that. I even acknowledge that I accept or acknowledge what Mr. Peter Hoppál said that there is a direction, it has been pushed for decades, and they want things to change. But in the meantime, what's happening? During these ten years, there have been three years when the least children were born in this country, along with your glorious activities. Last year, too, was born with a birth count of less than 90,000. So they can't be so proud, no matter how loudly and hard they put it on posters or here in Parliament, anyway, the end result is that your initiatives in this direction didn't reach the goal, and I'm very politely saying it now, not as you have done in the past. The problem is, this money-turning thinking is in the way of thinking, it's because you think everyone's worth as much as they've scratched up for you. There are families, most of the families who couldn't do it, and they're doing it compared to that, and you've made a suggestion as to what this document called a family protection action plan actually means. The problem is that we have to make a general statement that this is more of a pre-election catch. It can't be much more than that, because they have only found arguments or solutions for party policy purposes, which I believe cannot be treated so unilaterally. If you'd pay attention to what comes from either the science or the opposition, you'd be able to do more than that. The grants are only available through a relatively narrow range. That's how they ended up with the CHOK. It may be your intention to make this available to just a few tens of thousands of families in total, and you consider this to be a result. We don't consider it a result. We're thinking much more widely, and it should affect a lot more people. The winners of the proposal are the wealthy families with at least three children, who have enjoyed the pampering of the Orbán government. All right, just notice that the world is a little more colorful than this. There are others in Hungary, and they must also be taken into account. Therefore, those tax incentives... or rather I continue by saying that if only in a small part of society the willingness to have children increases, then exactly what I was talking about at the beginning is the demographic problem you are talking about, but can do little. And now I am not debating the intention, but if the result, the efficiency is insufficient, it will not change in this respect. If one or two children and poorer families do not receive support, there will be no demographic change. I can't believe you don't understand that. Because this could indeed be an issue worth discussing with a national consensus, even in such political circumstances, but not in the manner in which you agree. They can't do this by insulting the opposition. Then don't be surprised that if you go into the pub, you'll get the slap back. Therefore, it would be better to deal with this with greater responsibility, because the demographic situation is a much bigger problem than the way it is intended to be covered. There is a very serious risk that my fellow Member László Hajdu referred to, which concerns the debt of families. I even allow myself to do what you think, to think with good intentions that everyone will strive to fulfil their contractual obligations for the credit received. But the problem is, life shows that every second marriage ends in divorce. [[17.00]] And then what happens to them, what happens to those families, what happens to what's left of them, if you use this kind of supply to move on? And with all the best intentions, it's just the road to hell that they're going to recreate, and now I'm not quoting another situation like this when they're doing it. The proposal will further increase the financial burden of divorce, and I would be able to go further on that. Therefore, the position of the Democratic Coalition is that it is not lawful and forbidden to speak exclusively in a forinted way, but to make the circumstances so. If I can compare it a little to something, there are a lot of workers who are not the only ones that are taken into account, but also working conditions when choosing a job. And it's the same here: it's not just about you guys wanting to support them with credit, it's about the circumstances. If the slave law is left alive, what do they want, for people do not spend their time with their families, but spend their time at their workplaces. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] No matter what the Prime Minister thinks about it, and he thinks or says here in Parliament that hurrah is all good in the economy. Bullshit! It's not like that! We should be more concerned with raising the family allowance, at least it affects everyone. It would be possible to do something about the health crisis, because they are fleeing this country, partly because of the economic situation, and partly because they have to sell apartments, not because someone else has money and wants to go to a private clinic, but because they only have the opportunity to do so, and in order to do so, values have to be sold. And if you don't change that, then people are only getting poorer, and unfortunately, here we are today. Now I don't even want to talk about how much it is necessary to improve education; how families... Here is how can families be evicted? You're talking about families, you've devoted a whole year to the text, and compared to that, you're allowing families to be put on the streets with children. How is that possible? That's the only thing, if you could at least bring it here, it would really be a step forward. And this category includes the fact that there are smaller groups, such as those employed in home care, or, hopefully, someday they will be employed in life, so that they can truly gain the opportunity to care for their loved ones at home in employment. And yes, if you want to give something for housing, the free utility minimum, the minimum of life, that if you're like this, not a cougar, but the Fidesz economy is working, then there should be a way for the poorest to have at least a bowl of soup, not to freeze, and to bathe when they go, hopefully, to work or to school. I must say to you, and draw attention to this once again, that family planning is not based on a business plan, it is not just a matter of money, it is also about how the circumstances are created. For example, the circumstances included so much mention today of the incredible results of the national consultation, but they took the trouble to ask the opposition once what questions we would ask and to provide an opportunity to evaluate these issues otherwise? [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] Have you ever bothered to call something really national and not fidesist letters? No, dear fellow Members. So that's how it stays. We have made a lot of proposals in our bill, which would otherwise be acceptable. We're waiting on your experience to answer that. Thank you.
u2019-03-19-128	Welcome, fellow Members. Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey.
u2019-03-19-129	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Much has been said about T/5132. In the course of the previous debate on the legislative proposal No. In my opinion, both of you, from the opposition side, we look at a mountain from the pro-government side: we look on one side of the mountain, and you are not on a real side, but on a perceived other side. I'm saying he thought he was on the other side because you're saying we're indebting families with this bill. No, ladies and gentlemen, that's not what this is about. We're also giving poor families housing. [[László Varju: Good!]] , because this bill would give them tens of millions of forints, most of which are non-refundable and the other part has zero-percent interest. So I think that if we look only at these facts, then it is certainly worth the support of this bill, even from the opposition. Allow me, as a Christian Democrat politician, to explain that we consider it important to introduce this family protection action plan. It is important to further strengthen and support families. With the adoption of the bill, we believe it is important that in the future families can receive baby shower support, and that young married people can further expand their home-building support to better, bigger apartments, and that grandparents can also be introduced. We think it's very important. We also consider it important that whatever siren sounds were sounded, but the nursery constructions continue, and many new nurserys were built in Hungary. We believe that it is important that there should be a loan waiver in the event of the birth of children. And yes, it is very important to support large families in buying cars, because, indeed, their mobility must be promoted, and in the event that their fourth child is born, it is difficult for them to drive properly with a five-person car. Ladies and Gentlemen, The measures set out in the bill will help hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families in their daily lives, so it is important not only to adopt them, but also to inform as many people as possible that they know what opportunities they can use. That is why I ask the Government not to forget this, I ask you, Madam Secretary of State, to cooperate in making sure that people will get to know this current bill as widely as possible, and we trust that later on it will be a law. Ladies and Gentlemen, We also use the family protection plan to tell you that raising children is a value. The biggest problem in Western Europe is that family support is treated as a taboo and only deals with how migration can compensate for the deficit caused by falling birth numbers. However, they do not ask the real question: what is the cause of the decline in the population? Europe is today a continent of empty cradles. We do not want to solve this problem with migration, but with Hungarian children, through increased and more targeted support for families raising children. This is our intention reflected in the family support action plan by this bill. Ladies and Gentlemen, Fidesz-KDNP decided to be on the side of Hungarian families and young people. We offer a safe future for young Hungarians and Hungarian families. We believe that they are the golden reserve of our nation, who is releasing its families and young people, as Prime Minister said he would lose his future. [[17.10]] We, on the other hand, want to win the future for Hungary's benefit, which is why we support families in creating homes and young people in starting families. Please support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-19-130	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi.
u2019-03-19-131	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Yes, it must be acknowledged that there are parts in this proposal that need to be supported, cannot be, mandatory. But I think we shouldn't pretend we just got out of the nursery. This proposal has a perhaps undisclosed marketing goal, which has already been referred to by several opposition representatives, because if it were not, I think there should be a lot of things in addition. It's a family plan. If I say family protection, then I think that if it's family protection, then there are some things missing, because if it's family protection, then what about employee rights? What about decisions that are KDNP and fidesz decisions that do cause problems and problems in the normal, everyday functioning of a family? In this family protection action plan, if it had not been prepared primarily for marketing purposes, there should be a decision to withdraw the amendment to the Labour Code which withdraws the slave law. Yes, in this case, we could indeed say that this is one of the elements of a family protection action plan. What else do you need? I think that the family protection action plan should include, for example, a decision in which the Hungarian Government undertakes to settle the situation of foreign exchange creditors with integrity and fairness, especially in the light of last week's and last September's European court decisions. What, of course, can be read in this proposal? That debtors who are today listed as a poor debtor in the KHR database are not entitled to support the State. Yes, please respectfully, in a family protection plan, you said that the currency loan damage, the weakest, most needy layer, was pushed away. As in the Pest slang, it's practically every day now, not that you don't leave anyone on the side of the road, but you even kick them so that they can't even go back from their existential position to a recoordination. Yes, please, if this were a serious family protection action plan, then there should be a fair proposal to compensate foreign exchange credentials. Yes, if we wanted to take this seriously, and if you wanted to take it seriously, that this really is a family protection action plan, then I think that you would not try to solve this problem in a way that is described here. What are we experiencing? After plowing the housing register, you will try to support the Hungarian families with a loan product. On the 10th anniversary of the foreign exchange crisis, families thank each other very much, but if you thought about it, the two together, the housing register and this package could have worked, they could have completed each other. We are talking about the fact that families can receive a loan of HUF 10+10 million in connection with this proposal and the CSOK. Of course, the proposal is silently silent about how and how to create a family, which is another issue, as otherwise required by law. In addition, if you look at the reality that is banging on the window, you can see that the price of an apartment with one and a half rooms in Budapest is 30 million forints and above. Please respectfully, this means that families can receive a discount of HUF 20 million, but they have to pay off their share of HUF 10 million. For example, it would have been extremely helpful if you hadn't abolished the housing register. But you didn't. I therefore believe that I have reason to believe that you have been extremely motivated when drafting this proposal, how much this can be used for marketing purposes. Yes, however, I believe that, since there are elements to be supported, the majority of the opposition will support this proposal. [[Katalin Novak: Go!]] But I think we need to talk about what you do not want to talk about, about the actions you have missed and the steps that have been taken to date from your social policy. I think that, as my fellow Member has said before me, it is not just the money that motivates me to start a family, the quality time spent together, my fellow Members, the quality time spent together, because let's face it, with 400 mandatory overtimes a year, it is very difficult to bring together quality family time together. Let's face it. Let's face it, please respectfully. In the event that the parent, mother or father arrive home tired after 8 overtime hours a week, typically underpaid in Hungary, there will be no quality time spent together, as one of them will probably start making dinner and the other will fall asleep in the chair in front of the TV. We all know that's not what we want to see, right? So it would be my respectful request that you reconsider before establishing this package of proposals by regulation. On the one hand, consider the possibility of revoking the slave law. On the other hand, I think that all Members of Parliament rightly demand that, if they are already family protection, they solve the legitimate problems and demands of foreign exchange creditors in the light of the two European court decisions. Thirdly, I ask you that the poorest layer, which is likely to bleed out during the examination of the credit rating capability, should not be excluded from this circle, who can receive the support, because let's face it, the HUF 90,000, which is the repayment of HUF 20 million with a 20-year term, calculated without interest, can put an average family, the majority of families, in an extremely difficult situation today. My request, my dear Secretary of State, is to consider the proposal that people in need should not be excluded from this circle of support, and that it is not just forint support that helps a family to develop healthy and childbearing. Because I can have a child if I can spare time, if I have time tonight to talk, play, or attend a cultural event with my child, or go to a theatre. As long as this existential security background, the difficulties arising from working time management, I think it's a lame horse. I think, of course, at the same time, that you can make a pull horse out of it. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-19-132	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman László Varju for a two-minute comment.
u2019-03-19-133	Thank you so much for the opportunity. As I promised, I would like to add one more thought to the debate. For example, it would certainly help if the government made the impact assessment based on which it decided to make it public, because this was not presented. The Parliament is practically issuing a blank cheque. We do not know how much this will cost, and I think that I cannot ignore this from the Committee on Budgets. [[17.20]] The government has a reporting obligation, and I see you're not prepared for that. Do it, think about it, and look for this opportunity, and take out this material and present it. In another context, I would like to point out that the bill is 2. This is a rather specific arrangement, given that this is for a government cycle. Obviously, they're preparing for the 2022 elections, so let's consider it this way, stress it, and tell everyone that they only want to use it as such an election trick if they support you in doing so. The construction itself is quite interesting, because no conditions are defined by law, they could only write what was said here and what was in it. So I look forward to the impact assessment on the basis of which all this preparation was prepared. Thank you.
u2019-03-19-134	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpát in two minutes.
u2019-03-19-135	Mr President, Dear House, My compliments to everyone who has sat through this heroically long debate with their active participation, not only by yelling at you, if necessary. It is not the first time that the issue of foreign exchange credit victims has been mentioned here, and I feel that it is organically related, for example, because of the more than ten thousand evictions that have taken place in recent years. Obviously, this has cost Hungary a lot of children. In addition to the seven points, I could very much imagine that, as an additional point or as an eighth point, Madam Secretary of State could make a proposal with me, say, to extend the eviction moratorium until this social disaster situation is overcome, as I feel that this is such a serious and so serious problem affecting hundreds of thousands of lives on a daily basis, which also affects the indicators that we are debating now. So this is a 7+1. I have made a point, but I am also completely open in another direction. I suggested to professional representatives of the Ministry of Finance that the surplus of 100 billion per cent generated by the foreign exchange loan conversion in the National Bank of Hungary be grouped into a compensation fund from which the problems of these people could be corrected and corrected, or, where appropriate, by other means: to pay this profit on a German sample as a dividend, so it could also be paid into a compensation fund. I think that if these people actually succeed, they are no longer called BAR lists, not only to take them off this list, but to open up a lot of discounts to them, then at least their lives can be partly traced back to the way they were. This does not rule out and makes no need to correct, which I believe is the HUFing of these so-called loans at the rate of admission, but in the meantime, at least in Hungarian life, they could participate in the throbbing. I really find it unacceptable and untenable from a demographic point of view that these tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands, are left out of benefits, and, moreover, they have a much less chance of having children than those who are luckier than those who have not been involved in this disaster. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-03-19-136	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi in two minutes.
u2019-03-19-137	Thank you very much for the floor. When I said in my previous comment that you were offering a loan product to society instead of a housing register, a number of people were looking at me with outrage. In the meantime, while my fellow Members were speaking, I looked up the details of the agreement between the EBRD and the Hungarian Government, to which point 5 states: "The Hungarian Government refrains from introducing new laws or measures that may have a negative impact on the profitability of the banking sector. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, please reassure me that you did not choose a loan product as a family support solution to ensure the profitability of the banking system. I'm sure they can convince me, just try. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-19-138	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Pál Sigismund Barna in a normal time frame.
u2019-03-19-139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to congratulate the Secretary of State on the work she has done here in the past and on the fact that, as soon as the Prime Minister's announcement has been made, these laws are in place, which are capable of putting the family protection action plan into effect as soon as possible. In several cases, the opposition has visionized a population collapse, and they have said that there will be no result of the whole package that we would like. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to tell you that we survived Trianon, survived the Tatar and the Turk. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: The Fidest!]] And we'll survive the next century if we have these family protection packages and if we have faith. If we dare to be small! We follow the philosophy that your governments have followed, and we will really lose it, but we believe in the future, and we have faith that the Hungarian nation will be great again, and that the next century will be about Hungarians. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Only Petőfi...]] We're not planning numbers, it's not measuring. This reminds me of the most beautiful traditions in the Soviet Republic, as my fellow Member Hoppál recalled on 20 March that you are always involved in the details. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: That's the point!]] They destroy everything, they approach it destructively, and we dare to be small! They represent politics. They do not point out that there has never been such a system of support, how great this is for Hungarian families, but that they highlight details, confront them, confront them with other questions, inappropriate questions [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: This is called democracy! Antal Csárdi: I have a scandalous...]] and try to make the package look negative. The government acted and chose to support families instead of supporting immigration. It is not true what my colleague Varju said here, because on several occasions you have proved that you support immigration, but you wanted to break down the fence by your fellow Members. [[Antal Csárdi: I beg you! Don't miss Soros. Zsolt Gréczy: 86 thousand...]] They voted in favour of immigration in the European Union, but they voted in favour of quotas. Now, as the campaign approaches, you're going to be more careful, because you're going to see what people think about these issues. But it doesn't change the point, it doesn't change the point: when it comes to deciding or voting, you do represent immigration against the interests of the Hungarian people. And we Hungarians know what immigration means, because over the last centuries we have seen exactly what the wrong decisions of some of our leaders have resulted in when other ethnic groups were unaccounted for in certain southern or eastern areas. [[Zsolt Gréczy: 86 thousand so far, which...]] We also saw that when the shortage of labour in previous centuries was to be resolved by the introduction of our former leaders, what that meant, so when they wanted to solve it by immigration, what that meant. We want to do everything we can to make Europe's leaders realize that they choose not to choose immigration but to support families. Several people have said that there are all kinds of prognosis, people are falling, there is no result, but besides the fact that there is a result, several of my fellow Members have reported on this, and this has been shown in figures, if it had not been for government support in recent years, then there would have been a significant loss of population already. So, in any case, population loss has stopped, it's a very significant result. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition. Z. Carpathian Daniel: What are you talking about? Jesus Christ!]] And this is due to the policy of the past few years. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Your own people said that the population loss did not stop! Come in at the beginning of the debate.]] It's just as ridiculous what you say about emigration. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: With your own Secretary of State or debate! Come in at the beginning of the debate.]] A lot more people have migrated from neighbouring countries than from Hungary, and if we compare them, much less people have left Hungary. This family protection package is also suitable for young people who have undertaken to work in another country... Mr President, please! [[The president's ringing the bell. Dániel Z. Carpathian: What universe did you live in? Zsolt Gréczy: Has the population loss stopped? It's a joke, stand up comedy!]] If we compare the cost of young people who have taken up work in another country and have children there, whether in terms of food, education, health care or housing, if they come back to Hungary and take advantage of the subsidies introduced by government policy in recent years, then families are in a better position. [[Defiance and interrogations from the opposition.]] Maybe it's the average salary... Mr. President! [[The president's ringing the bell.]] The average salary may be lower than in Western Europe, but if you look at the package as a whole, it is certainly competitive what the government policy of the last few years provides for families. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Tell me you don't believe this.]] If you look at the reduction of the rent, you also mocked him, laughed at him all the time, laughed at him, mocked him, but the Hungarian people benefited. [[Crying from the opposition. Zsolt Gréczy: This is the funniest of all! The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2019-03-19-140	My fellow Members, please. It will be possible to give a return answer under civilized circumstances.
u2019-03-19-141	My colleague Bangón mentioned that she is raising three children. I respect you very much for this, but I have less respect for the fascist campaign against Hungarian families across the border with your family. [[A statement from the ruling parties: That's right!]] when he called on the Hungarian people on posters not to let Hungarians across the border in. That was the darkest campaign of fascist times. [[17 .30]] Again, I respect you very much for raising the three children, but I can't respect what you did back then. Mr Zsolt Gréczy tried to present the family policy of the Gyurcsány government in a positive way, proving with all sorts of numbers what the family protection support of the last few years meant. Several people told me how many kids they raise. That's why I'm telling you, I'm raising five kids with my wife. [[László Varju: Are you raising her too?]] So I do know what the family policy of the last 20 years meant, and if we add it numerically, we've never had child support like what we have now. It can't be compared. [[Laszlo Varju: Well, no!]] So apples and pears [[Zsolt Gréczy: Why isn't a child born?]] Fire and water. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Where is the child?]] You can't talk about it one day. And it's not just about money, it's about society finally honoring families, finally the family, the big family, it's not about shame, it's about walking down the street proudly. Believe me, it's very difficult when you have to go through with 3-4 crying children, and everyone looks, they look out in rows, and you feel really weird. [[László Varju: Why do you feel strange?]] Now there is finally an environment where society appreciates families, they turn to them with understanding, they feel that this is an important issue, they feel that this is a matter of fate, without it there will be no Hungarian resurrection. So this is a very, very important thing, much more important than financial support, but it is also crucial, because families need it, in order to [[László Varju: Let's go home to Újpest and see those families!]] so that many children's commitment does not automatically mean that one chooses poverty, because earlier, under the Gyurcsány government, it was that many children meant poverty in the first place. Many said that this whole plan is an illusion, and the Hungarians will disappear, and we will not be a nation of ten million, but a nation of five million or eight million. [[László Varju: This is what Viktor Orbán said!]] I'm not a psychic, I don't know how many million people we're gonna be, but we can be a successful nation even if our soul count is a little less than ten million. The world is changing very quickly. We're also not much of a psychic to tell you what's gonna happen. Whether we go on Váci Road from Újpest or to Palace, there were factories there 30 years ago, today there are office buildings. We do not know how the world will change, how the labour market will turn out, what this whole social arrangement will look like, but we will at least be able to say on this side of the horseshoe that we can tell our grandchildren that we have done everything responsibly to ensure that the Hungarian nation rises. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-19-142	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian in a normal time frame.
u2019-03-19-143	Mr President, Dear House, It is very difficult to speak several hours, 5-6 hours after the start of the debate, because my fellow Member, who has just spoken, was not here, so he did not respect this debate by following his dynamics from the beginning. Madam Secretary of State, who I think was heroic, even though we disagreed on a lot of things and we were here with some opposition representatives, and the dynamics were that we were trying to put the actual policy ratings a little behind the table. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Zsolt Gréczy said it!]] Yeah, we found common points. [[Noise from pro-government benches]] even if a number of trolls are lining up between the benches in the sense that when this debate is a little more relaxed, it stands up and makes statements that will bring this debate back to the actual political classifications. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Like Varga-Damm Andrea!]] I do not suggest moving this debate further towards the issue of immigration, as I have said that the Fidesz-KDNP alone is accountable for immigration. Once again, I do not want to talk about settlement bonds, family members of policyholders, because this is a very far-reaching debate, I do not think it is closely linked to the agenda, but with your protections, you should account for the public quota of people registered by the HCSO and the Immigration and Nationality Office. And I am not referring to a few hundred people of Venezuelan Hungarian origin with Hungarian ancestors, but to those who have nothing to do with Hungary, the tens of thousands who come here as guest workers. According to this week's news, another regulation has made it easier to import foreign workers. So I'm not sure I'd be proud of this flow chart if I were you. But, my fellow Member, coming in here and telling us in a professional debate that the population loss in Hungary has stopped is something quite catastrophic! I would ask you to read it back from the record, as we have been discussing precisely the dynamics of population loss in the last few hours with Mrs. State Secretary, prepared professionals. About the fact that there was a record year two years ago, when, unfortunately, the natural weight loss was over 40,000 in some brutal proportions. So, to visualize beyond the stargate in some dimension is to stop the population loss here! Well, I wish you were right, fellow Member. I don't want to hurt you personally, so don't take it that way. I just wanted to draw your attention to the fact that in the dynamics of the debate something positive has started, and we have really come to the point that every faction may consider the issue of Hungarian population loss the most serious problem, which is also a consequence, and we are arguing about the consequences of this. But I see a number of neural points where, using your language, you can't look your grandchildren in the eye on that particular day and you can't sleep because you didn't do everything you could, even though the warning, warning word reached you in time and arrived. What do I mean? The tenement program mentioned 100 times will be a long-term debate between us. It is quite clear that for certain social groups, segments, the amount of the CSOK discount is not available, 10+10 is also essentially or not available under 350-400,000 payments, or under very, very difficult, narrowing conditions. It will simply be blown off by bank administrators and driven away by the applicant concerned. We also need to see that extending the preferential loan to certain circles, from the upper middle class uphill, can bring discounts, I do not dispute this and I was not afraid of them. But my request is to consider those who do not want to say badly, not your social group, not your lucky circle of acquaintances, business partners, friends. Indeed, there are millions of people here in Hungary, and there are still millions of people. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that while the fee for a rent in Budapest, as mentioned above, is an average of 149 thousand forints, this is a figure of one and a half years ago from the closed year, until then, I would also like to say that the average salary is 217 thousand, which covers the same period. It's an average. The average feature of this example is that if four people in a five-person company earn 100 thousand forints and one person earns 1 million forints, then the average figure is that employees get an average of 280 thousand forints here. But the big thing is that although the average income during the period under investigation was 217 thousand, 3 million people remained below it. Because they didn't necessarily look at the median, they didn't look at the most typical values, but they drew a simple average, and we throw it as boomerangs in Parliament, but it doesn't answer the real life situations of real Hungarian people. The salary of 3 million people is below the average of which it is possible to pay a rent in Budapest. And then they didn't pay the rent, then they didn't put the cost of life in the system, especially the cost of having children. Madam Secretary, I know I'm banging partly open gates, but, I beg you, also think about how long, while planning a demographic turnaround, it will be possible to keep the highest sales tax on child rearing products required to maintain population development in all of Europe. Brutal, 27 percent, these articles are practically subject to a penalty tax. We have calculated, and I do not mean to say that a few billionaires, but about one or two ten billion dollars, would be faced with a budget burden in the short term, at most in the medium term, if this 27 percent VAT would be reduced to a 5% level not to be reduced to the EU. Then, obviously, EU fights can be continued in order to reduce further, but there is an untenable and very bad symbolic message that 27 percent of the VAT on child-rearing articles is VAT. We mentioned home savings. Besides, I would like to go back to this not just for the sake of young people, or I would like to force someone to say something about what will happen instead of saving for housing purposes, because, as we have said, very many of the LTP have collected the CSOK's share. I understand that there is a preferential loan now, from which someone may try to make an own contribution, but here we are talking about a loan, and in the case of LTP, a pre-emptive accumulation, which may not deepen the exposure as much as in the case of ongoing and cumulative loans. We mentioned the people in the condominium, who, without the state support of the LTP, cannot make very important investments, so let's think of a simple boiler change in the condominium. And there will be situations within a year or two that will be dealt with at parliamentary level, at government level. I would also like to say that we are talking about a very broad social group with regard to foreign exchange issuers. You have to send clear messages here. In my view, the Government of Hungary and Parliament cannot send the message that they will give up these people, because obviously, the discounts, the ones listed here, will not be able to use them either because they are on the KHR list or because they are in such financial circumstances that they are not able to move from one to the other. In order to say positive things, I am not at all against it, I will support everything in this package, which is truly forward-looking, even if I extend this design to a used family car with quality parameters instead of a new car, so we will have a number of amendments. But in terms of fertility rates, let us now go beyond the fact that after a temporary increase there was a halt or a minimal decrease, and this is also influenced by the fact that we are looking at Eurostat data or HCSO data. [[17.40]] Obviously, one of them follows the classic line management, so it tries to compensate for this series by the number and volume of those registered in Hungary afterwards, and the European is typically only looking at the given place of residence, since it does not deal with a declared or declared nationality on a statistical basis. That's the minimum deviation. We could argue on this for a very long time that 1,53 became 1.49. I am interested in the process, so where the whole process is going, and I see that this package of measures, if extended to all segments, could bring the fertility index up to 1.65, but at best up to 1.7, but the fact is that it is still not long enough to maintain the population of 9 million in the long term. Without slowing down the emigration spiral, we will certainly not be able to achieve any meaningful results in this area. So with regard to the fertility rate, I have targeted the level in myself and in my head in Latvia, Lithuania and Iceland. We are talking about 1,74, 1.69 and also 1.74 levels, so where Hungary goes, and now it is in the middle of the road, the end point is not an outstanding miracle in the current Europe. This would be absolutely attainable with predictable family policy, but I'm going to get you to do what you can: otherwise, try to bring into the Fundamental Law from the benefits of the family support system, be these measures sustainable through government cycles, but do not bring in the steps that are favourable to the more fortunate social classes, but those that are widely accepted, which are otherwise subject to the agreement of all of Parliament. There are such things. Also, although we have been repeated here in terms of the number of live births, that it is not the best indicator and that we do not use it, in the spirit of fairness, I would like to respond both ways. On the one hand, I would like to say to the left-wing parties that I do not consider a good and fortunate parallel that, in the period 2002-2010, 50 thousand more children are undoubtedly presented as a kind of positive government indicator, and it is quite simply, ladies and gentlemen, that the number of women of childbearing age was significantly more extensive in that period, and, fortunately for Hungary, more children were born than now. At the same time, I did not say that the current government would do everything that could be done, as I mentioned the rental program, the house savings and a number of measures that could otherwise convey the general sense of security, which is essential for young Hungarians to stay home and want to have children. I would like to thank Mrs State Secretary once again for her support during the long debate. I trust the personal evolutions in which such important areas will end up being carried by people with the right attitude, and I see that there may be sufficient openness here in relation to certain ideas. For me, the pattern in this regard is a Banai Péter Benő, a Varga Mihály minister or a Simicskó István. So don't get in trouble because of me, but I'm saying that their debate culture can handle these areas. I would not bring up any counter-examples now so that the debate can stay in this room, and I will even be careful with my eyes so that I do not offend someone, so I will just say that I would like to thank you for the position you have shown over the course of several hours. At the same time, I ask for sufficient openness and expectation of ideas and ideas. My request is not to be afraid of opposition proposals, in my opinion, a strong government does not refer back to other government cycles ten years ago, since it has had ten years to bring its own dominance and power into the realm of reality. A powerful government is elegant, inclusive of positive, constructive ideas. However, I ask you not to be offended by my fellow Members, that, yes, there is criticism of the pro-government proposals, and even other ideas come to light. I would like to say that this is called democracy. I am very sorry that in some segments this must be re-entered in Hungary, but I am determined to support any good proposals for the future in Hungary. I can say that on behalf of my faction. However, we will harshly demand professional responses to our claims that are not included in this package, but they are essential for the restoration of the Hungarian future, the fallen tree of life, and therefore we cannot allow even a few of them. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-19-144	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély in a normal time frame.
u2019-03-19-145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would also like to start by saying that perhaps this is how Parliament should operate. Even if we don't agree and there are yelling at each other, then perhaps this is how we should have discussed, let's say, in the slave law, that the representatives of the governing party are sitting in such a large number. They say that the State Secretary will sit through the debate that we have not seen many times in recent years, and this should be a compliment to the Secretary of State that we do not usually experience on the part of the government that, if we sit here for, say, hours, on a bill since 11:00, he will sit down on the part of the governing party and even react during the debate. This should continue in the next period. On the other hand, we have repeatedly said that, notwithstanding the fact that they say that their package is, after all, the best and most effective, I think that criticism and suggestions can be made by the opposition and would be acceptable. I've been sitting here for the fifth year, and she's told me several times in a family support law that we should put in amendments, and if those amendments are like that, the government will consider it. I would not say that in the last five years or the last nine years, the opposition has made only proposals for amendments which could not have been voted on or had points that could have been supported. And I would just like to say that my fellow Member Peter Hoppál said that the opposition has no idea of amending the family support system. Yes, there is! I know that the Dialogue also submitted a package separately, DK also submitted a package separately, and we submitted it yesterday. And then let me really explain it to you, and believe me, there are... I say that the whole package should be supported, and we say that having children... I add that everyone puts their hands on their hearts, you know very well that having children is not for money. In this we agree that the Hungarian people love their family and love their children, and I do not think that there is a debate between either of us. How to support Hungarian families can be an argument between them, and there can be an opposite. I told you yesterday in front of my agenda that this package of laws that we have submitted can be divided into three parts. The first part concerns support for childbearing and coordination between child rearing and employment, which has 8 points. Support for childcare and the care of close relatives is point 2, and this also has 8 points. Part 3 is the creation of housing support. And then let's go through it point by point. The first is to support childbearing and to coordinate child rearing and employment. We initiated to raise the maternity allowance, which has not changed in 11 years, which the mother receives when she gives birth to her child, to HUF 300,000. This amount shall be paid in two instalments. The first can be given to the mother when she is still pregnant and the second half when the child is born. This is also important because these amounts have lost a lot in real terms over the last few years, and if we multiply the amount of HUF 300,000 that 90,000 children are born in a year, they will not shake the Hungarian budget. With a sum of HUF 300,000, you can buy it seriously enough for the newborn child. Point 2 of this package after the birth of the child is a doubling of the supplementary leave due to fathers. We have talked a lot about this, how much we should support more work, more tasks for fathers in raising children, and how much help it could be for families, especially when the newborn comes home to the family. I think that a family can experience the most beautiful and difficult time, and in this beautiful time both mother and father should be involved. The third point I have already mentioned is to increase the number of fertility treatments and their state support. I think that we agree with Mrs Secretary of State on this, that, since the number of these couples is increasing, and not only in Hungary, but also in Europe and globally, in developed countries, there is not enough money to be spent on this group, because it has the greatest potential for the birth of desired children. [[17.50]] The next point is a substantial increase in the number of places available for the day care of the child, including in the workplace, the speeding up of the development of nursery spaces, and this is closely linked to the next point, the flexibility of nursery and kindergarten opening hours. We are talking about precisely when civil servants are required to enter the workplace at 6:45 by the current amendment of the law that has been in force since 1 March. I do not think that there are many institutions in Hungary today where we could see, say, at 6:00 a.m., that a child could be placed in an institution by his mother or father. So, this flexible opening hours, I think, should basically be resolved. The next point, though, is a painful part, the abolition of the nursery care fee, which you have introduced, the protection of young children at work greater than ever before until the child is six years old. I think that this is due to a change in the Code of Work. There must be a high degree of protection for families where both mothers and fathers work. The last point of this package is also to provide benefits and benefits to those living in a partnership. This was highlighted because 42 percent of the born children now come from a partnership, and if I get it right, there will also be a clause in the baby shower program that couples have to live in marriage in order to benefit from this support system. We do not want to distinguish between family and family, and I think that if they have a child in a partnership, we should consider it at least the same family as if they were engaged in marriage. The other large group is childcare, supporting the care of close relatives, which also has eight sub-sections. The first point is the family allowances on the subject, which were last raised in 2008, the Socialist Government in 2008; we are talking about family allowances, children and children. I am also saying that this support system has been devalued. I would also like to highlight the increase in the minimum pension, which is HUF 28 500, and all social support is calculated from this. It is very important that this amount is finally raised, and we will now replace the lost 11 years during which it is virtually devalued. The next point is the introduction of an extra monthly allowance for starting school, which could be called an extra family allowance. I've had 13 months' family allowance before. Allow me to do so here, because my fellow Member Peter Hoppál said that children will receive the textbook free of charge. If you look at it, there are these surveys that parents are asked, and 80 percent of the parents surveyed say they'd rather pay for the textbook just to get a good quality textbook. [[Zsolt Gréczy: That's right!]] And your child could learn from a freely chosen textbook. I think that if parents said in such a high proportion that they would prefer this kind of system, then it would be considered on the part of the government to listen to this. The other thing is that the free textbook goes up to HUF 12,000, it has to be paid to all parents over HUF 12,000, and we know as a practicing mother that, let's say, it costs 5-6 thousand forints to buy a language book, and we're only talking about one book. Basically, this free textbook isn't true. Another point of this package is the priority support for single people and family allowances for permanently ill or disabled children. Yeah, I know, they're gonna say this was staged at the end of the year last year. You know that's not true. The amendments that we have tabled should be taken forward, and I recommend it for consideration, and I think that it should be dusted down and supported. Making family tax relief fair is also a way of providing support to those who are not now able to enforce it from their income, since they do not have so much income. With reference to the KSH, the current news is that the pay gap between, say, Budapest and the eastern part of the country, and if you look at what wage the employees are registered at today, now, according to the data on the website of the APEH, you can see that nearly 50 percent of the employees are registered in Hungary today at minimum wage. Renewal and increase of transport support for people with disabilities: this support, which has not been raised for many years, as has the family allowance. I have also said in my previous speech that more than half of the pediatricians have already been over 60 years and about 20 percent and one fifth of the doctors are already over 70 years old. We are faced with a serious crisis, which may mean that they are slowly coming out of areas of pediatric medicine where they are no longer able to carry out these tasks. The last point of this measure is the extension of the free catering of children in need to secondary school. We have repeatedly said that a child is not a child until the age of 14, but until the age of 18, and that this should be taken into account on a needy basis. The third package of measures is around housing, and it has eight points. The first and one of the most important: the ban on eviction of families who have children. I was sad to note that I asked a written question to let us know how many small children in recent years had to be separated from their family because they had been evicted. [[László Varju: Yes!]] Unfortunately, you refused, Mr. Secretary, you did not answer my question. He basically said that they don't have that kind of data, which we don't believe, and I think that this should be the primary goal of never, under any circumstances, evicting families who have children, and it is precisely the greatest trauma and the fact that even the child is being removed from the family. The following is the restoration of housing support and debt management aid. We know very well that you were the first to abolish these two support schemes when the social security system was redesigned. The third is the treatment of homelessness, ensuring that homeless people have access to independent and sustainable housing. This is exactly the day we read about the fact that the criminal homeless law adopted has failed completely, and I think that this is the law that shows how cruelly they can treat the most needy. Increase support for young adults who are out of child protection care, develop a social housing system, develop high-quality, affordable, public-owned apartments. Several opposition fellow politicians have talked about the situation in large cities in Hungary today, and how long it will take, 20-30 years before a young person gets an independent apartment, and one of the best methods should be rent support and a social housing program in Hungary. We can't say that we are successful yet, because nearly 40,000 new apartments should be built in Hungary in order to maintain the quality of the apartments, while there is another part of them, which we didn't mention in the course of the day, that there are about 550 thousand apartments in Hungary today, which are completely empty. Reintroducing a modern housing savings system, here we discussed the abolition of housing savings banks. The last point of our package is to broaden state aid. Every year, Habitat's report on housing poverty, the state of housing is constantly published for the renovation and energy modernisation of existing homes. I think that this report is issued by an organisation that is completely independent of politics, and that we can read about increasing housing poverty year after year in Hungary, and that is why it is very important that the government pays more attention to the modernisation of the existing housing stock. I am now asking you to support this package of proposals, and I do not think that there is a point that should be rejected. These points are about how to help families with children in Hungary today. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[18.00]]
u2019-03-19-146	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm in a normal time frame.
u2019-03-19-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Again, the debate of this law is about only four paragraphs. The content of the Government Decree, which has been tabled by the Secretary of State, cannot be interfered with by Members of Parliament. This means that the detailed rules of this family protection action plan do not belong to the members of Parliament, so that the opposition representatives could do nothing but express their opinion on a system that could be changed in an unlimited time and quality at any time, which has not yet entered into force. We cannot propose or propose amendments to this system, as who would be the opposition to these four paragraphs, to which Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure applies. § 2 of the Act on entry into force would present any amendment proposal. I would like to tell you that you protested that I considered this proposal to be an election campaign element, but if I may, I would now support this with further reasons. On the one hand, I would like to say to you, pro-government Members, that I have not heard any opposition representatives in this House today, who did not say that we would support this bill. So all the comments that assumed this were unfounded. Everyone has said that we will support this bill of four paragraphs, after we discuss this only. I have also heard countless fellow Members say that there is no Member of Parliament who has not seen the extremely serious, long demographic problem that has existed for decades, which is a serious threat to our nation's survival. I would like to say that in the last ten months, when the law on national higher education, the courts, prosecutors' accounts, migration laws, administrative law, the debate on the law on homeless people, the complete restructuring of the organizational system of the Hungarian Defence Service, the trial of domestic law, the amendment of the Btk., the bill on anti-immigration measures, three or four people sat in the pro-government lines. Now, thank God, twenty-two. This is a very big development, which means that for some reason a bill of four paragraphs is now more interested in government representatives than those legislative proposals that we have discussed in the last ten months that are extremely important to the Hungarian people and to Hungarian society. I would like to say further, not on the proposal, because it contains only a few thoughts, which have not yet entered into force, and which, in fact, would try to show as an electoral campaign element that the government is only considering the protection of families by borrowing and interest-rate subsidies. We all know this is a decade-old problem. The Jobbik faction has been sitting in Parliament for nine years, and my fellow Member Dániel Z. Kárpát has counted it, talking about demographic crisis among the walls of this House over two hundred times. I should like to point out that, to date, there has been no reaction in this respect, this was the first proposal where, with such emphasis, representatives of the government and colleagues have forgotten this as a fundamental problem. I would like to draw attention to the fact that today is March 19. This bill can practically be voted in the next two weeks, and it is a big question that this certain unlimited and in any way variable package of government decrees or government decrees, which the Secretary of State spoke about, will enter into force on 1 July. If, this month, as the fundamental law of this package, we can vote for it, then why can't we, say, put it into effect on 1 May? I hope so much that the outcome of the 26 May election will not influence the government to maintain these measures in force from 1 July or not. I have just said that I would also like to follow my fellow Member Béla Turi-Kovács. He rightly drew attention to some of the problems which could be a cause for abuse in relation to the provisions of the government regulation which has been recognised, but which has not yet entered into force, and I would like to draw attention to further interesting circumstances and circumstances. My fellow Members, particularly my fellow members of the Government, raised the issue of national survival in their speeches, and how the survival of our nation and our language is a top priority for all the responsible political factors in Hungary today. Then we are always accused of being pro-immigration and, by the way, we would like Muslim society to flood Hungary. Here's the problem. In this non-Enforced government decree, the circle of beneficiaries we are talking about and who, in the event of the birth of children, benefit from the interest subsidy resulting from the Hungarian taxpayer's budget support or from the full remission of the loan from the Hungarian taxpayer's money, concern the following social circles of beneficiaries other than the members of the Hungarian nation: foreign persons residing in Hungary with the right of free movement and residence, and third-country nationals with stateless status. Please tell me why, in order to preserve the Hungarian nation, these two conditions have been incorporated into this government decree. It is not that the Hungarian nation should not be burdened by many, many foreigners who are moving here, and then will have children here, and they will not give birth to one and a half children per family, but five or six children; then would you like to tell me why this provision supports the issue of the survival of the Hungarian nation and the elimination of demographic problems? But I'll tell you something else, because I just told you that the provisions of the Government Decree are not to be affected by Hungarian Members, but do you imagine the situation where someone will and will go there and, say, adopt three children who are 17 years old, and according to the government decree, they will only have to raise these children in their own household until the age of 18 and they will receive 10-20-30 million forints? Can you imagine this situation? Unfortunately, in Hungary today, children over three or four years of age are not adopted by Hungarian families on their own initiative, out of love and desire for a child. Anyone who knows this system knows it. I would very much like the children in the Hungarian foster home to be not subject to business under this government decree. It's in this government decree. Do me a favor and take a look at the detailed rules. Perhaps my fellow Member, Mr Zsigmond, said that we always talk about the details, and the details... [[To intervene:]] I'm sorry, Paul Brown, I apologize, we're lost in the details, he just said. But my fellow Member, Béla Turi-Kovács, told me that they would look at me to see who would like to give these benefits. Not by accident, he was a lawyer for 50 years, he knows exactly what a special situation can be when someone doesn't take advantage of these opportunities, but abuses them. I'd like to talk to you about the relationship between family protection and fertility. They may not often encounter these studies, but it is an indisputable phenomenon that the fertility of Hungarian men has fallen in an extraordinary way in recent decades. There are many reasons for this, especially the stress of compliance, which makes it more difficult for them to father children. Simply living conditions are so expensive, and in society there are such high expectations of a family's quality of life and standard of living, which brings a multitude of men into a compulsive situation that they must fulfil. [[18.10]] They have to work significantly more than 8 hours a day; they have to put up with the idiotic boss and, say, disorganized work, they have to bear that prices have increased incredibly rapidly since they were 90, and wages have not followed. It takes a lot more work to create a decent, not even Western European, just a decent life for your family. This constant compliance requirement has led to the creation of infertile masses in Hungarian society. And then we didn't talk about female infertility, which can also be very much due to social causes, very largely due to problems, insanity or mistreatment from the health care system. I would like to make it clear that if we are thinking in family protection, thinking in a whole society and thinking in a nation, then let us not come to this House with a methodology of a bank loan, but let us look at structurally, complexly, for all factors, at the problems of the system which, by the way, Parliament and government can jointly eliminate, give to people and society. And believe me, without such a suggestion, fertility can increase, and the willingness to have children can also increase. I would like to remind you of two very important findings in a study published on 15 October 2018. One is the following: political ideologies harm the investigation of demographic issues, not only because population is an incredibly complex issue, but also because only factual data should be taken into account. Another statement: Demographic issues must be examined in conjunction with health, pension systems, education and reflect on real social changes, and measures must be long-term. I would build my last thought on this last sentence. According to this, the Government decree provides for children born by 31 December 2022 and the benefit available. There have been numerous speeches about the fact that today we are about 1.5 in fertility. But in order for the demographic shift to take place here, it would be necessary to reach a minimum of 2.2 in terms of fertility rates. This means that I have read the studies on this, and this trend cannot be reversed within ten years. But if the trend cannot be reversed within 10 years, between 1 July 2019 and 31 December 2022, in three and a half years, what do you think this demographic issue will bring us forward? Do you really think this trend will reverse in these three and a half years? ! I don't think there's one person among you who would say yes to that answer. But, please, if that answer can't be yes, then it can't be that it's really part of an election campaign, an election campaign, and you think that people who, unfortunately, can't get involved in this system, but they see that the government has such devoted plans, the satisfaction of it is also increasing, not just by those who can really participate. Finally, let me mention that if the government had seriously thought that, in the long term, it wanted to implement a family protection action plan, if it had already used such a militaristic term, it would not have been possible, for example, for Members of Parliament to create a working group from countless professions who would examine all aspects of demographic problems and propose to the government that if it really wanted to solve this issue in the long term and seriously, we should, together, take the steps that could be carried out very effectively by the end of the cycle, indeed, in order to preserve our nation, and not even as part of a political pamphlet. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-19-148	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congressman László Varju in a normal time frame.
u2019-03-19-149	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Dear House, Indeed, we all have a responsibility for Hungarian families belonging to the European Union community. And with the very idea and the thought that the opinion of the two and a half million people who supported the opposition should be here before you this afternoon, I think that you have presented it well and that you have given it opportunity. However, given the fact that demographic issues, which are closely linked to the intention for which you have brought the proposal before us in only four paragraphs, it is necessary and worthwhile to extend it. That is why, when, based on this recognition, the Parliament is looking for a solution for all the families of the country and not just for one half of it, in the growing economic conditions, I think it is important to take it into account and therefore I recommend that you pay attention to our T/5354. A draft law that may help you, and in view of that, we can indeed move towards a solution, while it is a long time before the result is achieved. But since we are talking about a long time, we have a shared responsibility, and it is worth the time and energy to do so. In our first paragraph, we are explicitly talking about the need to significantly increase budgetary resources according to the possibilities of economic development spent on education. Here, I think that the opportunities that can be created in this way either in higher education or in vocational training are of particular importance. This includes, for example, the fact that we are proposing to extend the teaching obligation to 18. But it also includes that no remuneration can be asked for the first degree. But the family support system must ensure that further education is not dependent on the social situation of the family. So one important area is education when we talk about this issue. We cannot ignore it, and we are therefore proposing it in this law, and in the context of prevention, healing and after-treatment, of course, it is necessary to fill its shortcomings in the health system and move forward. And here, I believe, there is already a social consensus that, as a first step here, substantial wage development is needed in order for the situation to change. There is a need to change the functioning of the labour market in accordance with the rules of the European labour market. Taking into account the conditions of the freedom of research, high-quality education, guarantees, domestic industry, domestic agriculture, efficiency of domestic service, and accelerated growth, steps must be taken. We believe that the slave law is a major obstacle to making substantial progress, and we are therefore proposing to withdraw it. Hungarian families belonging to the European Community have the right to obtain basic public utility services regardless of their social or financial situation. Everyone should have the option without remuneration, in a lane system, in three parts... of which the first band contains the amount of service provided to all without remuneration, the second determines the amount of average consumption and the subsequent remuneration, and the third determines the amount of remuneration after average consumption. [[18.20]] This would allow us to make substantial progress in this area so that a change in life and quality can be achieved for many people. Hungarian families belonging to the European Community have the right to have time to be together. This includes changing the way you propose to the labour market and, to be exact, changing the way you have already decided. For reasons such as family members, sickness, disability, old age, or any other reason, we are also proposing long-term care for people who are incapable of caring for themselves, care for the caring family member, recognition of their working time, employment and adequate remuneration. And to reconnect with the XV. Mr László Hajdu, a district example, mentioned by my fellow Member, is that a serious programme is needed in order to improve the quality of housing, partly by launching a social and partly by setting up a rental scheme, and by ensuring access to the first apartments, and that the social rent does not exceed the minimum wage of 50% of the minimum wage. Social housing can be extended to a maximum of ten years, for example, that is what we are proposing in this bill. In Hungarian families belonging to the European Community, each child is entitled to the right to three times a day of warm food, appropriate clothing, play, play, study and culture. Therefore, we propose to increase the amount of family allowances and schooling allowances paid from 1 January 2019 by 50%. Therefore, on the basis of the idea that, following a substantive debate on this very important subject, the government wants to extend the draft law of four paragraphs, because it really wants to improve the situation of families, we propose that these proposals we make should be taken into account and accepted as far as possible by discussing the amendments. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-03-19-150	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm for a two-minute comment.
u2019-03-19-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I know that the pro-government representatives are bored, but I would like to present one more aspect, because we are discussing the bill and the bill contains two very important sentences. One sentence relates to the fact that the State has a ready-to-pay guarantee for these loans and the other is that the credit institution cannot ask for any other guarantee in addition to this ready-to-pay guarantee. You all know that if no other guarantee can be requested, then these properties, whether you like it or not, will be free of charge, because there is no legal possibility to register the ready-paying guarantee or to include the ready-paying guarantee in any way on the ownership sheet. This means that people who might want to take advantage of this situation can do so, even if criminal proceedings may result in their real estate being rewritten. And I will not mention that, after the very high number of those in Hungarian society according to the surveys, especially in the young population, who are about to migrate from Hungary, if they do so to sell the property, because they will be free of burden, the ready-to-pay guarantee will remain on the burden of the state, then in fact the Members of Parliament have given the opportunity to people who do not live but would want to abuse this institution, that the debt will be left, that the property is no longer available, that there is no longer a ready-paying guarantee against whom. Because, let's face it, the European implementation system is theoretical, but in practice it is hardly. As a result of my fellow Member Béla Turi-Kovács, I thought that if these two substantive provisions are already contained in the bill, I should at least draw the attention of the governing parties and the government. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-19-152	Thank you, Congresswoman. I ask the honourable Parliament that someone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a candidate. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mrs Katalin Novak to comment. It indicates that, of course, yes. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2019-03-19-153	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I'm looking at the watch now. This debate has been going on for over seven hours. Thank you, everyone, for holding on. Thank you, everyone, who has been part of the debate from the very first moment and also the person who joined on the road. It was indeed instructive and interesting to listen to this debate, to participate actively throughout it. So thank you, everyone, who has been here and who has supported me, and who, with his presence, has honored this very important subject, I think. I also thank the pro-government representatives in particular for their presence in such a large number, and I thank them for their support. Thank you for your comments, suggestions and constructive criticisms. I think they can be useful, and you can learn from them. It would have been good if it had been relatively uniform in the quality of more than seven hours, and we did not have to experience very big lows or ups in the process, and to listen to both the contributions that are completely lacking in professionalism and which highlight demagoguery and which lead in insulting each other. But we're in Parliament, so we're gonna have to deal with this. It would have been nice if this debate had been a little more united in this regard, but I am glad that there were at least parts of it that contained meaningful contributions and that we could also maintain respect for each other. I think it is a serious achievement that we have been able to agree on certain basics. If we can say that every faction that has honoured us with its participation because let us say that there was a faction of which no member has participated in any moment of today's debate; this was a faction of dialogue, of which no representative has ever been here in any part of the debate, I think we should also not go without saying who were here, which represented at least one person in at least part of the debate, all of them have confirmed that the demographic population situation is a serious challenge, who is our most important question of fate, who is at least one of the most important issues ahead of us. I think it's a serious achievement that at least we could agree on that. If I look back at who said what, then perhaps we can also agree that at least those of the opposition representatives who were here were able to say that helping families was important. Those of you who have had the opportunity to prove that by doing things have heard it a little more sceptically, but at least that is what has been said here, let us say that we have at least come to this point, that we have also agreed on this verbally. It is also natural and I think it is also right that we disagree on fundamental philosophical issues. Maybe it's okay that that's true. I have asked myself some of these basic philosophical questions, and I would only mention them on a list level. We do not agree that family policy is an instrument of social policy. We don't give family support on a need-to-know basis. I think it was an important step forward that we have been able to separate family policy from social policy, and there is a very strong social policy in Hungary today, we have a very strong social policy that supports people living in poverty or those who are in a difficult financial situation, which has a huge number of tools, but family policy is also working in parallel, not on a needy basis, but on the basis of helping everyone who has children in a responsible and child-bearing way. There is also a philosophical difference between us, and we cannot allow some opposition representatives to consider the linking of work and family support to be unprovoked. There is also a national consensus. The Hungarian people agree that if they have a job, and they do, we should link the work with family support. We don't think alike that we consider people to be adults. We think they're so grown up that they know what they need, they know what they want to use the funds they're getting. We think about this type of support. We give them opportunities, we don't tell them what to translate or what to live for. We also do not necessarily agree that we see private ownership as a forward-looking thing, not a rental relationship. We want as many people in Hungary to be able to live fairly in their own homes. [[18.30]] We also do not necessarily agree with politicians or opposition politicians in the former government that we are stretching as far as our blanket is concerned, we do not want to finance from debt the subsidies that we are introducing, so we want to keep this in mind in the future. Nor can we allow ourselves to believe that the responsibility of having children and the responsibility of raising children are primarily the responsibility of parents. We can help you, but the responsibility lies primarily with the parents. And we also do not agree that there are those who see immigration as a possible means of remedying demographic problems. We do not view immigration as such, so we do not see immigration as a possible means of solving demographic problems. I believe that the family protection action plan, in connection with which we have discussed this bill today, creates new opportunities, offers new opportunities. I would now also like to thank those who have been involved in our common thinking. Many family organisations, many experts, many of the actors on whom we can rely, and to whom I would like to thank for this. Of course, we can't handle everything right now, we can't put everything into these bill proposals, and I think that's why it's worth talking about what's on the table right now, and not about what could be on the table anyway, so we can't handle everything right now, of course. I think we have proven, since 2010, that this government has taken a series of family-oriented, family-friendly steps since 2010, and that one of these family-friendly steps is the adoption of this family-friendly action plan. I would like to ask you that, even if we do not agree on everything, if there are fundamental philosophical differences between us, let us not take away the good feeling of those who can rejoice; who can rejoice at these new opportunities, who see opportunities in the family protection action plan, who support this. Let us not take away the good feeling of the Hungarian people who are happy about these new opportunities, and we want more people to be able to take advantage of these opportunities. And in this sense, I also ask for patience that lasts for a certain period of time after the introduction, because then we will really see what these options mean in practice, how they work. I hope that these will be well thought out, and if we receive constructive proposals for the law, we will, of course, also examine them. The solution is not only in financial instruments but also in financial incentives, but also in financial support. It is also important that this country is able to operate as family-friendlyly as possible, so that is why I will conclude now that if anyone who has participated in this debate would still meet their family, they should have the opportunity to do so today. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-19-154	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The CCVI of 2011 on the right of freedom of conscience and freedom of religion and the status of churches, religions and religious communities will now follow. General discussion of the bill amending certain laws in connection with the amendment of the Act until closure. Presentation by representatives of Csaba Hende, Attila Barcza, Zoltán Demeter, István Bajkai, Pál Völner, Tamás Herczeg, Gábor Bányai, Richárd Hörcsik, Miklós Simon, Zoltán Fenyvesi, Károly Pánczél, Péter Ovádi, Zoltán Bóna, and Imre Vejkey and Lőrinc Nacsa T/5244. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Imre Vejkey, the author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor.
u2019-03-19-155	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On 12 December 2018, the Hungarian Parliament voted for the right of freedom of conscience and religion with 131 votes in favour, with two abstentions, and the CCVI 2011 on the status of churches, religious groups and religious communities. CXXXII of 2018 amending Act No. Law. T/5244. The aim of the Hungarian legal system as a whole is to ensure consistency between the legal standards of the CXXXII of 2018 on the right of freedom of conscience and religion and on the rights of churches, religious groups and religious communities, which will become effective from 15 April 2019. Act No. 5 of the Act amending its provisions. Ladies and Gentlemen, To this end, the following related laws have become necessary to amend them as follows. 1. III on social management and social welfare in 1993 It became necessary to amend the interpretation provisions of law since the church maintenance concept was added to the additional church legal persons resulting from the amendment of the church law. According to the amendment, in addition to the established church and its internal ecclesiastical legal entity, the persons of the Church may be the persons of St. for the purposes of church maintainers, which are the church law 9/D. § 5 and 9/F. They shall have an agreement, including social, child welfare or child protection tasks, within the meaning of paragraph 1 of this Article. 2. The 1994 XLV on war care. an amendment concerning the law which clarifies the concept of the funeral cost of the war invalid who has received an allowance by indicating the consideration of the funeral service provided by the religious community with legal personality in the funeral costs, at the same time setting the maximum amount of the funeral costs. 3. CXVII of 1995 on personal income tax an amendment to the law extending the concept of pension covered by the interpretation provisions of the SAI to benefits paid from pension funds established by registered churches and registered churches in addition to established churches. The amendment extends the scope of the personal income tax exemption to certain services of registered churches and registered churches in addition to established churches. In addition, the amendment uses the concept of a monk's order with religious personality instead of a registered order, given that a forming monk community, which has not yet received the necessary church approval, does not yet have legal personality. On the basis of the amendment, the provision covers only monk orders with legal personality. 4. CXXVI of 1996 on the use of a specific part of personal income tax as provided for by the taxpayer. The relevant section of the Act is added to the registered church and the registered church, as well as to the religious association. That's Sftv. the registered church, the registered church and the religious association, who are given a technical number at the request of the tax authority, are added. Legal persons with a technical number shall become beneficiaries in the year following the year in which the technical number is issued. 1 percent of all religious associations with technical numbers offered to civil society organisations should not have beneficiaries. The amendment states that for the first time, the religious association, the registered church and the registered church will be entitled to offer 1 percent of the property on the basis of the 2020 operative declarations. 5. XXXI of 1997 on the protection of children and child care management an amendment affecting the law, the interpretation of which includes the church maintenance concept of the additional persons of ecclesiastical law resulting from the amendment of the church law. [[18.40]] According to the amendment, in addition to the church which is now established and its internal church legal entity, the legal persons of the church are the members of the Gyvtv. for the purposes of church maintainers, which are the church law 9/D. § 5 and 9/F. They shall have an agreement including child welfare, child protection or social duties within the meaning of paragraph 1 of this Article. 6. The 1997 CXXIV on the material conditions for the religious and public activities of the churches. an amendment affecting the law, which extends the scope of the law to religious associations. The amendment re-regulates Article 2 (2). § ( 2) to (3) and ( 5) so as to ensure the extent of their scope in respect of the new ecclesiastical legal entities resulting from the amendment of the church law. The amendment ensures, on the one hand, that all religious communities with legal personality are entitled to 1 percent of the personal income tax offered by individuals and, on the other hand, that the addition of 1 percent of the offers from the central budget can take place in addition to the established churches for registered churches. The amendment establishes a differentiated system between established churches, registered and registered churches and religious associations. While the established churches continue to receive equal funding from the state and local government institutions in the performance of their public tasks, the registered and registered churches are entitled to this right only if and to the extent that the Church Act 9/D. § 5 and 9/F respectively. § 1 has concluded a specific agreement with the Government, and the agreement contains a provision to that effect to the extent specified therein. The religious association is also entitled to support if the Church Act 9/C. It has a specific agreement within the meaning of § (1) and provides for this subject matter. This amendment does not, of course, affect the churches, their internal legal entities, which maintain, register and register a public institution. 7. The 1997 CXL on museum institutions, public library provision and public education. an amendment affecting the law, which refers to the law of the Church and provides that its provisions must be taken into account when granting the aid. 8. The 1997 CXLI on the real estate register. a legislative amendment to ensure the coherence of the legal system. 9. The 1997 CLIV on health. an amendment affecting the law in which the concept of a religious organisation is deleted, while the concept of a religious association is introduced as a maintainer of a health institution. In the amendment of the Health Act, the concept of an organization engaged in religious activities is deleted, while the concept of a religious association is also introduced with regard to relations. The amendment replaces the concept of a religious community with the concept of a religious community with legal personality. The law is complemented by an enabling provision that this House will provide the government with the possibility of legislating to regulate hospital staff and hospital mental care activities. 10. The 1999 XLIII on cemeteries and funerals. a legislative amendment replacing the concept of a religious community with the concept of a religious community with legal personality. 11. The 2001 LXIV on the protection of cultural heritage. a legislative amendment that ensures the coherence of the legal system and uniform use of concepts by introducing the concept of a religious community with legal personality into the legal definition of a public collection. The amendment extends to all religious communities the scope of cooperation to protect and make available national memorial sites to all religious communities, to all religious legal persons. 12. LXXX of 2001 on the return of illegally exported cultural goods. an amendment affecting the law, by which the religious association is designated instead of the concept of an organization engaged in religious activity. 13. LXXXIV of 2003 on certain issues relating to the pursuit of health activities. an amendment affecting the law, whereby a religious association is designated instead of the concept of an organization engaged in religious activity. 14. The 2003 CXXV on equal treatment and the promotion of equal opportunities an amendment affecting the law, whereby the religious association is designated here, instead of the concept of an organization engaged in religious activity. 15. LXXXVIII of 2005 on voluntary activity in the public interest. an amendment affecting the law, which includes a provision to ensure coherence with the host organisation. 16. CXXVII of 2007 on General Sales Tax a legislative amendment extending the concept of public service to new church categories. 17. The 2010 CXXXI on social participation in the preparation of legislation. an amendment concerning the law, in which the provision is added to the registered churches and registered churches. 18. The 2011 LXVI on the State Audit Office. an amendment to the Act extending the powers of audit of the State Audit Office to religious associations. 19. XCIII of 2011 on the National Economic and Social Council. an amendment concerning the law, in which the term "religious community" is changed to established churches, specifying more precisely the circle concerned. 20. The 2011 CLI on the Constitutional Court. an amendment concerning the law, in which the law is added to the provision on new religious communities, on the motion for an opinion in principle on the illegal operation of the basic law. 21. The 2011 CLXXXI on the judicial register of civil society organisations and the related procedural rules. an amendment affecting the law, the purpose of which is to provide for the registration by a court of a registered church, a registered church and a religious association. With the amending provisions, the rules of procedure for the registration of church legal persons registered by the court are incorporated in Cnytv. On the basis of the amendment, the court shall publish its decision ordering or rejecting registration, or not yet finalising its decision to withdraw from the register. The period of appeal shall begin from this date of publication or from the day following that date. The amendment also provides for the succession of religious organizations becoming religious associations. 22. The 2011 CXC on national public education. an amendment affecting the law, in which new concepts are introduced. [[18.50]] With regard to the organization of religious education, the amendment distinguishes optional religious education from the teaching of faith and ethics that can be organised by all church legal entities and by established churches and internal church legal entities. The amendment replaces the concept of ecclesiastical legal person with the concept of an established church or an internal ecclesiastical legal person. 23. The 2011 CXCV on public finances. an amendment affecting the law, which creates the possibility of managing the treasury account for the new church categories established under the church law. 24. The 2011 CCIV on national higher education. a legislative amendment which amends the concept of a religious organization to a religious association in order to establish coherence. 25. The amendment to Act C of 2012 on the Criminal Code, which focuses on the use of the religious association instead of the religious organization, thus creating the increased protection of the professional member of the religious ceremony for the benefit of such an organization. 26. CCXL 2013 on the implementation of penalties, measures, certain coercive measures and infringement detention. an amendment affecting the law, which leads to changes in the legislation as a result of the amendment of the law on ecclesiastical matters, also in order to establish legislative coherence. Thank you for your patience, because finally, the last, the 27th, is the 2017 XC on criminal proceedings. an amendment affecting the law, the purpose of which is to establish legislative coherence by law as a result of the amendment of the law on ecclesiastical matters. Ladies and Gentlemen, From all of this, you can see that T/5244. The purpose of the bill is to ensure consistency between the standards at the statutory level, taking into account the provisions of the new law on ecclesiastical law that enters into force. On this basis, please support T/5244. Bill No. 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-19-156	Thank you, Congressman. I ask Mr. Miklós Soltész, Secretary of State, if you would like to comment. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-03-19-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear tableds, Thank you very much, on behalf of the authors, for the presentation of Imre Vejkey. He explained in detail the changes to the legislation that we had to make, by the way, to the CCVI of 2011 on the right of freedom of conscience and freedom of religion and the status of churches, religions and religious communities. CXXXII of 2018 amending Act No. Act No. 5 of 5 April 2019 and 16 April 2019 of the entry into force and entry into force of Act No. . The amendment constitutes a comprehensive amendment to the Church Act, creating consistency with the fifth amendment of the Fundamental Law, and also aims to close the regulatory issues arising from the Constitutional Court and certain international forums. According to the amendments, the state does not recognize, but registers churches in court proceedings. With the exception of the established churches, where the decision-making and discretion role of the Parliament is maintained, the amended law creates the legal possibility of registering other church categories, the registered church and the registered church, and provides the possibility of establishing religious associations on a subject basis in order to ensure the exercise of the Community right of religious freedom (sic!) . In addition, the amended law lays down as a principle that every community which defines itself as a religious community is entitled to the constitutional protection that the Fundamental Law provides to religious communities in the framework of free religious practice. Regardless of the organisational form, legal status or name of the legislation, it ensures the neutrality of the state, the separation, cooperation and framework of the state and religious communities, the broad autonomy of religious communities, the free self-determination of religious communities, the equality of religious communities and the prohibition of discrimination. In the area of cooperation between the State and religious communities, the State may also conclude, in order to carry out its public tasks, specific agreements with religious communities concerning certain sub-areas, and, with the registered churches, agreements of a comprehensive nature, which have been put into law on the basis of their historical past, social acceptance and weight, their organisation and social responsibilities, on the basis of which they become established churches. Under the bill, it is necessary to publish comprehensive agreements in a fundamental law. However, the amendment does not affect the legal status of the current established churches. The law provides a special preferential opportunity for the 16 religious communities currently awaiting the decision of the Parliament to be registered by a court. Dear Parliament, In view of the foregoing, amendments to the related laws have become necessary in order to ensure that the consistency and unity of the legal system is not compromised. The objectives and essential points of the bill submitted are set out below. The purpose of the bill is to establish amendments to the related laws in order to ensure the coherence of the legal system as a whole, following a comprehensive amendment of the law on ecclesiastical matters. I would like to highlight some of the proposals of the amendment. It clarifies the concept of church maintenance in terms of public service activities, especially in relation to public education and social and child protection tasks. As regards the offer of 1 percent of personal income tax by amending the relevant laws, it ensures that, in the future, in addition to the established churches, all religious communities with legal personality, such as the religious association, registered church, can offer the taxpayer so-called church 1 percent of personal income tax. In the case of religious communities with legal personality outside of established churches, the offer is possible from the next budget year, i.e. from 2020. The 1997 CXXIV on the material conditions for the religious and public activities of the churches. The amendment of law sets out the extent to which budgetary subsidies and financial benefits to be granted only to established churches have been granted to other religious communities with legal personality. The amendment regulates the powers of the Constitutional Court in the context of the provision of an opinion in principle on the unlawful functioning of the religious community with legal personality. The bill concerns the 2011 CLXXXI on the judicial register of civil society organisations and the related procedural rules. It also lays down detailed rules for the registration of religious communities with legal personality outside the churches. CCXL 2013 on the implementation of penalties, measures, certain coercive measures and infringement detention. The proposed amendment to the Act provides for a wide range of freedom of religion for prisoners and the associated powers of religious communities with legal personality. The 1994 XLV on war care. It becomes clear, by amending law, that the costs of the religious ceremony may also be eligible as funeral costs, as requested by the deceased or his family, on the basis of a funeral contribution in the event of the death of the invalids who have received an allowance. [[19.00]] To conclude: the bill is the 2014 LXVI on the State Audit Office. Law 1 and the 2011 CLI on the Constitutional Court. The sections of the law amending the law are fundamental. Dear tableds, We support this proposal on behalf of the Government, and thank you very much to all those who are not only monitoring this, but also supporting this amendment. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-19-158	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to László Vigh, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-03-19-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Following the 2010 elections, it was the task of the new Parliament to reform the legislation that constitutes basic social standards. Before the elections, it was known to everyone: if the Fidesz-KDNP Party Alliance is authorised, a completely new piece of legislation defining the framework for the necessary changes will be put in place at the top of the legislative hierarchy, rather than a significantly amended, value-neutral constitution in the course of the regime change. Following the adoption of the Fundamental Law, the necessary social support could start to renew the basic legislation and adapt it to the Fundamental Law. In this spirit, the CCVI of 2011 on the right of freedom of conscience and religion and on the status of churches, religions and religious communities was created. Law. The reason for the adoption of the new bill was not only compliance with the Fundamental Law, but also the elimination of abuses of business churches which used the loopholes left open by the legislation in force. With the creation of the new church law, the opaque situation has been resolved, and the founding and functioning of the abusive church has ceased. The Constitutional Court and certain international organisations have made comments on certain provisions of the new law. The government has tabled the necessary amendments to Parliament, which Parliament has recently adopted. The main point of the published law containing the amendments is that churches will not be recognised but registered, except in the context of legal proceedings, with the exception of established churches. The State may conclude an agreement with religious communities with legal personality which, due to their historical and social engagement, social acceptance, embedded status, organisation, their traditional public service activities and experience, are able to carry out a high level of public interest tasks which are the subject of the agreement. Thus, the State does not wish to interfere in the lives of legitimate religious communities, but it pays and supports organisations that carry out significant and effective work to achieve goals of social interest. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments to the above-mentioned bill must also bring with them the amendment of the related sectoral legislation, in order to establish coherent rules at the time of the entry into force of the law. This is precisely the consequence of the proposal before us by amending the relevant provisions of 27 laws. In addition to the terminological introductions resulting from the amendment of the church law, the proposal also makes some substantive changes. It clarifies the concept of church maintenance in the field of public service activities in particular in relation to public education and social and child protection tasks. The amendment regulates the powers of the Constitutional Court in the context of the provision of an opinion in principle on the unlawful functioning of religious communities with legal personality. The bill establishes detailed rules for the registration of religious communities with legal personality outside of established churches. CCXL 2013 on the implementation of penalties, measures, individual coercive measures and infringement detention. The proposed amendment to the Act provides for a wide range of freedom of religion for prisoners and the associated powers of religious communities with legal personality. The 1994 XLV on war care. It becomes clear that the costs of the religious service, as requested by the deceased or his family, may also be eligible as funeral costs, subject to a funeral contribution in the event of the death of the invalids who have received an allowance. Ladies and gentlemen, As has been said, the bill before us contains the necessary terminology transfers and provides for a number of substantive amendments which are mutually beneficial to citizens, religious communities and the state. In view of the mutual benefits, I ask Members, not only in the party of government, but also in the opposition, to adopt the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-19-160	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Anita Potochanya Kőrösi, from Jobbik.
u2019-03-19-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the context of the amendment of the Church Law, we have this bill, which makes amendments to 27 laws. We have heard all 27 amendments from the rapporteur's side in the expozee, so I do not wish to mention them separately. As has been said by the former pro-government speaker, most of the amendments to the 27 laws are about definitions and exchanges of words. However, I have a question for the author. In relation to the 1% provision of personal income tax, I would like to ask you, where the circle of established churches will be expanded to include religious associations, registered churches and registered churches, so they will be able to establish a technical number if they so request, the religious associations, which, I think, have already been able to provide for 1 percent if they have requested this as an association, i.e. as a civil society organization, and they will now write this down in the explanation of the 1 percent refund they will no longer benefit from why this is necessary. Why do they think that they should also have a technical number and that they should not remain among the beneficiaries of civil society organisations? I suspect that there is obviously much fewer associations with a technical number, since there is only the current church structure, and there is also one technical number, in relation to the national talent programme, 1% of the tax, the others belong to the beneficiaries of civil society organisations. So I would like to get an answer from the authors as to why it is necessary for the technical number to include religious associations. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-19-162	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2019-03-19-163	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I am speaking to this House not only as rapporteur, but as the lead speaker of the KDNP fact, because my colleague Imre Vejkey explained in detail what this law is about. [[19.10]] I would like to say or suggest to the attention of this House that it is clear from this bill that the churches are doing a great deal of work, what social involvement they have in Hungarian society, because these 27 laws cover an enormous number of areas of life. So it is clear that churches are involved in the provision of public tasks, such as education, higher education, public education, culture, health and many areas. I think we should also be grateful for the work that our churches are doing in these areas. I think it is important that after 2010, we have made an alliance with the churches. We have made these alliances with the churches in order to protect Hungarian society, Hungarian culture and Hungarian Christian traditions, precisely so that the Jewish-Christian roots that Europe is beginning to forget, we can preserve, and not only have an inheritance in Hungary, but also a future. This is why comprehensive agreements have been reached, which is why important programmes have been launched. And that is why, for example, when my fellow Member, Mr Gréczy, smiles sarcastically here at a speech by the lead speaker, that they were the ones who did not support the abolition of the business churches, they were the ones who did not support tightening up in this area. Therefore, it is very important that we are here now, and I ask them that their anti-church manifestations are now being left out of the hall and that they do not continue what we have heard from them in the debate of the Church Act in the fall or before. We can see that the public service of churches has increased significantly since 2010 because more than twice as much as in education and education, more than three times in the social field, more than four times in the area of child protection and more than eight times in the case of the foster family network, church maintenance and public service have increased, and churches have done extremely high and high quality activities in the area of catching up, spiritual care, faith education, faith activity and community building. Once again, on behalf of the Fidesz-KDNP fractional association, we are grateful for this service. With regard to the law, my better fellow Member asked me a question: here is the answer or the answer, as rapporteur, that I can answer. They can decide which 1 percent I want to collect from now on, as a civilian or as a church, they want to collect 1 percent on a technical number. It will be their own decision. That was just a quick pointer's answer. Returning to the regular speech of the lead speaker, the Christian Democratic People's Party supports this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-19-164	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2019-03-19-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I am very surprised by this preventive kicking of my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, which I do not fully understand in such a bill, as Mr Gréczy has not yet heard my colleague's opinion on the concrete draft legislation in any way. It seems that today he has the task of attacking whatever he has, even though he has not yet heard the opinion of his fellow opposition Members. Obviously, this draft legislation, this salad law, could also be approached by the fact that it is a matter of previous issues, technical clarification, 27 amendments to legislation, let us move on, because it is late anyway. Obviously, however, in addition to the elements to be supported, it also raises serious questions. On the one hand, I do not think it should be overlooked so quickly that there were indeed very serious debates about the adoption of the relevant legislation and its general debates in this House, such as the 2011 CCVI. His law, too. The opposition asked a lot of questions, and it disagreed with a lot of things. He said these concerns. To highlight one, I thought, for example, that it was amazing that Parliament should take a stand here in any sense in what church, what is not, what is not, what is not, what is an established church. To this end, very serious questions of faith, I think it is unfortunate that legislation interferes. Many questions were said then, fellow factions, we have made a lot of criticism. This is also partly due to the fact that, in many respects, they have backed back on various issues in December, and many things have not, of course, been the case, but there have been a lot of amendments to the relevant legislation. So, in this sense, it's an innovative step for you to take, it's certainly doubtful. It could therefore be said that this is a technical issue, but there are two points, two elements in this amending package, which are indeed very diverse and very controversial here by the pro-government speakers, which, however, raise further questions and are still not reassuring. One of these points is that the Secretary of State mentioned the separation of the state and church here, and the prohibition of discrimination concerns the state support of the charitable activities of the churches. With regard to religious activity, the law makes it clear that registered and established churches have additional resources compared to other church organizations, thereby violating fundamental rights standards of equality between religions, otherwise. The legislation adopted by you, on the other hand, makes it a state obligation to support the public activities of churches as of 15 April 2019. This appears to the State as a clear obligation. This is clear from the nature of the way in which the paragraph referred to above is stated. However, this proposal amends a number of sectoral legislation relating to the pursuit of public activities so that churches which are not incorporated may receive state aid only after individual agreements have been concluded and within the framework of them, while churches which are established in the same way as municipal institutions, i.e. automatically. Thus, non-established churches must enter into a specific agreement to receive state aid for health, social, educational, charitable, child and youth protection, cultural and sporting activities. I believe that this is in any event contrary to the prohibition of discrimination. This solution is also clearly not in line with the provisions in force from April, which constitute an obligation to support public activities. But I see you're already taking notes, so you're obviously going to answer these points. Obviously, the individual agreement is not an objective system of considerations in this respect, so there is definitely a question of discrimination. And the other question, which was referred to in this point, is true in a different context: it gives only established churches the opportunity to teach faith in a public educational institution. This is also unjustified from the point of view of excluding churches from teaching religious lessons, which are otherwise required to operate internationally at least 20 years of age in Hungary and 100 years of international activity on the other side. We believe that, therefore, what the Secretary of State has said, the separation of state and church, the prohibition of discrimination, I believe that these are very important values, important since the age of enlightenment, which we ourselves have shown. The other issue is that your proposals have served these values in all respects in recent years. Of course, what has been said in part from my fellow Member Nacsa and others who have spoken, we value and value the charitable activities and social involvement of the churches in Hungary. The legislative environment should be ensured accordingly, but this should be done in greater unity, unanimously, especially because it is a fundamental legislation, and by excluding discrimination in full, respecting the fundamental values of freedom of conscience and freedom of religion, not as your practice has shown in recent years. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause from the lines of DK and LMP.]]
u2019-03-19-166	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Zsolt Gréczy, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2019-03-19-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I begin by saying that freedom of faith is extremely important for the Democratic Coalition, that the free functioning of churches is extremely important, that the functioning of churches separated from the state is extremely important, and that the life of faith must be lived by everyone, his religion himself. This State has no right to intervene. [[19.20]] Of course, you do not represent this very widely since the Enlightenment, or even according to the European Christian Democratic tendencies, but this does not affect your conscience. I would like to point out that the Gyurcsány government has tripled the state support of Hungarian schools, theatres, libraries and churches across the border. I led the event where Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány announced this, and all the Hungarian church leaders across the border were here at that event and thanked me for this support. On the other hand, I would also like to point out to Congressman Nacsa that I am not sitting in a group association with Members who... as the publisher of the Hungarian Orange at that time called Kövér László a shark visit II. John Paul's arrival, and I'm not with those who said when they talked about the churches, the KDNP at the time of the Antall government, that they were on their knees, at their prayers, at the time of the Antall government! It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. So I refuse to attack. When we governed, democratic values worked in Hungary, the churches operated freely and without political influence in Hungary. I would like to say that there is also a problem with your judgment between the Church and the Church, and here I would like to point out that you have won several international lawsuits against the Hungarian state under the leadership of Gábor Iványi. [[Miklós Soltész: Those who protest with you.]] And we're very proud of that, because this institution is helping homeless people, helping miserable people, doing educational work. This Gábor Iványi, I am sorry that this sarcastic smile has taken place in the face of Mr. Secretary of State, the head of this particular church has married Viktor Orbán and his wife and has baptized his first two children, so I think you should speak with much greater respect about this man, who, by the way, are not on the trail of the dusty one. I'd like to point out that these lawsuits are final, and you're not going to implement them. So I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State when the church status due to him will be granted to the Hungarian Evangelical Brotherhood. Speaking of churches, let us not avoid the question that the Prime Minister's son also created a church under the name of Felház, which, in principle, does not correspond to any time limit, the twenty years and the hundred years, but you must have some political opinion that Viktor Orbán's son, being anointed as church leader, is holding various events, converting, and otherwise, according to his personal announcement, treating patients with a handshake. So obviously you must have some kind of political position on this. I thought that only Christ had ever been able to do this when he told Lazarus to get up and walk! In the Orbán family, it may be a new culture, a new form of manifestation and an exit to the kingdom of heaven. So I would like to ask for a political resolution on this matter as to what you think of the church of the son of Viktor Orbán, because I think that if you are talking about Jewish-Christian values and roots, then it is legitimate that such an initiative, especially if it starts with a direct relative of such high political dignity, what is your position as Christian Democrats. Finally, I would like to add that the Democratic Coalition considers the operation of churches in education to be extremely important, it considers it extremely important in culture and health, and we consider charity to be extremely important. Although the Democratic Coalition is not a church, it is a party, but we are also launching a huge number of charitable actions, we are distributing food, we are providing school start-up support, and we will also offer the money that you have just voted for today to take away our salary. Of course, we will ask the responsible publisher, László Kövér, who called it a shark visit at the time II. John Paul's arrival to deliver this amount to the appropriate address we have requested for charity. So the church law and the Hungarian Fundamental Law do not essentially correspond to the values of the Christian Democrat in Europe, nor does Fidesz correspond to those values of the Christian Democrat in Europe. We are also looking forward to the resolution of the Christian Democrats in Europe tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-03-19-168	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now up to the representative of nationality invited by the committee representing the nationalities to speak. I give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, a representative of nationality, who will present the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue and then translate it into Hungarian.
u2019-03-19-169	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Im Namen des Parlamentarischen Ausschusses für Nationalitäten in Ungarn möchte ich Sie als Ausschuss-Vorsitzender und Repräsentant des Standpunktes des Ausschusses herzlich begrüßen. Über den unter der Kennzahl T/5244. eingerechten Gesetzesänderungsvorschlag hat unser Ausschuss verhandelt und einen einstimmigen Standpunkt eingenommen. Mr President, Dear House, On behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, as Chairman of the Committee and rapporteur for the Commission's opinion, I welcome you with respect. T/5244. CCVI of 2011 on the right of freedom of conscience and religion and on the status of churches, religions and religious communities. At its meeting on 18 March 2019, our committee, as a committee related to the bill amending certain laws relating to the amendment of the Act, held in accordance with the provisions of the House Rules 36. Paragraph 5 of this Article provides for a single opinion. As mentioned and known earlier, the amendment concerns parts of 27 other different laws relating to the amendment of the Church Act. The basic objective of the bill is to ensure coherence in order to ensure consistency between the legal system as a whole and the standards at the statutory level. In most cases, the amendments aim to extend or exclude the rights and obligations previously imposed on the churches by amending the Church Law. The amendment of the law only names the national governments in two places, yet we considered it important that our committee, in the present amendment of the law, can formulate a joint opinion on the Churches, on the life of faith, on the Hungarian ethnicities. In the survival of nationalities native to Hungary, in the survival of smaller or larger historical storms, in the survival of ordeals, in the livelihood and care of ethnic cultural and educational autonomy, in the passing on of traditions, churches, religious denominations and faith have always played a significant role. The ethnicity and belief of indigenous ethnicities in Hungary are inseparable, and this is very important today. For us, the relationship with churches, ecclesiastical NGOs, active participation in church singing and orchestras, youth groups, the maintenance of ethnic traditions almost matched with liturgical events, the daily experience of our ethnic beliefs, besides education and education, is one of the most important guarantees of our ethnic future. This is also indicated by the fact that the current 2011 CCVI. Among the 27 established churches defined in the Annex to the Law on the right of freedom of conscience and freedom of religion and the status of churches, religious groups and religious communities, the Orthodox Diocese of Buda, the Bulgarian Orthodox Church of Hungary, and the Romanian Orthodox Diocese of Hungary are clearly related to an indigenous ethnicity in Hungary. [[19.30]] But, of course, there are many believers among both the Catholic, the Reformed and the Evangelical Church who consider themselves to be one of the indigenous nationalities in Hungary. The figures show that only 8350 of our countrymen who declared the nationality of 644 623 in 2011 and less than 1.3 percent of those surveyed claimed to be atheists. Even if we know that data on nationality and religious affiliation are not required to be filled in at the census, these figures are talkative. In recognition of this, it is also possible to see that, during the preparation of the 52nd International Eucharistic Congress in Budapest from 13 September to 20 September 2020, Cardinal Péter Erdő personally requested that the Preparatory Commission of the Congress first contact the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary and that indigenous ethnicities in Hungary will play a distinct role in the event of the Eucharistic Congress. The ethnic ecclesiastical choir meetings, ethnic ecclesiastical orchestral meetings, national church Masses and other ethnic liturgical cultural events, which take place in various ethnic languages, can provide a memorable, decisive experience not only for the members of indigenous ethnicities living in Hungary, but also for all foreign believers from all over the world who come to Hungary, belonging to the language area of a Hungarian ethnicity. All these liturgical events in ethnic languages can also improve the positive international perception of Hungary, as the positive nationalism policy of Hungarian politics can be experienced not only in words, but also through their personal programs. Needless to say, of course, in the event of ethnicity of the Eucharistic Congress, we give special attention and role to the believing youth of our nationalities. In addition to stressing all this, T/5244. We would like to note the following in relation to the two points of the legislative proposal No.3 concerning the nationalities that are native to Hungary. On the one hand, the bill is 26. According to §2 of the Act on the Protection of Cultural Heritage of 2001 LXIV. Act No. 7 Paragraph 9 of the Act shall be replaced by the following provision:. Public collection: a library, archives, museums, image and sound archives operating or founded in the maintenance of the State, the local government, and the local government, the public body and the public foundation. At the request of the religious community with legal personality, they may be treated in the same way as the public-registered collections, libraries, archives, museums, image and sound archives operating in the maintenance of the religious community with legal personality or of the ecclesiastical legal person. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In other words, it defines the concept of a public collection in a uniform way for all the maintainers that we agree with. At the same time, we would like to note that in the state support for maintaining public collections, however, public collections maintained by public authorities, local authorities and national authorities are not treated uniformly. We will use the motion to amend the draft law on the central budget for 2020. The second point directly affecting Hungarian ethnicities is the 2011 CXC on national public education. Amendment of law, which is in this amendment 46. Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. According to this, the 2011 CXC on National Public Education. Law 35. § 1 shall be replaced by the following: In the educational/education institution maintained by the State, the local government or the local minority self-government, at the request of the parent, student, and not as part of compulsory teaching sessions, [[hereinafter referred to as "optional faith education']] In the educational/education institution maintained by the State, the local government or the local minority self-government, the religious education organised at the request of the parent, student and not part of the compulsory teaching classes may be organised by the church legal person (hereinafter referred to as optional religious education), the church or the inner church legal person of the church, which may be chosen in place of the ethical class, within the limits laid down in this Act. We also agree with this amendment, but in the case of optional religious education required in educational and educational institutions maintained by national governments, the issue of funding for optional religious education has led to discussions and disagreements in practice in several places and on several occasions. We will discuss this matter in detail with the State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office responsible for ecclesiastical and ethnic relations, following a Commission discussion, and, if necessary, we will also make a legislative amendment. On this basis, the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary is set out in Annex T/5244. CCVI of 2011 on the right of freedom of conscience and religion and on the status of churches, religions and religious communities. It supports, agrees with, and proposes the adoption of a bill amending certain laws relating to the amendment of the Act. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-19-170	Thank you very much. Now it is possible to make two-minute comments. I give the floor to Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc.
u2019-03-19-171	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Congressman Varga, if Mr Gréczy had made a different, fairer speech, I would have followed him, but we got what we expected. Congressman Gréczy, you lie when you talk about how the Democratic Coalition and the Gyurcsány Party stand up for the churches, that they support you. It was your boss who performed a dogmatical miracle when he was regularly hired, and besides the KISK KB, he had time to do so. It was your boss who said he was going to teach the priests the scripture. It was Ferenc Gyurcsány who scolded him in 2004 by Saint II. Pope John Paul, how the Hungarian Church dares to take a position on political or public matters. Ferenc Gyurcsány is the one who cancels the Vatican contract [[Zsolt Gréczy: Very much so!]] And it's Ferenc Gyurcsány who would shut the priests up and kick them out of school. Those are all your boss's words. You are and will always be an anti-church party. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-19-172	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy in two minutes.
u2019-03-19-173	Looks like we're gonna be okay with Congressman Nacsa today. I'd like to remind you once again who you're in the fraternity with. Now you can list things, but I wasn't the Secretary of the KIS of the Teleki Blanka High School, but Viktor Orbán, if we're going from here, I'd like to tell you. My other problem, I say, is that during the Gyurcsány government, the churches were free to operate in Hungary without trying to give them any political influence. And the fact that the Vatican Treaty might need to be reviewed is very much thought and said, because it is not certain that it is okay for church schools to receive higher state support than for state-owned schools; because this is not right. Why does one school have to get more than the other? I think it's discriminatory, and it's not okay. But, I'm telling you, it's weird when you talk about Christian democracy in the background of Fidesz. I did not run as Vice President of the Liberal International, but also Viktor Orbán, and I think you believe that liberalism has little to do with Christian democracy. By the way, they are wrong, because liberalism is a symbol of religious patience throughout Europe, even if you do not like it. But, I'm telling you, you're from the Liberal International, not me. Well, I'm sorry, your friends are sitting there in that faction. I would even like to add that state aids were still relevant to churches during the Gyurcsány government, and they were still free to operate with their charitable activities, and the ecclesiastical universities also worked. So I think it's quite simply a fool's errand, quite simply a fool's errand. The Gyurcsány government was not anti-church, DK was not anti-church. [[19.40]] We miss discrimination between churches and separation between the state and churches And I think we're right to do that. But what you think of Christian democracy, I tell you, has been said quite a bit by the leaders of the European People's Party in recent days. Thank you.
u2019-03-19-174	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Varga-Damm in a two-minute time frame.
u2019-03-19-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to read to Congressman Nacsa the following quote from Viktor Orbán. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] This is the following:. The churches will only assume the position they enjoy in a modern society if they preserve and regain their autonomy. If some of the actors in political life are classified as enemies and others as allies, they themselves become political players. If someone steps on this line, then he too will be subject to the often cruel laws of politics. That is why we say that the churches are making a mistake if they are engaged in the service of those who want to turn Hungary into an ideological re-education camp.-This is what your boss said about the churches earlier. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-19-176	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman László Varga in two minutes.
u2019-03-19-177	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is difficult to add this after Andrea Varga-Damm's comment, but I am trying to address two points because I would like to point out two points of dispute. One of the things that was mentioned here in connection with the Vatican contract. I would like to say that, in this country, I would like the state to provide the same support for all children to the educational institutions, so that all children have the same chance of receiving adequate, high-quality knowledge, regardless of what their school maintainer is. Obviously, no one here wants to propose a reduction in any aid, no such comment has been made, but I think it is time to rethink the aid scheme of state-owned educational institutions, the amount of quota. What I see is that these institutions have very serious infrastructure problems, and they find it very difficult to maintain their professional standards in many cases. Moreover, due to district tasks, many social problems, especially in larger settlements, are concentrated in larger districts. I think that this should create a more sustainable, fairer child-centred system. The other: here is a comment from your ranks on the prohibition of discrimination when it came to the Hungarian Evangelical Brothers' Association, Gábor Iványi, my fellow Member Gréczy, something like a protest with you. What I can tell you is that that's what we're talking about when we're talking about separation of state and church, that it shouldn't matter. An objective and transparent system should be operated, in which no such question should matter at all, except, of course, how charitable and what kind of faith-life activities each such organisation carries out. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-19-178	Thank you, Congressman. State Secretary Miklós Soltész made his contribution. You have the floor.
u2019-03-19-179	Dear Congressman Varga, I would just like to say that in this line of thought you have said, there is certainly a lot of truth, but overall, I would go back to the 2011 law when it was because of the business churches that the legislation had to be changed in 2011. However, the interesting thing is that even your social leaders, health and education leaders, said that something should be done before 2010, when you governed, with that law, because there is a big problem. Because churches were formed that were absolutely non-religious. Churches were formed that wanted to take those funds away, and they were formed against churches with believers and real religious activities. However, let me tell you that the Hungarian Church Law is one of Europe's most liberal laws, if it is to be used in this case, because it must be said this way. There are 32 established churches, there is no European state, there is no one who can show me people who are entitled to this level of priority support. The following two new categories, one of them was already the registered church, but the new category and the registered churches can now receive subsidies that do not belong to the churches and the smaller denominations either in Slovakia, Germany or France. So then you say it's discriminatory, they say it's anti-church, well, it really makes you smile from a left-wing party, an otherwise Gyurcsány party, who didn't give the money to church schools at the time. There was a reason for the big protests. So I do not want to argue with Zsolt Gréczy, because it would be completely unfounded or unnecessary, but at least this is what they are trying to understand, that this law, or what we are talking about now, does offer opportunities in Hungary to religious associations and to larger religious communities, which are unique in Europe. Oh, you're not happy about that? That's a different question, but there's nothing we can do about it. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-19-180	Thank you. We will return to the normal comments, and I give the floor to Congressman Richard Hörcsik.
u2019-03-19-181	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the 2011 CCVI on the right of freedom of conscience and freedom of religion and the status of churches, religions and religious communities. The bill related to the amendment of the law, despite appearances, is much more than just a draft law designed to introduce amendments to the law on ecclesiastical matters through other laws. Our conviction, Mr President, is that any proposal before Parliament to ensure freedom of religion, including this, is closely linked to the national identity, which is our most secure support in our work to preserve Hungarian sovereignty. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the proposals which seemed to protect religious freedom, Mr Soltés, State Secretary, mentioned in recent years, have come before this House on numerous occasions, with the aim of supporting the churches of business. Yet, when the Minister of Justice proposed a kind of solution to the situation in autumn 2015, some parties' representatives prevented it from doing so on the basis of the agreement. In the autumn of last year, the amendment to the church law again, I believe, proved the government's willingness to compromise. This regulation was exactly in line with the Fundamental Law. Then the debate was only about how a desired balance can be established between combating the spread of business churches and the enforcement of acquired rights. Ladies and gentlemen, Freedom of religion is one of the achievements of our historic constitution. We have fought for it a lot, and I believe that we have made sure that this fundamental right is guaranteed to Hungarians, so to speak. I am just reminding my fellow Members that the evangelicals were included in the traditional religions in 1557 and the Reformed ones in 1564 and in 1568. Allow me to say that in the territory of the Kingdom of Hungary, Article 1 of Law 1608, so to say, before the coronation, declared the religious freedom of Protestants, but only much later, in 1790 the XXVI became an established religion. It was due to law, at the same time as the Greek Eastern religion. [[19.50]] I just want to mention that the Israeli religion is XLII in 1895. Law made it an established religion, Latin for its recipe religio. Ladies and gentlemen, It is important to talk about this here and now because, on the one hand, Hungary, I believe, has nothing to be ashamed of in terms of ensuring freedom of religion. In fact, on the basis of our traditions, I am convinced that we can speak more crediblely in this area than lobbying lawyers and politicians who, so to speak, believe in global constitutionalism, are trying to create all kinds of uniform European standards. There's a different wording and a different set of rules, but the point is, I believe, the same, unchanged. Let me quote a beautiful sentence, so that the preachers in every place preach the gospel, proclaim every man according to his understanding, and let the village, if it wants to take it, do not let his soul rest upon him, but hold a preacher whose teaching pleases him. And now, after hundreds of years, the draft before us, and the legislation in force from April, is a fundamental right of conscience and freedom of religion for all, which cannot be linked to any legal form. The right of freedom of conscience and freedom of religion involves the free choice of religion or other beliefs... . I believe that these lines speak for themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that as Hungarians, we have no reason to be ashamed, because, as long as our elites have abolished the so-called territorial principle, so-called territorial principle, so-called several denominations could exist within a settlement, the peace of religion in Augsburg concluded in 1555, which is known as Quius regio, eius religio, even though every country, every province, or imperial free city could choose between following Catholic and Lutheran religions, but their choice also dictated the religious affiliation of those under their jurisdiction. The history and traditions of Hungary prove, ladies and gentlemen, that sometimes imperfectly, as in Transylvania, it was in the case of the Greek-Eastern religion, but the legislation, when it could, advocated and does true religious freedom. Ladies and gentlemen, It is not a question of religious freedom that the state has been cooperating with well-established denominations. After all, let me say that it is not possible to mention in a row, for example, the Reformed Church of school support for many centuries, and, thanks to previous church regulations prior to 2011, the witch associations that also function as churches. Therefore, criticism must not be expressed against the pursuit of orderly conditions, but against those who have previously abused the status of church, let us say, who have actually tried to obtain church status for better institution-supporting funding. I believe, fellow Members, that religious freedom can have a number of dimensions in relation to the bill before us. I'm just gonna mention one thing. It is important that there are churches such as the recipe of religio, which not only take over the state's tasks, but also specifically in relation to their credit. I believe that, as legislators, we have a responsibility to provide Church institutions with the background to sound functioning. For the record, there are currently 625 church-owned educational institutions. This high value can be explained for a reason by the 68 percent increase between 2010 and 2014 in church schools and the number of students in church schools. These newly ecclesiasticalized schools join a club, where there are well-known institutions with a long history. I'm just gonna mention one thing, like the Reformed High School of Sárospataki. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to make religious freedom as complete as possible, the central budget, as we have heard, provides significant resources. However, in the present case, it is necessary to fine-tune systems, so to speak, independent from the budgetary year. It is therefore necessary to amend individual tax laws, either the legislative background for offering 1 percent or the Church Finance Act, equally. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, allow me to highlight only one section, section 44. § 2 which is intended to reduce the administrative burden of the registration procedure by not having to re-examine the facts which have already been examined. Hopefully, this will give serious help to those involved in the application of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill we are discussing is harmony: harmony within the legal system and harmony in the related social contexts. This is why the scope of the personal income tax exemption will be extended beyond established churches to include certain services of registered churches and registered churches. This is why the registered church and the registered church, as well as the religious association, are entitled to 1 percent of personal income tax. Ladies and gentlemen, With the bill before us, I believe that Parliament will once again have the opportunity to express its commitment to the issue of religious freedom. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-19-182	Thank you, Congressman. Now we have two-minute comments. First, I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy.
u2019-03-19-183	Thank you for the floor. I'm going to comment on this debate for the last time, no matter what anyone will say. However, I would like to make two comments. One: there was the Vatican Treaty as a positive example. I'd like to point out that it was tied by the Horn government with the Vatican. That didn't fall under the Fidesz government. The other is that I wanted to have an answer to my question about how you feel about the new church that Viktor Orbán's son founded. To me, as it were, to a man of classic Roman Catholic religion, who, by the way, sang in church choir, an altar, and I might have a long list, well, to me, it's very strange and strange to have such a church. As anointed priests of the Christian democracy in Hungary, you obviously have a strong opinion that the Prime Minister's son will appear, establish a church, and heal with a handshake. I am still waiting for your political position on this matter. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-19-184	I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa in two minutes.
u2019-03-19-185	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Then, in Zsolt Gréczy, the MSZP and DK are still fighting over who they're pulling to. Now he's referring positively to the Horn government, but in the meantime, his current boss wants to terminate the Vatican contract. Then decide which side you're loyal to. [[Zsolt Gréczy: I was never a member of the MSZP!]] I asked for the floor because Andrea Varga-Damm lectured us. It's a little strange, though, when a betterman defends the Democratic Coalition, but we have to get used to it. Congresswoman, your attitude to the ecclesiastical subject is that your boss has said that Islam is the last hope of humanity and that your partymates are regularly exposed to anti-Semitic statements. This is how you stand with the churches: Islam is mankind's last hope and anti-Semitic statements. That's your attitude towards the churches. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zsolt Gréczy: Viktor Orbán also said that!]]
u2019-03-19-186	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman László Varga.
u2019-03-19-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would say to Lárinc Nacsa that your boss said what Andrea Varga-Damm read. If we're going to do this kind of thing here, that's what I can say. But that's not why I asked you to speak. It was based on a sudden impulse. We're talking business churches here. I'm trying to talk a little bit about it with a dynamic change. [[20.00]] Of course, everyone is happy that such churches cannot be created, and if there is a legal environment that cannot be abused by church status, because that would not be okay. But answer yourself that question, and look at yourselves a little in this regard: are you sure that this is all that the legislative environment that was created in 2011 was about? Are you sure they didn't take away church status from churches, formerly well-functioning, active religious activities, who are engaged in charitable activities that are not covered by this, which are not business churches? So answer the question for yourself; I think they made a political issue out of it, and it wasn't lucky at the time. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The other thing that has also been mentioned here is that there are several contributions to the Vatican contract: normative, options. This was concluded in this way, and it was established as a higher standard for church institutions, because it was financed from two sides by institutions with local government reservations, on the one hand on the basis of a state normative basis, and on the other hand, on the basis of the added resources of the municipalities, that was the way in which the funding was to be replaced. Since the fact that public education has been in a single hand, state reserve, so the maintenance of primary schools in Hungary, I think that this has been a rethinkable issue for years. All I'm suggesting to you is that we think about this together again, and otherwise, for every child, there should be a higher, increased quota on an equal footing, and there should be no difference in its maintenance nature. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2019-03-19-188	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm for two minutes.
u2019-03-19-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wouldn't have said anything if it hadn't been for my fellow Member Nacsa to feel that he was insulting me or my faction for the sixth time on this day. Then I'll tell you that in 2015, just before the tens of thousands of migrants arrived on our border, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said the following at a conference; Islamic people are not a threat, but they are welcomed as representatives of a high civilization. You come from another civilization, another culture, and it doesn't matter how a businessman, delegation, investor or just a visiting family comes from another culture. I would like to reassure you and assure you that everyone here is received with respect, and that those from the Islamic world are also received with respect. And then he said, "The thing is that the Hungarians never forget that they come from the East, so we enjoy ourselves in the East, and we enjoy ourselves in the company of people from the East, and we easily build spiritual friendships. We understand that world, and we understand people from there. He said that Hungary considers Islam to be one of mankind's great spiritual and spiritual creations, which will help hundreds of millions of people to get to the higher meaning of the existence of man's life. Islam is so exalted by the Prime Minister, who is your spiritual leader, so I think that accusing us of Islamic love is a little careless. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-19-190	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Miklós Soltész.
u2019-03-19-191	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to say once again to Congressman László Varga that there have been 32 established churches, there are now more than 100 registered churches, this registered church has room for everyone who hasn't cheated the money, everyone. Anyone who did not want to function as a registered church could function as a religious association, and this has been fully accepted over recent years. The other question is that you have a kind church, who still had the opportunity, was at every political protest, not for the churches, at a political demonstration with the leader. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You are in constant violation!]] And you are constantly speaking for him in this Parliament. I would add that, by the way, the European Court of Justice has said that the state has the right to decide what kind of subsidies and whom is the right of the state to agree on in the exercise of religious beliefs, or rather in the exercise of public service. And I think it's perfectly legitimate that there are churches that are historically embedded, yet there are Christian denominations, Jewish denominations who have been among us for centuries, and it's perfectly natural that they are involved in public education, social care, child protection, or even hospital health care. The wonderful, beautiful lyrical reading by Andrea Varga-Damm is also touching because from one side he did not pay attention to what the Prime Minister said, because the only thing he did not understand from this is that regardless of the fact that we respect a culture, that we accept another culture, thank you very much, we do not want to live with them. Another issue is that the church law makes it possible that there are two churches of Muslim faith among the 32 established churches. By the way, you did not vote for this either in 2015, nor did you vote for it this winter, because you were here in parliament, so you did not support the colorful church palette, if you may say so, which is typical of Hungary. I would add to this line of thought that, because someone recognizes the diversity of another church, another denomination, the value-creating and cultural creation, it does not mean that it must become ruler, let us say, in a Europe with a majority of Christian cultures. Of this, thank you very much, we don't want any. It is independent of this that the two Muslim denominations in Hungary operate in an honest and completely normal manner and are given the opportunity. One more thing: let me say to Mr László Varga that when you talk about charitable organisations, I would really like to cry about what you say. You were the ones who introduced the tax on donations, stopped charity during your administration, because you VATed charity, you were the ones who didn't give the great charities during the year the subsidies that would have been due precisely to carry out your charitable duties. So I beg you not to bring up anything like Zsolt Gréczy that you have given everything. You were protested against by teachers, parents, students, because they didn't give support to church schools. At least don't come with anything that's completely untrue, at least try to get back on the ground. And it's a nice thing that Zsolt Gréczy talks about Christianity here, too, but then they should also talk a little about it among themselves, DK or the Gyurcsány Party, no matter what we call their hatred of protests, they talk, especially against Catholic and Christian churches. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dániel Z. Carpathian: You are the Secretary of State of Hate!]]
u2019-03-19-192	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next speaker is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik.
u2019-03-19-193	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the opportunity. I have tried to respond with restraint to every sentence all day, I have even received praise from four representatives on the government side in this matter, which I thank you for, because if there is a constructive debate on a very important subject, then there must be openness. At the same time, I cannot refrain from the sizzling hatred that radiates from some of my pro-government colleagues. It is quite amazing that we are talking about a demographic debate, whether it is about freedom of conscience or freedom of religion, there is sizzling, disdainful hatred from you, respect for the exception, but it makes constructive work impossible. My fellow Member Nacsa did the same during the demographic debate, and we can find common points if you want to. I want you to want to. I'm sorry, now you're quoting Gábor Vona's sentences, and you're calling yourself a Christian when an absolute, full-scale lie factory was built? ! They lost more than 200 lawsuits to Jobbik because they lied like an industrialist. All this is so far from Christian mentality that it cannot be said. And yes, I question your decency when they give their name to the operation of a qualified lie factory, where they also wrote that I was supposed to live in an 800 million-dollar palace on top of Shvabhegy, where I was never a tourist. Although I won the lawsuit against you in the first instance, I won it in the second degree, but imagine when the cameras of your footage go out there, and my grandmother in her 80s starts to die. Can you put your name on it humanly? 'Cause I couldn't do it the other way around. [[20.10]] I do not wish any harm to any of you, nor to any of your family, nor to any harm to you, nor, God forbid, to any of you personally, especially to your family members. But I do not think that a Christian can give his name to the operation of a lie factory or to such methods, because these methods are not only against me or against us as some people, but they are beaming down to the lower layers of society. My fellow Member, you should set an example in this area, too, and we have been listening to your big vest, lecturer, patronizing tone all day, which you do not have the authority to do, which you do not have the right to do. It was also the case during the demographic debate that you were not able to issue an "A" certificate at all. Hungary is in huge trouble, it needs national minimums, and I support you in putting minimums on the table on matters of fate, but I have fought against false selection for the rest of my life, and that is what I will do to you if you have such manifestations, until they stop. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-03-19-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy for two minutes, DK.
u2019-03-19-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will be very brief, because I said that I would no longer comment, but Mr Soltész, Secretary of State, was able to say that we had hindered or hindered the charitable activity in Hungary. Then I would like to remind you that the law which allows for a one-percent tax offering, for example, to churches, was introduced by the MSZP-SZDSZ government in 1996. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-19-196	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else has any intention of speaking. [[No signal.]] No one's come forward. The general debate is closed. I'll give it to the author, if you'd like. [[For signal:]] Congressman Imre Vejkey, I give you the floor.
u2019-03-19-197	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank Minister Miklós Soltész for his statement of support, László Vigh Fidesz-leader's statement of support, the support of the KDNP-leader Nacsa Lőrinc, and Imre Ritter's statement of support, and it seemed to me that Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi's betterman supported the bill on behalf of the Jobbik faction; thank him, too, at that time. Congresswoman asked me a question. I can answer the question by saying that the Constitutional Court has stated that the taxpayer is entitled to offer one percentage for the benefit of any religious community. This is the answer to the question asked and it is therefore necessary to provide for such a question. I must first of all say that, in connection with the speech of our fellow Members, László Varga and Zsolt Gréczy, I reject the unworthy accusations made by the Prime Minister and his son in connection with the church law. [[Zsolt Gréczy: What is the charge?]] I don't think they're here. It is not a mockery of a charismatic movement, as it has unfortunately been done here by our opposition fellow Members, but I think that any charismatic movement, whatever church it is, should be treated with respect. By the way, the House is about young people living a personal communion with God. [[Zsolt Gréczy: And the Catholic Church is not suitable for this?]] And if you look at how many young people are following you, I think it's an extremely progressive charismatic movement. Allow me one more thought as a last thought. And that's what it says; here too, it turns out that religion is a private matter, not a private matter, and such things were clearly not a private matter. It is not a private matter, just as the Bible is not for keeping it between its two covers, but for preaching the good news to others. Why should we preach the good news? To make people not only smart, but wise. And do you know what separates a wise man from a wise man? A wise man's view of how to make decisions is based only on his momentary material or power interests, but a wise man's view is based on eternal values. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-19-198	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill amending Act I of 2004 on sport will follow until closure. The proposal submitted by Mr Bánki Erik Fideszes, Member T/5243. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Erik Bánki, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame.
u2019-03-19-199	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The current amendment of the Sports Act aims to facilitate the deployment of international sports associations in Hungary and, in particular, to move to Budapest, establish them here, or re-report them here. The amendment introduces provisions in this respect which will include international sports associations as one of the designated types of sports associations under the Sports Act. The concept of an international sports association and the conditions for obtaining international sports association status are also defined. The amendment sets out, inter alia, the procedural framework necessary for the registration of international sports associations in Hungary and the provisions relating to the arbitration procedure applicable in disputes between international sports associations. The amendment also covers, of course, the provisions on the instruments of incorporation of international sports associations. The Sports Act is a new 30/A. Article 4 of the Act defines the International Sports Association, which is recognised by the International Olympic Commission, which is the most important sport association at international level in addition to the International Olympic Committee and other international organisations that bring together international sports associations. In the sport field of the International Sports Federation, it regulates its sport and ensures its operation by issuing regulations at international level, organising international competitions in its sports field, representing its sport in international sports diplomacy relations. It also continuously monitors and promotes the professional development of its sport and athletes at international level. The International Sports Federation, due to its recognition by the International Olympic Committee, its broad membership and its resulting sports, sports professional and outstanding social base, and its important role in international sports diplomatic relations, has the resources and social support to automatically qualify as a public benefit organisation. International sports associations can be formed by the associations of individual nations in the given sport. According to the decision of the International Sports Federation, the individual continental sports associations may also be members. Due to the particular situation of international sports associations and the public interest in ensuring their presence in Hungary, it is justified that their register should be subject to specific and specific rules. Given the specific situation of the international sports association, it enjoys broad freedom to establish the content of its instruments of incorporation, in principle it should not contain only provisions which conflict with public order or the application of which is manifestly and seriously contrary to the fundamental values and constitutional principles of the Hungarian legal system. It is, of course, a court's duty to judge this. Ladies and Gentlemen, The question arises as to why it is important for Hungary and Budapest to create a framework with this current legislative amendment that allows existing international sports organisations to choose Budapest as their new headquarters or to have the seat of the new international sports organisations that have been created. [[20.20]] At five important points, I have drawn up the points which in any case support the fact that this is a forward-looking and important measure for Hungary and Budapest. The first is: the international prestige of Budapest and Hungary is growing significantly. As stated by the general justification and detailed justification of the legislation, these international sports organisations have such an extensive system of contacts partly because of their membership, and partly because of the athletes that these international sports organisations are bringing together, whose participation at international level and their affiliation to the seat of the sports association can bring significant international prestige to Budapest and Hungary. International sporting events and conferences organised by such an international sports association represent concrete revenues for Budapest and Hungary, on the one hand, and on the other hand, they carry out very important international marketing activities. They produce an appearance for Hungary and Budapest that would cost significant costs if they were tried by advertising, advertising or any other means. Not to mention that it is much more effective and much more useful for all this type of look than any paid advertising. Thirdly, in relation to events linked to these international sports organisations, the social support of sport in Hungary could continue or increase further. This would not only mean that more children would start to play sports in the given sports sectors than what happens in Hungary after all major international sporting events, but also by families and parents in the field of leisure sports, there will be a significant upsurge in such an international event, such as a World Championship or a European Championship, which will be held in Hungary or Budapest. The fourth important element: the implementation of the Budapest 2030 flagship international sports event strategy would significantly help if international sports associations came to Hungary, Budapest. Through the development of sport, I would like to help the development of Hungarian society in key areas on which the impact of sports events and events is of paramount importance. I'd like to list some of these for you. On the one hand, sports sikers and more accessible sports facilities will make society more healthy. In the United States, as a result of research in the mid-2000s, every dollar spent on recreational sports, sports or competition is a 3 dollar return on the US budget, since people who regularly exercise at least 45 minutes of time twice a week get sick much less, are able to perform much higher at work and are much less absent from their jobs. The same important point: significant international sporting events as well as cultural and entertainment events, exhibitions and conferences have led to a significant increase in the number of foreign tourists and their time in our country. This is perfectly consistent with the national tourism strategy, the aim of which is not only to accommodate as many guests as possible in Hungary and Budapest, but also to allow guests to have as high a spending willingness as possible and to spend as much time as possible in Hungary. Sport events and sporting events can be shown to attract an audience where the willingness to spend is higher than the average and the residence time is longer than the average. So, in this sense, it is perfectly consistent with the tourism strategy. The strengthening of sports and other events, as well as the country's image, will increase the circulation of commercial, accommodation and catering places. At this point, therefore, it also supports the tourism strategy and increases the revenue of the Hungarian budget. The development of multifunctional halls or open sports facilities with smart technologies can lead to new solutions and research opportunities. The development of the Hungarian University of Physical Education, as well as the sports complex that builds on the university, will also create research workshops that will allow large global companies such as Adidas or Nike or other sports equipment companies to come to Budapest, and here, in these professional workshops, they will be able to continue researching the results of which they will be able to see in the new sports equipment, and the audience will be able to access them in this way. The time spent in the work of a healthier society may increase, as I said in the American example, for attractive foreigners or Hungarian workers working abroad, opening up directly and indirectly in areas with indirect effect. It can also be seen that many sporting events and events that create new jobs and open up new opportunities for private companies are so attractive that in many cases they can bring home Hungarian workers working in similar fields abroad and keep them in Hungary in the long term. New jobs will be created directly during the design, construction and operation of the facilities. Indirectly, infrastructure built around the facility, for example, catering or trade, as well as fixed-time jobs for organising and organising events, all add to the economy of the city and the country. By creating new jobs, families will have a fixed or indefinite opportunity to earn more income. Finally, local patriotism increases significantly in the population of the director city by organizing more and more sports conferences, cultural or entertainment events in Hungary. These are all such important elements of sports events and sporting events and have a direct and indirect impact that, I think, can produce significant results not only for Budapest but also for the Hungarian economy. Finally, the final point: it significantly increases the revenue of the Hungarian budget. I'll give you a specific number, ladies and gentlemen. Studies have been carried out to model the operation of several international sports associations to see what extra income they can realise in cities where these international sports associations worked. Well, taxes, contributions, additional spending, in terms of their tax revenues, a workplace would amount to HUF 13-14 million in additional revenue per year for the Hungarian budget. So I think that this is such a significant item that it would also significantly and noticeably increase the revenue of the Hungarian budget, in addition to any other beneficial and positive impact. And that we have a realistic chance that, despite the fact that no city in the Central European region has this type of talent, there is no international sports association in any city today, and these cities have not even taken any meaningful steps to make this happen, Hungary and Budapest are also pioneers in this area, especially with this bill, and not only the excellent qualities of Budapest, not only the cheaper labour force, cheaper office and housing rental, better transport availability, international approach through airplanes, not the many world events already organized by Budapest and Hungary, but also the favourable costs, the favourable tax environment and the beautiful built environment, which are all so extra attractions for Hungary and Budapest that we can be competitive in obtaining the seat of an international alliance. And let us not forget that Hungary has three members in the IOC, the International Olympic Committee, as Pál Schmitt, Tamás Aján and Dániel Gyurta are also members of the IOC, so they can help Hungary directly to choose one of these international sports associations as the seat of Budapest. Finally, allow me to present you with a research result. Budapest wants to achieve with the 2030 strategy and the government with this support to make Budapest the European capital of sport and to play a decisive role among the cities of the world. Sportcal, one of the world's most prestigious sports market contributors, is constantly researching 190 nations, processing data from more than 27 500 events a year in 185 sports. Well, their ranking is 587 cities of the world in the statistics, 81 different sports, with summer, winter Olympic sports in both the IOC and the International Olympic Committee recognised sports, but there is also a non-Olympian sport among them. [[20.30]] The number and quality of sporting events and sporting events will be examined in the period 2012-2025. So they're not just watching the current events and events, they're leading them backwards from 2012. The impact of these events is examined along four main pillars, at local, regional and global level: the impact of the event on the economy, tourism; the potential of the media and sponsorship; the magnitude of the ratings; the social impact of events and sustainability indicators; and the impact on sport and reinforcements. I think all four are key for Hungary and Budapest. Ladies and Gentlemen, In this ranking Budapest was 47th in 2014, we were already 12th in 2015, we reached 7th in 2016, and we were able to hold the same position in 2018. It was obvious that in recent years we have been able to organize outstanding events such as the FINA World Water Championship, or the judo World Championship or World Cup, and obviously the European Football Championship in 2020 and our latest international success, the World Athletics Championship in 2023, which can play a role in virtually three of the world's four largest events in Budapest and Hungary, which I think is such an outstanding achievement that it is no wonder that Tokyo, London, Rio de Janeiro, Paris, Doha and Moscow are all in the international ranking. So in Europe, Budapest is already the third most prestigious place behind London and Paris among the cities organizing sports events and sports events in the world. Ladies and Gentlemen, I think that, in addition to being proud of this position, we can be proud of what Hungary, the Hungarian government, has achieved in the last eight years in the development of sports facilities, in the field of re-education or in the promotion of competition sport, however, this support must be carried forward. A very important moment and opportunity is that Hungary can move forward not only in sports events, not only in sports events, but also in a kind of prestige as the seat of international sports associations. I ask for your support for this, and I ask that you support the adoption of this law here in plenary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-19-200	Thank you, Congressman Bánki Erik. I ask you, on behalf of the government, Miklós Soltész wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-03-19-201	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Member, on behalf of the authors, Thank you very much for the presentation. I would like to relate first to his last thought of what these great sporting events mean in the life of Budapest and the country. If anyone remembers the 2010 [[Moraj in the ranks of opposition parties.]] For the World Water Championships, World Swimming and Waterball Championships, you could see the extent to which the country moved, on the one hand, for the sake of our successful athletes, to what extent the Hungarian engineering and construction industry showed that in a few months it could make fantastic large investments. What I would like to highlight as a third point is the strengthening of volunteering through young people and young people. I think it was a great experience for all those who were at the sports school at the welcome ceremony of the volunteers to experience the great strength they were given with the great applause and ovation they received. I think they affect both the life of a city and the life of a nation. It is no coincidence that, on the part of the government, in the past nine years, it has been the development of sports facilities, the promotion of large competitions in various sports sectors, and this would be the third step for international sports associations to come to Hungary. I would like to point out, in particular, from the point of view of the authors, that it is definitely sports areas which are members of the International Olympic Committee, so it is important that we are talking either about a member organisation that has already been established or member organisations to be established in the future, but we are definitely talking about the member organisations under the wing of the International Olympic Committee. I am certainly in favour of it, too, but of course the government is the most important in this matter, and I also ask for the support of Members that what Hungary has launched in the field of sport, which has been implemented in the organisation of sports facilities, and in the construction of previous sporting events, and now in the field of sports diplomacy, is a huge change and opportunity through this law. Thank you very much for the work of the authors. Of course, we support all of this. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-19-202	Thank you, Secretary Soltes. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mrs Maria Kállai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-03-19-203	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I hope that we are indeed in front of a very serious proposal for agreement. We are happy to say that Hungary's sport is a golden age today, because in 2010 the Government of Hungary declared sport a priority sector and recognised the importance of it for the long-term development of the country, as we have heard from my fellow Member, of what sport can mean, and of how it affects almost all sectors. Therefore, the emphasis on the nation's strategic sector serves the interests and future of the Hungarian nation, and a very serious investment at the overall social level strengthens the interconnection of different areas. Indeed, we can say that it affects health, education, family, youth, culture, and, of course, we have heard from our fellow Member, Erik Bánki, about boosting the economy. Of course, it should be mentioned that, like everything else, sport itself is developing dynamically, and we can practically say that it has become a business now, and has also appreciated it in the information society. It must be said that, since the change of regime, no government has made as strong and significant progress in the financing of domestic sport as the government of national affairs. The three objectives of Hungary in the field of sport and sport policy are clearly defined: to organise as many high prestigious, high-quality international competitions as possible, to have a number of good examples, to do this by providing a sufficient number of quality infrastructure, and as many children as possible to play sports on a daily basis. The ensemble of these three goals can give us the opportunity to draw a strong vision of the quality of life of generations and of the related sectors. It also draws a strong vision for Hungarian society. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to achieve the three goals set out above, Budapest's 2030 flagship international sporting event strategy has been completed, which, as we have already heard, sets out in detail the goals to be achieved by prestigious international sporting events in the near future and in the future, indicating what serious benefits it may have. I'm just gonna mention a few. Besides Paris and London, Budapest can be one of Europe's three most important global sports capitals. I think that we have taken huge steps forward on this path. Of course, competition must be strengthened in terms of both Olympic and Paralympic numbers, and, of course, the accumulation of capital and the change in sport, as regards sports diplomacy, also contains a very serious opportunity. Once again, I cannot stress that, in addition to the quality of life and the lifestyle, very serious and seriously related economic aspects, which may contribute to the interests of our country's investors. We can say this for all sectors of the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us supports the increase and long-term deepening of the capital of sport diplomacy, which allows us to introduce into the legislation a new organisation, an institution called an international sports association, which has not yet been recognised in the Hungarian sports association system. The continental sports association can therefore be defined. The detailed rules for the establishment of the newly introduced organisation in Hungary are, of course, to be established, as one way of establishing an entirely new organisation is to create a new organisation with its original foundation, and the other is to establish an international sports association from an existing one in Hungary, thereby creating the possibility of transferring its seat to Hungary. [[20.40]] The guarantee of quality on this issue is also very important. In order to guarantee quality, only as we have already heard, organisations recognised by the International Olympic Committee as an international association or to be recognised by a certain deadline will be required to register. The necessary procedural rules for the establishment of the NOB's Declaration of Recognition and the existence of a statement of support from the Minister responsible for the area are attached to the establishment. The amendment of Law I of 2004 on Sport is consistent with the implementation of the objectives of the strategy and gives international sports associations the opportunity to place their seat in Hungary. The latter is particularly important for the continuous, targeted, coordinated care and development of international sports diplomatic relations. We have also heard from my fellow Member, Mr Erik Bánki, or Secretary of State, how international sporting events can strengthen the image of a country, how the image of a successful and strong nation is strengthened, how they show the world how they are closely linked to my belief that it is also a common point of agreement with a health-conscious lifestyle. A vibrant, successful sport life encourages a huge number of people to move and continue a healthy lifestyle, but the touristic and economic impact of international events is extremely positive, and it also strengthens the local and national economy. However, let us not forget that Hungary has already proven its suitability for this, it is able to host large-scale sporting events, just think of a few highlights of the already mentioned water World Championships in 2017, wrestling Worlds of 18 or outstanding events of car-motor sport. This year's four World Championships are table tennis, fencing, pentathlon, speed kayak canoes, and as we have heard from Erik Bánki, the 2023 Athletic World Championship, this is all such high prestigious events and recognition that yes, this country can do this; Hungary can do it, Budapest can do it. Obviously, due to the well-known talents, development and safety of Hungary, because of the security of the country and the capital, the capital is very capable of carrying out all this, and there is a particular interest. The question may arise, and we all know how strong marketing value can be from a country around the world, as well as known athletes and artists make our reputation well. I think that this is also a very important issue, because besides sport, sport and sport have been the production of numerous international films, cultural events and music videos in Budapest since 1980, and I think that this international interest in sport, culture and health is in any way linked and it ensures and demonstrates the tourist value of our country, our capital, can attract tollable demand. Finally, we can ask the question: who is the beneficiary of everything that is built and beautiful? Of course, the Hungarian society. As Mr Secretary of State has said, and my fellow Member, international sporting events allow our capital to become one of Europe's top 3 sports capitals, and its cultural, economic, community, identity-enhancing benefits can be very significant. Of course, our group fully agrees with the amendments and efforts set out in the bill before us, and we therefore support the proposed bill. Thank you for your attention and everyone for your support. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-19-204	Thank you, Congresswoman Kállai. I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Steinmetz, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-03-19-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We are discussing the amendment of Act I of 2004 on Sport to this House, and in this debate it was said that Hungary's sports life has been a successful development. I was able to experience it myself. Indeed, it is a joyful thing to play sports in Hungary, more and more children are starting to play sports that has a health impact, and we can host more and more prestigious world events in different sports, which is also very desirable for the country's image. We can say that Hungary, even though it is a small country, is a sports power. However, the amendment before us is not about the beneficial effects of sport in a narrow sense, but about the seduction of existing international sports organisations to Hungary and the conditions for the registration of international sports organisations that have not yet been established in Hungary. I think it is important to point out at the outset that international sports associations are created by the associations of individual nations in the particular sports disciplines, not by the provision of the Sports Act. I believe that this effort must be supported, because why not find a home in Hungary for an international sports association. However, questions and proposals relating to the proposal before us must also be formulated, and I would like to go into the details now. The first is the issue of legality. As an opportunity, the law provides that these organisations will be directly eligible for state aid, in Hungarian, it is the taxpayer's tax forint, it is public money. That is what this bill rightly says, but I think you know, my fellow Members, that an international sports association, a sports association, has the use of property rights. What are we thinking here? For example, we are thinking of television broadcasts, organisation of sporting events, various marketing and advertising rights. So these organizations have their own income. It is interesting why an international organisation should be supported with the public money of Hungarian taxpayers. This is where it comes from, and I would like to stress that among Hungarian citizens, in addition to their love for sport, there are a lot of people going out and rooting for the success of Hungary, there have also recently been undesirable phenomena, especially regarding the use, utilisation and utilisation of Taós money, subsidies, abuse of international competitions in other associations' houses and, not least, the issue of the Olympics, when I think that Hungarian citizens were not sufficiently informed about the prestige and benefit of Hungary, they saw only the wrong side of it, or at least those who wanted to ask this question in a referendum. I am sorry that this case did not end up in a referendum, I would have supported the Olympics myself, a lot of people would have supported me, but the fact that we have come this far is also the result of the fact that, although the government consults voters extremely well in general through national consultations, and we can see that it is doing this work very professionally through the various channels of communication, but this has not happened here. So while we're at it, we need to be very careful about this, and we need to be careful. 30/A. §) I am now going further in the articles of association which can be concluded that the parties are subject to Hungarian or international arbitration courts in disputes relating to sport. This debate on sport is a very broad wording, whether it is a contract of an athlete or a contract for the organisation of a sporting event. [[20.50]] And I am very sorry that the Hungarian court is not acting on this matter, or that it is not optional, and it is not operating on the basis of the parties' conviction and agreement. It must therefore be seen that the Hungarian court will not be entitled to decide on any material disputes between international sports organisations supported by public funds by the Hungarian State and associations or athletes. And then, as my fellow Member Erik Bánki mentioned, this bill would provide a separate status if it was voted on, the Civil Code and the Ptk. lay down conditions that are much lower than those laid down by these organisations. If I may, I will read a few of them: the international sports association is not obliged to set up a supervisory body or supervisory board. The instrument of incorporation may depart from the requirements of the quorum contained in the Ptk. In the event of the termination of the international sports association without its successor, the articles of association may differ from those laid down in the Civil Code and the Civil Code, and now pay attention. the requirements for the distribution of assets. The question arises as to why this is necessary. To conclude on this issue, we will also get to the issue of ethicalism. The international sports associations that have received direct State aid, which organise and conduct international competitions, which decide on the applications submitted, yet what light does it give Hungary that the Hungarian state supports these organisations with public money, and I am not saying that by chance, because we want to host various sporting events in Hungary. I think that, to put it mildly, the optics are very bad, and Hungary's international judgment in the sports world would be negatively affected. There's another question. The draft does not specifically say that we want to be in Budapest, or that Budapest would be the large city in which these organisations are based, and we are talking about Hungary, and that is why I do not understand it, but I think that I am not the only one in this Chamber, why we should at all allow Budapest and the Minister for the development of the capital agglomeration to establish an international sports association based in Marcal. I don't understand. But I don't even know how the boots get on the table. I do not even understand what this has to do with the expression, but rather why Budapest and the Minister responsible for the development of the Budapest agglomeration decide on this issue. As far as I know, sports matters do not fall within the remit of the Ministry, but rather fall within the remit of the EMMI, and in the person of State Secretary Tünde Szabó, there is an excellent sports specialist who I miss about today's debate. I believe that on these issues the EMMI, and specifically the Secretary of State for Sport, should decide and grant permission. I would also like to make a proposal on the conclusion of my speech. I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow Members and to the attention of the rapporteur that the world's largest international sports organisation is not the International Olympic Committee, although it is undoubtedly the most influential, and many even among athletes believe that the NOB has the greatest potential, but the so-called GAISF, which represents virtually all the international sports associations of the world with 94 members. The sports associations of Olympic sports are also members of this organisation. The international sports association status is therefore not determined by the Hungarian sports law, but by the GAISF membership. However, a quarter of the GAISF members are not included in the Olympic or NOB recognised sports. It is important and important that we emphasise this because this amendment does not allow, inter alia, the registration of international aikido, international bodybuilder, international jujuchu and many other sports associations in Hungary. In view of this, I think it would be worthwhile to change the proposed text of the amendment, namely the definition of the international sports association, so that the law is bound by the condition of establishment, not by the NOB, but by the GAISF. In this way, as I said, it is possible to attract, for example, the international Jujucu alliance or the bodybuilding alliance to Hungary and to have its seat in Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up, I would like answers to the questions, namely, that there is an Olympic sport, an international alliance that intends to move to Hungary, including Budapest. Why do these organisations need public support? Why should sports organisations, where appropriate supported by public funds, be facilitated? This regulation is much more liberal than those organisations which the Hungarian State does not support with public money. So I'm picking up a contradiction here. And I'm asking why the Secretary of State for Sport doesn't decide on this case, because we're talking about amending the Sports Act. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] Thank you very much, and I look forward to the answers to our questions. Of course, if we have any doubt, we will submit proposals for amendments and I trust that, on the basis of what I have presented, this will find positive support. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-19-206	Thank you, Congressman Adam Steinmetz. I now give the floor to Mr László Földi, notary, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2019-03-19-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the legislative amendment before us is to create a framework for existing and future international sports associations in Hungary to operate in Hungary if they intend to do so. I think that Hungarian sports diplomacy would be an outstanding success if as many such sports associations as possible moved to Budapest and Hungary. But we must praise the Hungarian sports diplomacy, because the great world competitions of the past years, either the FINA competition, the judo-vob or the wrestling-vob took place in Budapest. And what my fellow Member Erik Bánki said in the expoze about the impact of these competitions on young people and children: I know specifically that the number of children playing judo in Cegléden has increased by dozens, or the number of children wrestling has increased by dozens. So there's a huge value to such competitions if we can bring this here. The draft law before us sets out, inter alia, the procedural framework necessary for the registration of international sports associations in Hungary and the provisions relating to arbitration in disputes between international sports associations. I'm not a lawyer, obviously the lawyers have well constructed this part of the bill, and I trust that this way will serve the workings of the sports associations coming here to the fullest extent, and it will do them good. [[21.00]] It is also included in the draft that the amendment also covers the provisions concerning the instruments of incorporation of international sports associations. I think that Budapest and not only Budapest, but Hungary, the Hungarian people, will benefit in any way if sports associations are established here, because here in the expozee, or in the remarks of the State Secretary, or in the lead speaker of Fidesz, it has been said what effect such sports associations have on future competitions, what economic revival role they have, what revenue the Hungarian budget represents. That's what we've heard before, and I don't want to tell you that. I would like to say in any way that the KDNP faction fully supports the draft before us, and that is what I am asking my fellow Members for. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-19-208	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to MEP László Varga, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2019-03-19-209	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, There were many different aspects in the debate, obviously also aspects of pro-government representatives, and now, through Ádám Steinmetz, my opposition fellow Member spoke. He asked a wide variety of questions, some of which I share, so I have similar questions. I was most concerned when I listened to the rapporteur say that we have heard a lot of such introductions in recent cycles in relation to the positive economic effects, and it is always remembered that the expansion of the corporate tax relief system and the expansion of the visual team sports have led to a similar enthusiasm, and then, of course, how much has been achieved for the original purposes, I am thinking here primarily and to solve the infrastructure situation there, which is already at least questionable here, based on the experience of the past years, but I think we will have a few words about this in connection with the debate. So when we analyze the positive economic impact of such a decision, I would like to see the real impact of the proposals and decisions made over the past period on a similar subject, i.e. in the field of sport, because there is indeed a serious infrastructure in the country, but it is a question of how exploited infrastructure has been created. I say this in terms of the widest range, but I am thinking in particular of using a football stadium and how these facilities provide opportunities for recreational sport and mass sports. Because when we talk, for example, about international sports associations transferring their seats to Hungary, because it will have such economic leverage, events that can come, sports events that will come to the country in a larger number of ways, which will pay back in the form of tax revenues, or perhaps move the country in a way that may otherwise have positive health and other aspects, obviously these questions are worth asking. I can see that the sports policy of the last few years has not changed significantly, let's say the number of amateur football teams or even the official MLSZ competition system or the main course. I don't see that, let's say, in my own county, but obviously the author will tell you that he sees this thing differently. Of course, more people were involved in the training of replacements, but I do not see that they could otherwise use the infrastructure that was created with the masses of disadvantaged children, and I think this is a problem in this way. In the context of the concrete proposal, it has been said that there is a candidate for this because such a legislative proposal or such an amendment package usually comes when it prepares something. We didn't talk about it, but the International Weightlifting Association is the only alliance that operates in Budapest. Tamás Aján's lobbying power is obviously involved in this, not a little bit, but the question is whether the alliances that may or may not be on the horizon have arrived, let's say, a request from some direction, prepares something of this type of movement in this proposal. I have written that down myself, and I myself share the question before me, that it is, in fact, membership in the general association of international sports associations that results in international federal status. There is no direct link with the International Olympic Commission to that effect, so it is a wider circle that could be considered as such an international sports association in the context of the adoption of this proposal. So a lot of sports associations are missing out, and I don't understand why in particular. In the future, such an international sports association may be eligible for state aid directly. In fact, it can be considered on the basis of the presentation that there may be some kind of tax relief or some kind of support scheme in this story. We will certainly have this debate on the impact of the corporate tax benefit scheme on visual team sports. What I'm arguing is that the nature of mass sports and leisure sports would have been enhanced by these visual team sports. The fact that there are more or less people in the official competition system is certain to talk about this, but let's say amateur football teams go to a school gym several times a week to play soccer or to improve competition opportunities there is still an open question. My opinion will be influenced by that. On that side, the government actually leaves a significant tax on sports organisations, potentially also as revenue in the budget, with this corporate tax relief scheme. If something like this is being introduced here, then it would be much clearer to see what a positive result this can be in economic terms and what effect this has on Hungary's prestige, because I think, and this is not demagogy, I would stress this, if we are talking about tax incentives, then, obviously, in the fields of health, education and other areas, we could even expand the corporate tax relief system further, if we are already talking about it. More specific, more important objectives could therefore be identified in this respect. But I'm not going to continue, by the way, because I think we've had these debates a lot, and they seem determined. I will be very curious how this infrastructure can work in five to ten years, how this ever growing infrastructure can, let's say, attract more viewers to sports events, because I see that there is a problem. I think a viewer decides to visit a sporting event on the basis of the fact that he actually saw a kind of struggle there, the outcome of which was doubtful, exciting, that event was exciting. When a team is highlighted, and the state, to say the least, is much better placed than the other teams, then obviously this kind of competition neutrality is also questioned. There is therefore a question of whether there is a candidate, or if there is a willingness to expand the range of potential candidates by means of an amendment. My personal position and my group's position would also be affected by the type of tax incentives or tax support schemes that could be considered for such an international sports association. We would be very careful to address such issues, because I really think that there are crucial issues in Hungary, such as the state of health and education. If we were to increase the system of tax incentives and subsidies, we would see this as a very important part of this. By the way, in terms of sport, we are thinking of the importance of filling the existing infrastructure with life and strengthening mass sports, recreational sports and supply sports. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2019-03-19-210	Thank you very much, Congressman Varga. I now give the floor to Mr Zsolt Gréczy, the lead speaker of the DK Group. [[21.10]]
u2019-03-19-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Of course, sport is also extremely important for the Democratic Coalition. There's a strong national feeling for athletes. The Democratic Coalition doesn't dispute that either. It is therefore a little strange to hear and let me begin by saying that from 2010 the government recognised the strength of sport and that world competitions should be brought here. This isn't a 2010 invention. Hungary organized several sports world competitions before 2010 [[András Tállai: Which one? Miklós Soltész: For example?]] It is not that no one existed before the Orbán government, but that there is time and sports competitions. [[András Tállai: Name one!]] Between 2002 and 2010, Hungary, for example, organized an athletic European Championship at the Népstadion, organized a swimming European Championship, organized a water polo world cup, organized a kayak-kenu world championship [[András Tállai: He is in Pest every two years!]] [[András Tállai: He is in Pest every two years!]] (András Tállai: Every two years there is Pest!) and finished at the top of the medal chart. And I would add that Formula 1, which is one of the most important sports marketing and advertising media, came to Hungary in 1986, and even before the regime change, Hungary organized world competitions such as basketball-Europe Championships, basketball-BEK-finals, Women's Handball World Championships, Wrestling World Championships, Underground Athletic European Championships, Athletic European Championships and I could tell you a long time. So, if I may say, every government, even before and after the regime change, had an important sport case. I would just like to point out here that the National Athlete Award, which still exists today, was launched during, for example, Ferenc Gyurcsány's Sports Ministership, and that was the first time the awards were presented. So much for the past. Of course, it is essential for Hungarian sports that world competitions arrive in Hungary, as they do have marketing benefits and, of course, a Hungarian supporter is different from going to the swimming pool, the sports hall and the stadium to cheer for Hungarian contestants, which is not the same as following these events through television. This is widely acknowledged by the Democratic Coalition. At the same time, there are other types of problems around Hungarian sports. For example, the Orbán government has introduced daily physical education, but unfortunately the gymnasiums have not been built at the same rate as, say, football stadiums, and in many places in the country, everyday physical education is practiced by young people standing in street clothes next to the bench or in the school halls, trying to open their arms from the front middle position without punching the child next to them in the nose. So I think, for example, there's a lot of catching up to do here. We are not even sure whether it was a good idea, and we are even sure that it was not a good idea that the members of the Parliaments of the various orders and ranks of Fidesz occupied the professional associations of sports. I'm just bringing up two highly scandalous cases. One of the financial accounting scandals around the Fistfight Alliance [[András Tállai: Etele Baráth was the model!]] The other was the Tennis Association, where the conflict led to the fact that Hungary's two most famous tennis players, Tímea Babos and Márton Fucsovics, had specifically canceled the Hungarian national team, while the current president of the Tennis Association, who, by the way, remains in place as a member of the Fidesz Parliament. So there's plenty of this kind of problem here. Another conflict that has not been discussed with Hungarian society, for example, is the use of tao money and its success or usefulness. We see that, for example, Kisvárdán is so useful in the football team that 11 foreigners are playing in the Hungarian Championship, Ukrainians, Brazilians, I don't know who they are, but there are no Hungarians. [[Dr. Steinmetz's intervention:]] For example, at the Hungarian Cup match against Ferencváros on Üllői út, there were no players on the starting team, all 11 foreigners. What I would like to say here is that this debate is not played, and, for example, the Democratic Coalition has finally won the lawsuit to be seen in the contracts of the Football Academy in Felcsút. I'm telling you, there's a final court ruling on this, and the Secretary of State hasn't issued them to this day. I would add that you are, of course, failing to do so because you have an obligation to publish it. As regards the professional associations and the question of sports events coming to Hungary, of course it is important that they come. However, there are basic questions to be answered. One is that, if these sports associations come, what kind of tax relief is granted to them to place their headquarters here, what obligation the state undertakes to say, their office lease, the salary of employees will be paid by the Hungarian State or paid by the Hungarian taxpayers, or it will be charged by the budget of the sports association. Another question is that the government or the leaders of Hungarian sports policy are already in negotiations with any sports professional association to arrive in Hungary or Budapest and to continue their career here. In addition, the question is: if we bring these to Hungary, for example, what other financial flows are there, if, let's say, the relevant sports association leaves Hungary, then how will it affect the Hungarian taxpayers' wallet, or there is some sort of penalty payment obligation or other, if this contract agreement fails. Therefore, the Democratic Coalition expects answers to these questions. Of course, we think it is important that Hungarian athletes in Hungary can cheer for Hungarian fans, because obviously there is no happier feeling than when you see that one of the Hungarian athletes comes to Budapest and reaches the top of his career. But, of course, there are questions that need to be answered, because we are again talking about billions, and we are still waiting for answers to these details. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-19-212	Thank you, Congressman Zsolt Gréczy. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I'll ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[On the sign of Erik Bánki:]] Member Erik Bánki indicates his intention to speak. You have the floor, Mr. President of the Commission.
u2019-03-19-213	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank Mr Miklós Soltész, Secretary of State, for expressing his supportive attitude on behalf of the government in his speech. I agree with Mr State Secretary, but there is indeed a point of debate between my fellow opposition Members and us as to why the IOC is the issue, why we are talking about sports organisations recognised by the International Olympic Committee. This issue was raised by Mr Ádám Steinmetz, and also by Mr László Varga. Because, gentlemen, it is the International Sports Federation, which has very rightly acknowledged this, but not most members, that is true, because the Association of International Sports Federations can have several members, but those members that operate under the auspices of the IOC are, in fact, 35 international alliances, their past, performance, quality and predictability guarantee that there will be no operational or farming problems with sports organisations that are subject to the law, who come to Hungary or are established in Hungary. I think we should not rule out the possibility of further enlargement. I agree with you on that. However, I ask for patience in this regard. Let us start, let us see how much interest Hungary and Budapest will have, because in answering opposition questions, we did not bring this draft legislation to Parliament because there would be concrete negotiations between the government, the Hungarian Olympic Committee or any other Hungarian sports association, but we would even like to create the possibility of a lobby of this type. As I have said to you, we have three members in the International Olympic Committee, and we are leading a number of international sports associations. To say the most important thing, Sándor Csányi is the president of the Hungarian Football Association, FIFA, Vice-President of the International Football Association, and UEFA, member of the Executive Committee of the European Football Federation. But I could list a number of such positions, all of whom have political influence that will help and enable these international sports associations to settle in Hungary at all. [[21.20]] So thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for the government's support. I would also like to thank my fellow Member, Mrs Kállai, for his support and for his confirmation that, in addition to its positive impact on children, training, competition and recreational sports, sport will also have a beneficial impact on other areas, such as health care, as there will be much less use of healthcare services in need. And I think that we can also make significant progress in the efficiency of the labour force. In response to the suggestions made by my fellow Member, Adam Steinmetz, about the direct subsidies we are thinking of, why the bill even deals with it, I would like to reassure the Member, as well as the other opposition speakers, that we do not intend to do so. Nor do I, as rapporteur, think that direct State aid should be granted to international sports organisations. I don't think there's any conflict of interest in this area, anyway, even if they're involved. I am thinking, once again, of the international examples of a number of countries offering different tax or contribution allowances to international sports associations that choose a city of that country as their seat. We are thinking, at most, of such tax or contribution reductions, but this is not yet concrete. For the time being, we wanted to create the possibility that if the other parameters I was talking about in the competition were cheaper, the cheaper costs of the labour force, the lower rents, cheaper accommodation or lower prices of hospitality, if all this were not enough to attract international associations to Hungary or Budapest, we could talk about possible tax or contribution reductions. But this is also clearly based only on the international examples that have been produced and worked. Why is the Minister responsible for the development of Budapest and the capital agglomeration the competent minister and not the Minister of EMMI? Because, my honourable fellow Member, as I said in the expozee, the international sports associations which are established in Budapest or Hungary will not have a beneficial effect on Hungarian sport, although they will also have an impact on it. This has a much greater positive impact on social prestige, international competitiveness, international marketing and economic revenues. Since the supervision of tourism belongs to the minister responsible for the development of Budapest and the capital agglomeration, and these other additional effects affect areas that are completely different from the EMMI, I thought that the Minister responsible for the development of Budapest and the capital agglomeration was competent in terms of competence. Not to mention that these international organisations will have a good chance of being based in Budapest, precisely because of what Budapest can offer, both in terms of transport, the built or cultural environment, safety and many other factors. So I think that almost a hundred percent of Budapest will come up here later. I thank my fellow Member, László Földi, for his support. It is very important that such a proposal can go through Parliament with greater support. I must be honest with you that my fellow Member, László Varga, surprised me with your suggestions. We have more constructive debates here in the benches of Parliament. I got my eye out because you said you didn't see the impact of the Tao discount system on amateur sports. I would like to say to the honourable Member that, in the field of football, since I am a member of the Bureau of MLSZ, I have been able to give you concrete figures in the past period, since 1990, since the change of regime, nearly six hundred teams have ceased, and most of these have been lost between 2002 and 2010, during the socialist and free democratic governments. Because even though there were world events, as my fellow Member Zsolt Gréczy said, it is undoubtedly a fact, but not so many competitions of this magnitude were held in Hungary at the time, but sports subsidies made up a fraction of the current level. Ferenc Gyurcsány was the Minister of Sports, Mr. Congressman, since you mentioned him, who allowed himself the insolence that he did not participate in the World Championship Finals at which the women handball team played a decisive match in Zagreb. So he shouldn't have gone to the end of the world as a sports minister, but he should have loved the area for which he was responsible. And choosing the Minister of Sport in the Socialist Government is not just to bring down Péter Medgyessy later, and to become Prime Minister. That's why Ferenc Gyurcsány, mentioned by you, sacrificed the sport. So much for his seriousness. But I could also say that it was also at the time of Ferenc Gyurcsány that disabled athletes were not paid their Olympic allowance, which we, the Orbán government, had to pay after 2010. So, so much for the previous period. Not to mention that, if you look at sports developments, Budapest would not have developed in the sports infrastructure between 2002 and 2010, but the sports fields that were sold in Budapest during your governance, and there were commercial service providers and residential parks. This can no longer be done today, because the current sports law expressly prohibits this. So, thank God these lost sports areas are in the past. I would therefore like to reassure my fellow Member, László Varga, that, given the social impact of the tao, significant progress has been made in football in amateur sports, since more than 400 teams have been re-established from the previous 600 that have ceased. This may not be seen at the level of the game in amateur sports, but the fact that there are many more people playing sports, there is much more activity in this field, we can support it with numbers. Not to mention that the number of certified athletes in football increased by two and a half times, from 130 thousand to 300 thousand, and now the number of certified athletes has slowly tripled. Therefore, all statistical data show that we have been able to register a significant increase not only in the field of replacement education, but also in amateur sport, thanks to the corporate tax exemption. Not to mention that sports facilities that have been set up are legally committed to open up to amateur sports and mass sports, since it is mandatory to open sports facilities from the lake and provide at least 15% of amateur associations and leisure sports providers without paying. I think that the grapes are sour for the opposition, and I don't blame it, because what we have achieved in the field of sport over the last eight years is not only a light-year distance from the government period between 2002 and 2010, but also an outstanding recognition at international level. It is no coincidence that Hungary can win the right to direct the world's largest sporting events. This is all due to the fact that we are not only talking about the importance of sport for us, but we are also doing a great deal for it, and we have made very serious commitments over the past period, and we have achieved very serious performance and very serious results in terms of sports development and support. It is only a special pleasure for us that this brings results both in supply training and in recreational sports and in competition sports. I ask my fellow Members to review their views and support this bill, because this bill will have no negative impact on the Hungarian economy or on Hungarian sport. It's only helpful, it only provides support later. So I ask you to support this bill in the final vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-19-214	Thank you, Congressman Bánki Erik. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, Following up on certain questions concerning the organisation of the markets in agricultural products, the 2015 XCVII on producer organisations and interbranch organisations. a general debate on the draft law amending law and amending certain laws relating to the establishment of the National Land Centre until closure. [[21.30]] The government referral is T/5238. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas, Secretary of State of the Agricultural Ministry, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame.
u2019-03-19-215	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, This bill contains two important elements of amendment. On the one hand, it deals with changing the legal designations related to the establishment of a national land centre and, on the other hand, ensuring the predictability of various products such as the apple market, the cherry market and contractual relations with the sugar industry. The government has decided to make certain organisational changes in order to carry out land management tasks more effectively, one of the important elements of which is the establishment of a national land management centre. This new organization is the National Land Fund Management Organization, the National Cadastral Program Nonprofit Kft. and is established by combining specific units of the Metropolitan Government Office with the aim of increasing efficiency, reducing the number of bodies responsible for land management and ensuring uniform management of land management data assets. It is no coincidence that the single structure of land assets is connected, because, at the moment, there is no such thing in Hungary, and this innumerable property, innumerable parts of the land, has caused very serious problems in terms of sale, real estate exchange and other aspects, which is why this law will help. Among other things, the elimination of undivided joint ownership and the performance of estate management tasks will be the responsibility of this new organisation. This issue will be presented to Parliament as a bill in the coming period. This amendment, discussed by the Parliament, performs the context of this organisational step at the legal level with the name changes. Technically, if the law has been read, honourable Members, then the law is 1 and 2. § 2 of the Act applies to the supply and construction of this new institution. The other amendment contained in the bill aims to address market problems that have been on a regular basis for several years. The European Union's common agricultural policy gives Member States the opportunity to make it compulsory in certain sectors to enter in writing sales contracts between producers and purchasers or processors. In the market for industrial apples and fresh cherries, we have seen adverse developments in recent years, which, to a large extent, applies not only to recent years but also to the present moment. We know that a lot of apples are still in storage, and we want to change this situation by amending this law, which is about the fact that, on the basis of the signals from producers, the government has considered it necessary to introduce contracting standards under EU law, with the effect of which, in addition to transparency, it can promote predictability by requiring processing plants to offer their production partners a pre-emptive purchase offer. On the basis of the amendment, the contract for the sale of fresh cherries and industrial apples must be in writing in all cases following the entry into force of the law in the case of processing in Hungary. However, 60% of the contracts must be concluded by processors and producers prior to the processing of the sour cherries, by 15 May of the year in question, until 1 August of the day before the processing of the apples, with which the break-up of the bargaining period can be achieved. The contract shall include, on a compulsory basis, the price to be paid for the products delivered, which may be determined in a fixed form or using a price formula as laid down in the contract. For the calculation of the latter, the contract shall specify the various factors to be taken into account, which may include market indicators reflecting changes in market developments, the quantity delivered and the quality or composition of the agricultural products delivered. On the one hand, the system provides security for producers and, on the other hand, it is able to monitor price movements in the spot market to ensure fair income for producers. Similarly, the same applies to sugar beet growers, where, on 10 December, the law sets out the terms of the contract, the provision of the contract and the basic reconciliation of contracts with the Association of Sugar beet producers. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, as has been said, I have been able to inform you of two large, important parts of this law, which is why I ask you to be able to support this law and, if this arises, to be supplemented by your vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-19-216	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Farkas. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr János Pócs, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-03-19-217	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The 2015 XCVII on certain questions concerning the organisation of the markets in agricultural products, producer organisations and interbranch organisations. T/5238 on the amendment of Act T/5238 on certain amendments to the Act concerning the establishment of the National Land Centre The proposal sets out proposals among fruit growers, which have been very, very long-awaited. Ladies and gentlemen, It is a fact that, at the time of our accession to the European Union, the then MSZP-SZDSZ government loudly proclaimed that Hungary could be a pantry of Europe. In addition to the well-sounding slogans, however, not only did they not protect Hungarian producers, but they left them alone, they also unleashed food of uncertain origin, including vegetables and fruits. Without regulation, many foreign-owned buyers and processors were released to us, who were only interested in self-profit making, and did so to the detriment of Hungarian producers. In fact, that's what happened. They allowed adverse processes to start, and Hungarian producers rightly expected and expected the Hungarian government to protect and serve their interests, not the foreign interests. This bill was drawn up according to this expectation. The Government and the Agricultural Ministry, as they have done so far, as they have promised, will continue to do so by preparing this bill, and will continue to do everything in the future to enable farmers to reach adequate buying-in prices. Ladies and gentlemen, Due to Hungary's territorial and climatic conditions, it competes with producers from any country. The quality of the products is unique, excellent, the producers are prepared and committed. However, it is very true for agriculture, including gardening, that we are talking about a sector that is like a three-legged milking chair. The first leg is the producer, the second is the fair buyer and processor, and the third is the satisfied buyer. If any of the legs are shorter, the milking chair, the system goes up. [[21.40]] In recent years, it has been demonstrated that while producers made the largest investments, they paid loans, employees and contributions, prayed for the rain, or even wish it didn't fall, when everything came together, the buyers abused the exception by using their market power, unfortunately, the producers were pushed into the role of the shorter leg of the chair. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill is to ensure that producers are no longer in an unfair position because of abnormally low buying prices. So far, buyers have been given the opportunity to buy from those who had the cheapest supply of goods, thus pushing prices to a deeper and deeper level with the producers themselves. By adopting the bill, producers can finally experience the virtue of the market economy in selling their products to those who provide them with the most favourable conditions. Another amendment to the bill concerns the establishment of a national land centre. The establishment of the National Land Centre, as we have heard from the Secretary of State, is essentially an efficiency improvement in the work of the Land Administration, a reduction in bureaucracy with positive effects. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments, as we can see, serve the interests of Hungarian producers in addition to debate. The saying is true: to grow something and sell it well is to sow it once and reap it twice. Hungarian farmers deserve not only to sow but also to reap. In this spirit, I would like to ask my fellow Members with respect to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-19-218	Thank you, Congressman János Pócs. I now give the floor to Congressman Ádám Steinmetz, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-03-19-219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The amendment to the law before us is a law amendment that contains very sympathetic elements for us. We have been looking forward to it, and I think everyone in this House knows that in recent years there have been very serious problems with buying-in prices in both the cherry and apple sectors. For example, last year there was a processor who offered 13 forints for the extra pound of apples, while in the markets they offered this high-quality Hungarian-produced apple for 300-400 forints. We know very well that this does not cover the cost of spraying, picking, loading or delivery. Unfortunately, what is the consequence of this? It follows that more people stop producing, cut down trees, and the fruit rots under the tree. On the Internet you can see these pictures, where we see rotten apples under bare tree trunks, mutilated apple trunks. But it's the same in the cherry sector. If you allow so many personal comments, there is a small piece of cherry in my family, and we haven't found a labour force in years, who has been producing losses for years, and because it is an undivided common property, we have decided to finish it, and we will probably use it as a plougher. In my opinion, this Hungarian fruit and vegetable sector will in no way benefit from it. We can read in the text of the law or in the justification that the amendment provides security for producers and ensures fair income for producers. Here I am taking advantage of the opportunity offered by the Secretary of State, and I am very pleased that in his speech he pointed out that he was looking forward to the proposals for amendments, I mean, I have already taken advantage of that, and that is 7/A. In this regard, the Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) TFEU. This paragraph settles the contract for the sale of cherries and apples, but the question arises what happens if the price offered again becomes 13 forints. This is not recorded anywhere, and we do not want producers to face this situation again. Therefore, I think, as the law says, and now allow me to ask your attention a little bit, although, despite the attention, we will find a very vague explanation. The contract shall include the price to be paid for the goods delivered in a fixed manner or on the basis of a summary of specified factors. Here, the law refers to a regulation of the European Council or of the Parliament, essentially referring to the possibility and framework of legislative change. However, what does this regulation say? I wasn't lazy, I looked into it, and if I can find it now, I would quote it:. It is calculated by combining the various factors laid down in the contract, which may include market indicators reflecting changes in market developments, the quantity delivered and the quality or composition of the agricultural products delivered. This wording is too vague, I think it is not specific enough, so we should at least declare the method by which we calculate the buying-in price per kilogram. I propose that at least reference be made to the net present value-based cost model, as in my opinion, it is possible to model the price at which an average producer produces a given crop under normal weather conditions, even if the costs depend on the size, structure, age of the plantation and the technique in question. The net present value-based cost calculation model, there was a time when it was completely natural, it was also called cost science, it was called. Without a cost model, I would stress that there is no profit model or calculation of return, so I have a proposal for an amendment in this respect; I trust in your positive acceptance. A partly personal comment on the term industrial apple. This is reflected in the justification of the bill, and the term was used by the Secretary of State. It hurts a lot of producers a little bit, and I'll tell you why. I would like to quote again from a producer I don't know personally, but can you find this post on the Internet: our carefully produced, harvested, stored apple is just being manufactured? The fact that he's become an industrialist is the least likely to be a poor fruit and a vulnerable owner. As a producer, I would say that in the absence of a market, we are talking about an unsold or partially expired eating apple. So in the spirit of constructivity, I would suggest that we use industrial apples instead of industrial apples in the future. I hope you don't mind, Mr. Secretary. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, although this is a well-intentioned initiative, it is a proposal, but it is only a symptomatic treatment of the sector, while providing assistance, it is not a guarantee that farmers will continue to produce below the cost price. What if the processors offer 13 forints this year as well? For what and for whom to produce, or to quote my fellow Member Apáti to get tired at the end of the day? [[21.50]] There is a need for markets, incentives for consumption and restructuring, among other things. Generally speaking, since our accession to the EU in 2004, it has not been the vertical development of sectors, the manufacturing industry, but in many cases the subsidies have been used to preserve obsolete technology. There was no sufficient renovation of the plantations and the improvement of irrigation. And now we're too late. The Polish have made great progress over the last six years, particularly in the area of production organisation and processing. I suggest we learn from them, and it hurts to say it, but their cheap apples have already flooded the Hungarian market. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-19-220	Thank you, Congressman Adam Steinmetz. I now give the floor to Mr László Földi, notary, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2019-03-19-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, It is obvious to all of us that the situation of Hungarian agriculture is a key issue in terms of national economy, and we must do everything we can to put the people of this country in a better position. I am convinced that the current draft law, which is in front of this House, is a replacement, because it affects exactly the direction that farmers are most interested in, the producers are most concerned and interested. I think it is natural for us to set up this national land fund management organisation, and the law gives us the opportunity and the way to do so, but the most important thing is that, according to the decision of the European Parliament and the European Council in 1008, Member States make certain products subject to the obligation to include in writing sales contracts between producers and purchasers or processors. This is what has been missing in recent years, and this will now be put in place on the basis of this bill. Mr Secretary of State has also mentioned, and my fellow Members have said before, that basically we are talking about two very important fruits, apples and sour cherries. In my constituency there are about 1000-1200 hectares of orchards, and most of it is stone fruit; about 300 hectares of cherry are produced in our neighborhood, and the sale of sour cherries has been a very serious problem in recent years. I am convinced that this bill will help farmers to obtain a decent profit and a decent income in the case of the cultivation of these plants and fruits. I should also mention that Hungarian agriculture not only produces in Hungary, as Hungarian agriculture is a very serious export base for fruit, vegetables, grapes, wine and cereals. So farmers deserve everything, so that they do not abandon production and that as many young people as possible choose to live from agriculture, agricultural production. In addition, the KDNP faction supports the draft law, and I call on my fellow Members to do so. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-19-222	Thank you, Congressman, notary. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Mr László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2019-03-19-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In view of the late hour, I am really trying to put the new aspects on the table here in the debate. On the one hand, in the last nine years, I have remembered a number of situations where there have been interpellations, immediate questions about apples, industrial apples or cherries, which were, by the way, about amazingly low buying-in prices, interviews, immediate questions, behind which there were family tragedies, behind which farmers had huge problems. I find this proposal a little late, but otherwise I do not dispute good intentions, and otherwise it was correct to introduce it, as you suggested. I think the fact is that this could actually be a step in the direction that could provide a kind of security for producers, and that, in fact, the price formula, if it is well-founded and well put together, really calculates the factors and market developments that are expected, this could be a kind of solution. However, I would like to draw attention to two, of course, to an extreme scenario, which I think may threaten if the proposal is adopted unchanged or to reassure me that I do not think correctly, and that is not a realistic threat. The draft fixes this mandatory 60%. I think the question is what exactly is the base of this. I would point out here that, in the present form, this allows, let us say, that, when contracted by some large producers, this 60% will be carried out by a purchaser, if I understand correctly, and, where appropriate, by a purchaser who does not conclude such a contract with smaller producers. This will make the smaller ones more vulnerable than before. Therefore, it would be more justified to make a correction in this proposal which, for each producer, would need to find a method for establishing this 60% for everyone, or the smaller ones would be excluded. And the other is, what happens if the crop is significantly larger and the contracts concluded fall below 60%? Because if the buyer is actually punished for this, then the extra crop, which comes in, can only be taken over at dumped prices, i.e. an amazing low price, to reduce his loss, and this could result in extremely low buying-in prices for later crops, if I understand this situation correctly. What I would like to say is that obviously the real solution is there, what some people have mentioned here, so common interest, development, normal integration, such things can solve it. I am really trying to grasp the positive part of it, so I can see that there is a big, deep problem that my opposition fellow Members have dealt with several times here in Parliament. Now, a symptomatic treatment is coming in okay, we need more content solutions, but there's a symptomatic treatment coming up, and I may have said two extreme scenarios here, but this symptomatic treatment, if any, could cause even greater problems for some small farmers. But if I'm wrong about this, or if I'm overthinking this, then I'm asking Mr Secretary of State to settle my doubts or to rebut them, because I would like to be in a position to turn this proposal into something that I could support after the general debate with the help of the amendments. Because otherwise, the social problem is that we too feel that we do not want to find a symptomatic solution to this, and in this case we want to find a symptomatic solution. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2019-03-19-224	Thank you very much, Congressman Varga. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Mr Kárpát's comment was followed by the Jobbik Group.
u2019-03-19-225	Mr President, Dear House, The exceptional situation has been that I fully agree with and agree with what has been set out in the proposal, but my fellow Fidesz lead speaker has also taken the initiative of reminding you very briefly, not using the frameworks given by the general debate in time, that we would expect a little more modesty, whether in relation to the agricultural issue or in relation to the introduction. For as we know, the chapters of the Treaty of Accession were not discussed by a single government and not by a single cabinet. About healthily, half and half of the responsibility is shared between the various governing parties of different colours. The introduction of the free flow of capital into the chapter is an immeasurable historical sin, perhaps there is no discussion between us. At the same time, I was a member of the Consumer Protection Committee in the period 2010-14, and when you mentioned that certain circles allowed foreign food waste, other items, to be thrown into the Hungarian market, we were faced with something else in the field of reality. [[22.00]] In 2010, not by solving this problem by Fidesz-KDNP. We warned him, and he didn't. In connection with the trademark law, we have been fighting for years to ensure that the Hungarian product does not receive a trademark that has nothing to do with Hungary's country of origin, because your regulations also allowed the goods which had nothing to do with Hungary to receive a Plecs in the beginning. So the last intervention phase took place in Hungary. This marked the first four years of your government. We talked about total net self-giving and the fact that the desired Hungarian product ratio on the shelves of the various Hungarian market networks has not been achieved anywhere. And that's the same period of time as the wild game that gave money to cut up vines. Let us not talk about the former troubles, which do not fall on your government, because there was all the other madness in Nógrád that could happen in the EU from musical dairy to dog fitness salon. But what I'm most interested in is the amazing price increase on basic foods. This is what the consumer is experiencing today. Once again, I am in favour of this infusion, because this proposal is practically an infusion that helps to keep a sector alive. That's very good. However, let us not raise a success propaganda, as Hungarian branded products could not tour Europe, we did not take positions even at regional level, Hungarian processing giants have not grown out of the ground since 2010, and if my fellow Member goes into units of a chain of businesses with an Austrian interest, he finds that even in season, Hungarian peppers are available at a consumer price above HUF 500. You find that the snake pickle, which may not have come from Spain, and may have season, is available at a price above 200 forints/pieces, and do not tell me that this is normal. Compared to core inflation, the price increase in basic foods is at an amazing rate every year. I do not believe that this is a huge agricultural revolution, the result of the outbreak of agriculture, but rather I notice that they are desperately trying to keep sectors alive. I support that, but we're not looking for success here for the time being. I very much hope that this situation will change in the coming years. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-19-226	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. [[For signal:]] I see that the rapporteur, Mr Sándor Farkas, wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-03-19-227	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to abuse anyone's time at this late hour, but let me answer some of the questions that have been raised. Of course, I'm not sure I know everything in the fullest way, because these questions are complex enough. My fellow Member, János Pócs, said that it was a long-awaited law, which is now being passed to Parliament. I believe that this is the case, and the three that he referred to, the relationship between producers, processors, buyers, remains one of the most important links, a most important relationship system from the farmer in agriculture, I could say to the seller's counter or the buyer's table, of course. I thank my better fellow Member, Adam Steinmetz, for his statement that it is a law containing sympathetic elements. Indeed, and the question of apples and sour cherries is clear that these are perhaps the two types of fruit in Hungary today with which most market problems exist. But why is that a problem? That's something you could ask. It was not in 2017, it was in 2018. The quantity of crops is so cyclical depending on the weather, and it does not depend on the variety, nor on the state of the plantation, nor on the state of the plantation, but on the meteorological factors, which are largely unpredictable, and this is partly an answer to my fellow Member, my fellow Member, Mr Varga, this cyclicality, as to how much this can be forecast annually. It is extremely difficult, because there are countless other products on the market that cannot be estimated just about 50-60 percent of the production volume in the given year. I wonder if I'm here as some agricultural man, as a practical man, what will happen this summer after this spring, what harvests, what harvests. There's no one to tell you, because if it doesn't rain in the Great Plain for another week, I don't want to spread any rumors, but there's likely to be very serious problems. So I'm asking you, can anyone estimate the amount of grain crop now? You don't really know, but we're just sort of jumping to conclusions that there might be a weak medium. If it gets better, we can only be happy, but once again the question is that what we farmers always say is the weather, and we are always forgiven for the expression because we always refer to it as an idiot, even though it is a professional question. Without this, we can't bypass the affairs that surround us. [[Dr. Adam Steinmetz intervenes.]] Adam Steinmetz misses that there is no price fixed. I wouldn't dare say that on 19 March 2019, I wouldn't dare say what prices will be set in the law. This, to a large extent, I say once again the apple bloom, which will happen again by the end of next week, its fertilization and I come back with the weather issue, a lot of things, care, irrigation, various chemical interventions, the varieties, the new installation, the old installation, all define it, but I don't want to be lost in the details of this, even though I have a lot to talk about it with you. I believe that these prices should not be trained. The competitive situation that exists today in Hungary, in the world, in Europe has no such thing, no specific price for any product is enshrined in the law: neither milk, nor cereals, nor meat, nor anything. This is always decided by the relevant supply and demand market, and this comes up more strongly than in these plantations, these plants. Apart from that, the whole point of the law is that you're trying to find an affair with this 60 percent that Congressman Varga asked you about, what, the little ones can get out? I'd really like that to be a law that I think would draw attention to. We've got to get going. We've been saying that for years. Producer organisations should be launched, while respecting and enforcing contractual discipline. This is the way to go, because I ask you, a canned plant, for example, a greenpea, a green bean, a sweet corn, there is no man today who rejects it without having a contract. And there's a price for that in January. Sugar beets are the same. So in this respect, if there is a contractual discipline, and there is, of course, a question of trust, then I am sure that this 60 percent can be 70-80 percent later, and I would not dare say 100 percent, I find it unrealistic, but that this can be created again: reciprocity. This is the same duty for both the producer and the processor to think in this way, I think. The concept of industrial apples. There's no industrial apple in the law. That was in my paper, and it may have been offensive to someone, so I apologize, but there's no industrial apple wording in the law. [[Dr. Ádám Steinmetz: It's in the explanatory statement.]] It's in the justification, but there's no industrial apple in the law, there's apples and... [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: The justification is part of the law. Let's not pick on him. Of course, he's right. The president's ringing the bell.]] It's part of the law, of course. But it's not in the law right now, so I'll just say it this way. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: We accept.]] It's not in the law. Thank you. That's just for clarification. The manufacturing industry has been canceled. Unfortunately, yes. Just what the resources available in the rural development programme for the development of the various manufacturing industry, the cooling industry, are trying to cover this deficit, so to speak. Once again, the government is committed to trying to help build a processor, but we cannot rule it out in this, and it is clearly the producer's attitude that is needed. To build such a processor or preservation plant as a public company, I believe that they should not be operated as viable only by the producers, the exercise of ownership and the exercise of ownership. [[22.10]] László Földi, my fellow Member, contracts, is quite clear, his writing is decisive. I just referred to 60% here to my fellow Member, László Varga, and I also told him about the relationship between the treaties. He says that the experience of the past nine years has just been the experience of the past nine years is exactly this hectic, when the yield is high, low price, little quantity, then there is an acceptable price. Otherwise, let's be honest, it's true for almost every single agricultural product. If we look at world market prices and trends, the listing of cereals, the listing of rape oil or other vegetable processed products are moving in the same way, we are just more sensitive here, because we do not have the processing background, we do not have the industrial background for these plants, and I think we really agree that we should have done this a long time ago, but I must say again that I consider the producer initiative to be one of the most important ones. That this is a symptomatic treatment or not a symptomatic treatment, I don't think it's a symptomatic treatment, because the symptomatic treatment would have been if we had passed this law in September 2018. Now this law is about the summer and autumn of 2019, when, before that, I referred to the fact that we didn't even know what was going to happen. So thank you very much for considering Daniel Z. Carpathian, thank you for agreeing with the law. Here, with regard to the increase in basic food prices, it is also necessary to say what there are many, what was little, how much of what was produced, I could not simply draw that conclusion, of course I experience and see how the prices of certain gardening products in the shops have increased. This is mainly because of the shortage, and not only in Hungary, but also in Europe. The extremely high increase in the price of root vegetables is due to this, and, of course, when we are talking about cucumbers, tomatoes or peppers, and there is rather an increase in the price of hand labour in these products. I only have one reaction to Hungarian brand products. We'd like to narrow it down. There are a great many different brand marks that appear on products, not only the forum for excellent goods, such a forum, such a product, such a prize. The management of the Agricultural Ministry believes that they would like to be greatly simplified and transparent. This will probably come before Parliament during the autumn, and I have just said to the Member, as a comfort, that I would ask for some patience in this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-19-228	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Farkas. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. The general discussion of the bill on the settlement of the management of certain state-owned properties affected by the activities of the International Children's Rescue Service Hungarian Association will follow. Presentation submitted by representatives of Mr Péter Harrach and Mr Lőrinc KDNP T/5166. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Harrach, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame.
u2019-03-19-229	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill gives me the opportunity to present with a few sentences the International Children's Rescue Service, its activities, including its equestrian therapy service and the purpose of the bill on the settlement of property management, so that it can continue its activities so far. The roots of the International Children's Rescue Service go back to 1989, when the Transylvanian orphanage was visited, where the founders saw the situation, starving, miserable, sick children being cared for there. First the International Children's Rescue Service was established in Hanover, then the Hungarian Association was established six months later. Among the patrons of the Hungarian association we find the Hungarian President and three former Presidents of the Republic, Heinz Fischer Austrian, Horst Köhler German and László Sólyom former President of the Republic of Hungary. The Presidency will be attended by representatives of several political and philosophical sides, which will ensure the neutral activity that the association is pursuing. It aims to provide medical assistance and to improve living conditions for children who are physically, mentally injured and socially disadvantaged. The association achieves this objective under 12 programmes. We need to highlight the health programme, which covers mostly children in Transylvania and Transcarpathia who receive medical and hospital treatment here, including the costs of surgery and the costs of investigating children with neglected health. Medical practice is also operated by the association, neurological and paediatric services. In the framework of this activity, the equestrian therapy session takes place at the Horse Therapy and Training Centre in Fót. It's therapeutic pedagogical riding, horse tournament, hippotherapy and psychological horse therapy. I also have to mention, when it comes to numbers, that in the last year, the number of occupations has exceeded three thousand, many children who are returning guests, and we may even say that they benefit from these occupations, because there are children with disabilities, autistic, behavioral disorders, for whom contact with animals is an experience. For 20 years, this activity has been taking place in Foton, a secluded part of the Fót castle park, which was also used as a landfill and was restored by the association. All this comes into contact with the children's town of Fot, but it is not a part of it, but a neighbor. It should be mentioned that the Hungarian Cavalry Therapy Association was established under the training and further training programme, with its assistance and support, in which theoretical and practical training is carried out for horse therapy professionals. The association is also happy to assist and cooperate with other organisations. In this context, they have established appropriate links to the supply of aid to a number of Western European organisations, plans to rebuild hospitals, children's homes, restructuring and a logistical background. The association is also involved in organizing various events. We can mention every year the event on the World Children's Day in Parliament's Upper House Hall, or the children's Christmas in Parliament, where 800 disadvantaged children attend. But we could also mention the children's day event in City Park and many other things. Finally, let me just say about the bill that it aims to properly clarify the irregular conditions of use of the properties used so far, and to ensure a long-term settlement of the legal relationships of state-owned properties. [[22.20]] The state territories received from the National Asset Manager and the National Land Fund Manager were used, and this management right was registered in the land register many years ago. The issue of the right of operator has now been re-established because these contracts need to be renewed because of the changed legal background. The association is designated as a trustee in accordance with the National Property Act for the properties listed in the Annex to the bill. As a public task, the asset management activities performed justify the full free exercise of property management. I have to mention, in connection with the bill, that it is the 7th. § 2 ensures that the association can invest in real estate that is managed by property. In summary, the proposal aims to ensure that the association can carry out its therapeutic tasks in a professional manner under predictable, orderly conditions and raise them to a higher level by investing. According to the association's statement, this activity is intended to continue without prejudice to the interests of anyone. The areas that the association has been using for 20 years now give the opportunity to continue this important activity for the children for another 20 years in the context of the treaty to be renewed. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-19-230	Thank you very much, Mr. Péter Harrach. I ask you to speak on behalf of the government, Mr Secretary of State. [[For signal:]] It says yes. Secretary of State János Fónagy has the floor.
u2019-03-19-231	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The government is committed to providing preventive, lack-reinforcing health promotion services for children with disabilities and patients. Our aim is to help improve the health of young people and to develop their future self-living by strengthening inclusion and integration. Health-enhancing benefits include horse therapy, which, together with the associated additional therapies, can be recommended as nearly 70-80 percent of children and adults with disabilities. To ensure this, my fellow Member, Péter Harrach, submitted T/5166 on the settlement of the management of certain state-owned property in connection with the activities of the International Children's Rescue Service Hungarian Association. We agree with the objectives set out in the legislative proposal No. Dear Parliament, As mentioned in the author's head office, the International Children's Rescue Service Hungarian Association has been providing assistance to family and children's institutions raising children with disabilities or injuries through several professional programmes since 1990 with the possibility of horse therapy development provided by it. The association established the foundations of the cavalry centre in Foton as early as 2001. The renovation of buildings and the development of the centre are ongoing, with significant financial support from the government in 2017. Furthermore, since 2007, the association has had a property management contract on the outside of Fót, which has been included in the proposal since 2007, in respect of property No 0242 and 0204/1, which was concluded by the National Land Fund Management Organisation, acting on behalf of the Hungarian State. I would like to mention that the law applies to these two serial numbers, and there is no need for legal settlement in respect of other serial numbers. The restrictive provision of the National Property Act concerning the potential person of the trustees and the rules of the National Land Fund Act on the management of state property did not allow for any substantive modification of the asset management contract. At the same time, the present proposal is adapted to the government's idea that the management of the land concerned should be regulated by law, so that the asset management relationship can be renewed in accordance with the legal provisions in force and can be converted, in the light of the public service remit, even free of charge. On the basis of this bill, the association will be designated by law for a period of 20 years as trustees of additional state-owned land, both previously transferred to asset management and necessary for the development that has already begun, if the proposal is accepted by this House. On the basis of the proposal, there is no need to initiate a separate ownership contribution for investments in order to achieve the development goals in an efficient and smooth manner. A further proposed facilitation is that the trustee can sell the material of value generated by the demolition during the investment itself by using the proceeds thus obtained for development purposes. By regulating the trust relationship in this way, not only the aim of the association is achieved, but also the State can expect a significant increase in assets, since the State does not have to reimburse the State for the State's investments created by the association in the course of its development. Dear House, The bill on the settlement of the management of the property of certain state-owned properties affected by the activities of the International Children's Rescue Service Hungarian Association also serves the support of the civil sector, which plays a role alongside the state and local authorities. That is why I would ask my fellow Members to discuss the bill, and perhaps to make their comments with a positive intention. Thank you for your attention. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-19-232	Thank you, Secretary of State, János Fónagy. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Hadházy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-03-19-233	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The rapporteur, Mr Péter Harrach, was very precise and graphically presented to this association, this civil society organisation, its activities, its objectives and its operation. I do not want to add to this, because this was a very precise picture of the situation. I would like to recall my old memories when I was a county councilman, and we visited this institution when this whole horse therapy program began, and it was presented to us as a completely novelty. To tell you the truth, at first I was a little skeptical about this information, this news about what this horse therapy might add to children and parents, but I still remember the faces, the eyes I saw there, who were involved in this program. For me, it was a permanent picture, and I remember it today, and it made an extraordinary impression on me. I am convinced that indeed a public service that is going on there is a very thoughtful, thoughtful, well-made activity. [[22.30]] In order to enable this association to continue the riding, horse-therapy of injured children in need under predictable conditions and to raise its investment to a higher level, it is essential that long longer-term settlement of the legal relationships of state-owned property that can be used for the above-mentioned activity is carried out. In this context, ensuring the trusting right of state-owned property in the proposal to the association is the solution that best supports the activities of children for healthy development. This is what the proposal seeks to ensure by ensuring by law the right to property management for a period of 20 years in respect of the properties listed in the Annex to the proposal. The public task related to property management is to contribute to the development, management, education and integration of disadvantaged, sick or injured children, to the education, camping, environmental thinking of children, and to the state's tasks related to the development of Hungarian horse sports and horse racing. In order to achieve the above objective, the proposal amends the 2010 LXXXVII on the National Earth Fund. Act No.1 that the transfer of land belonging to the National Land Fund may be ordered by a separate law to the organisation specified therein. This amendment is justified in order to achieve the objective pursued by the bill, since according to the rules currently in force, the exploitation of land belonging to the National Earth Fund is governed only by the rules of the National Earth Fund Act, under which the use of the land concerned may take place in accordance with the land policy directives. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill also ensures the free use of real estate. The property shall not be charged until 1 September 2020 and shall not have the right of any entity or person other than the trustee, as the proposal provides for the nullity of the contrary contracts. The contracts granting the right of use on real estate to a person or entity other than the trustee shall be terminated at the date of entry into force of the law, with effect from 31 August 2020, without any specific act by virtue of this Act. Ladies and gentlemen, The objective of the bill is noble and therefore has the full support of the Fidesz-KDNP fraction. In order to allow the association to continue its meaningful work at an appropriate level, please support the proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-19-234	Thank you, Congressman Sándor Hadházy. I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Rig, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2019-03-19-235	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I am sorry that this very important and second most important question of the day has come so late. If people who view today's parliamentary mediation from a tabloid point of view and go through the legislative amendments that have been on the agenda today, then if they look at the text of the proposal, the International Children's Rescue Service will even pass through it, because it is a real estate transfer. But this isn't a branch of the National Rescue Service involved in rehospital care. Then, if he is so fanatical and tries to get even more involved in this draft law, it turns out that this is an association that is in need of help for starving children, whether within our borders or beyond our borders, and, of course, it is eligible, and each citizen agrees. As they said in the intro, the organization itself deals with horse therapy and medicine. This is not the only such organisation in Hungary, there are a lot of organizations involved in similar activities, including if we look at Veszprém County in Tótvázsony, or if we go to another county, there is Kertán, where the National Association of People with Mental Disabilities holds medical pedagogical training for those in need every year, which I think can make their everyday life easier. However, if we take a closer look at the presentation and the date, we can start thinking about a few things. When I first took this presentation into my hands, I wrote three main points: why now, why here and why you? I will also expect an answer, especially from the author, who very nicely told me when this whole foundation began, there will be full political, multi-party members of the presidency and vice-president of the Foundation. He forgot to introduce himself as Vice President and László Fat as president. If we go up to the Association's website and look at this introduction, and I will read it here:, We make sure that the Service is neutral and independent on political, religious and ethnic issues. The lies they have written are already lies, because there are politicians in the Presidency, which should not be a problem yet. And, Congressman Nacsa, take note of this, because I will have a very important question which completely discredits this proposal. I think that if there are politicians involved, then it is worth looking at the activities of this association, the proceeds that have come into the accounts of the association in recent years, you have to look at the environment, the real estate that they are about to own. If we stick to the text of the draft law, a distinction must be made between the registered trustee and the trustee: 2020, the International Children's Rescue Service Hungarian Association and the Károlyi István Children's Centre until 31 August 2020. The properties cannot be charged until September 1, 2020 and what will happen after that? That's my first question. However, if we go back to those amounts and look at the circle of donors in the annual accounts, it is very easy to find out what we are talking about here. The sponsors include the Magyar Kereskedelmi Bank, National Bank, Szerencségy Zrt., OTP, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Prime Minister's Office, EMMI with a €1.5 billion grant, from which a horse stable was renovated and the service rooms. On the other hand, if we look at, say, the annual accounts from 2010, I will also signal to Mr Vice-President, if he has an influence, then ask the association or the person entitled to submit these reports to take a note for 2013 and now, Mr Nacsa, because this will be a very important moment, which should have been done by 31 May 2014 and would have had a legal obligation. When we take an oath here in Parliament after elections, the text is that, as Members of Parliament, I swear that I will be faithful to the laws of Hungary, I will keep its laws and keep them with others. The proposal, which would serve the purpose, is noble, but until this association retains Hungary's legislation, such a proposal cannot be brought here in my opinion. If you think otherwise, explain the reason why you failed to comply with your statutory obligations for 2013. And now it's about the law. [[22.40]] If we go over to his tabloid part, you know and it is undeniable that this thing did not just start, it was already tried in 2015, but then the Fidesz majority government could not do it in the course of internal disputes. Now they're trying to wrap it in such a charity envelope, so it's clear that the law is not being respected by this association, and you're asking for our support for it, so I'll say it again and stress that they should do a noble thing in Hungary today, whether it's horse therapy or, say, dog therapy. Here we have to mention, say, the Dr. Rex, who has excellent use of this therapy in mentally impaired children, and their activity is not supported to this extent by such amounts. And there is another question, which applies to the year 2017. What is the purpose of the 785 million HUF security? I'm sure they're aware of that, especially the author. Also, if you look at the 2017 report, 18 non-profit organizations were supported from 234 million forints; this is also a question and we would like to receive correct and concrete answers. But the most important thing is, and I think that this issue cannot be overlooked, and we cannot go on without an answer, that you, as legislators, if we really recall our vows, we swore that we would keep and enforce all the laws. How can you not submit a report for 2013? If you can answer this question, we can go further on this issue, but until there is an answer to that, I think that this presentation should be taken out of the agenda. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-19-236	Thank you, Congressman Rig. I now give the floor to Congressman László Varju, Democratic Coalition.
u2019-03-19-237	Thank you very much. Dear House, It is not surprising that the fate of this property is in some form itself, because in 2015 I was there at the first protest or the one due at the time when it came to the idea that you were planning something else instead of the children. The whole thing remained obscure, but it was a virtually impossible situation in which many did not want to participate, and many protested against it on the spot. In fact, it seems that the situation was ripe for today, and you have decided that this property will be diverted from its former goals and will be used in something else. It was expected that they would appear there, even though there would be a number of questions. As long as you fail to clarify these things, I believe that whatever justification you are proposing, this proposal cannot be supported. I am already told that this amendment was tabled as an individual representative. I do not think it is an obvious goal to avoid negotiations, and you want to avoid them in this way, and I therefore believe that this cannot be accepted. Article 3 of the proposal is replaced by the following: §2 of the Act declares the development of national horse sports and horse racing to be a public task in addition to the care of disadvantaged and injured children. Obviously, this is the right to exempt from any obligations otherwise imposed by the State Property Act. The qualification as a public service mission is likely to entail the classification of all investments as priority investments and thus exclude public procurement from any other public authority procedure. They've found a way to do that, or at least they're planning to do it in this form. Otherwise, there is no reference in the bill to the remuneration of disadvantaged and injured children for the use of the facility. As a public task, it should have been clearly stated in this law that, by applying the provisions of the Public Education Act, expert and rehabilitation committees should be entitled to refer these children here in expert opinions, without any payment obligation. You can also see that the 4th. The provisions of the Civil Code are grossly infringed by the abolition, by virtue of the law, of the different rental, trust, and lease rights, which in fact allow free access and organise the use of the later period. The bill is 7. In paragraph 2 of this Article, the association shall be granted an unlimited right of disposal as a trustee, since no authorisation or approval of the entity acting on behalf of the State in exercising its right of ownership or of the minister will be required. So the 7th. In paragraph 3 of Section 3, the State resigns, as was mentioned here, the income from the demolition, the amount of which is not known, as the Secretary of State said. Special attention should be paid to the bill 10. In addition, this provision is considered to be fundamental by the bill, so you want to keep it safe in all circumstances. As far as we know, it creates a situation in itself that I regret that a good idea, a noble goal, has been named by you in such a way that, by the way, this is essentially excluded from the state conciliation mechanism. Question is, kids don't have to go to the International Children's Rescue Service to get new areas, and that's the solution for you. Of course, you, who give your name to this, and who appear to be more involved and more responsible, honourable Member, I think you were wrong when this was presented to Parliament in this form. Do this in the ordinary procession, and do it in such a way that people can remain confident that what this association is doing will indeed be done in the future, and they will not be used only as a screen in which everyone and you all benefit, and at the end we will wonder how everything has the consequence of privateizing the property that has been ordered for a completely different purpose at some point. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-03-19-238	Thank you, Congressman László Varju. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward is the first to speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind.
u2019-03-19-239	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I am very sorry, too, that it is 11:00 a.m., and we are discussing this bill at such an impossible time, because I think that the restriction of the public is inevitable, because a large part of the voters are sleeping in this country, and they are not following the work of the Parliament, although I think that both pro-government speeches and opposition speeches are very instructive, and I think that the debate as a whole is very important. I am truly sorry to discuss such an important presentation at such an impossible hour. Obviously I'm here, so I'm working until the night, there's no problem with that part of it, but the problem is that voters can't monitor our work directly, because once again, it's 11:00 a.m. I would be happy if we could better adapt to the biorhythm of voters and thus enable them to follow our work. [[22.50]] Just because this whole bill is really very instructive. I don't dispute the importance of horse therapy. You know very well, and I think my work shows that my commitment to children, especially children in need, is complete, complete and unwavering. However, that is precisely why I would like to look at this entire bill from another side, from the perspective of the children's centre in Fót, in the neighbourhood of the Child Rescue Service. My fellow Member Nacsa and I started a debate in the Economic Committee, which, unfortunately, we could not finish for reasons of order, because I did not get a word enough and we could not discuss what the various land register certificates contained. But after the committee meeting, I spoke to the Children's Rescue Service, went to the Land Office, went to the site, and looked into whether the area of the Fót Children's Center had been reduced in connection with the bill. Unfortunately, I had to come to the conclusion that it was falling. I would like to talk about these specifics. I would have liked it if we could settle this in committee, but I think that it is not too late here in plenary. There are three residential properties in the bill, and two of them are currently part of the Fót Children's Centre and are also actively used. No. 1563 is a small garden with a ruined building. And now it's being used by child rescuers. That's not what I want to focus on. There is another area, the number 1565/4, with seven family houses in which the current and former employees of the children's centre, who are currently retired, live with their families. Imagine an intimate living environment with small kitchen gardens. Plus, there's also the therapeutic gardening of special children. Here's a greenhouse that's been refurbished, and there's a grassy meadow, from which I've been told that they're feeding special children's sheep for therapeutic purposes. I'm telling you, I had the opportunity to consult with the staff of the Fóti who lived there in the field. And so that you would not just have to imagine what this area looks like, which you would unplug from the children's center in Fót, I have brought it and I would like to show you that these family houses look exactly like this. [[He's showing the photos on A4 pages.]] They're here. I think you can see clearly that there are families here, these are areas in use. I would also like to show you the greenhouse that serves the therapeutic development of special children now living in the children's centre in Fót. And there's another family house. All I wanted to do was illustrate that an active area would be attached to the children's center in Fót and would be handed over to the child's rescue service. I'm asking what happens to the people here. I would like Mr Harrach and my fellow Member Nacha to answer this question. Because there are workers here, retired people living with their families. What will their fate be? What about their housing? [[Peter Harrach: Stay there!]] Excuse me, Mr. Group Leader, I can't accept this, and I'd like you to say that after pressing a button. I'd also like to ask what happens to therapeutic gardening. I would also like to know this precisely, and I would like a clear statement from the Hungarian Parliament on what the people working there should be up to. I am pleased to see that my fellow Member Nacsa is consulting with the Head of the Group, and I hope that we will have an answer to this question. Just because I received a letter from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári on 18 September 2017 was the last time, but I did not get an exact answer. I hope that we will go home from this night's debate to find out exactly what happens to the workers who live here, what their fate will be. And once again, in the committee, my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, falsely stated that no area would be attached from the children's centre. Actively used territory would be transferred to Child Services, and there are open questions, people's fates open. The question of where the missing 2013 report on the association is, my fellow Members, is indeed an important and cardinal issue. We spoke to my better colleagues here during the break, and they detected that the foundation also lacked a report. So if you would be so kind and reflect on our questions, please be kind and explain where the report of the association as well as the foundation can be found from 2013. I'm gonna finish up here. I may still take advantage of the two-minute opportunity that I have, or with further speeches, because what we have not been able to discuss fully at the committee meeting, I would like to make it clear here in plenary, even because, once again, at the committee meeting, you said that you were not going to land the area from the children's centre in Fot. Unfortunately, yes, an active area would be transferred. And I've got proof of that, I've been to the ground office, I've been to the crime scene in the field. I don't think there's a better way to look at it. Thank you for your answers.
u2019-03-19-240	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We now have further speeches from our representatives. They'd be next, but I don't see a candidate. [[Lajos Rig reporting.]] I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Rig, Jobbik.
u2019-03-19-241	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As Mr President says, we would look forward to the next speakers and we would like answers to our questions. The 2013 accounts of the Foundation and the 2013 accounts of the association. They don't know where it is, it doesn't exist, so it doesn't exist in outer space, not even beyond the Stargate. Then there is only one question we want to know if you think this is legal. If not in any other speech, please inform us in a two-minute time frame of your views on the infringement. Do you think it is legitimate that an association or a foundation does not comply with the sections and legislation of the Accounting Act, does not prepare a report for 2013, we cannot see it, nor has the Foundation done so, and you have now submitted a legislative amendment and a proposal to us and are waiting for our support who does not comply with the law? I think, in fact, I put it in a different way: I ask the rapporteur and the remaining Members of the KDNP and Fidesz, or even the Minister, who we can welcome here, or the Secretary of State, what his opinion is about this. Do you think that's legal? [[Dr. János Fónagy: Yes.]] It's legal, he nods. It's legal. Great. If you think so, you misinterpreted the oath that you have taken, and I think your heart dictates that the law must and must be observed. I asked you a question, and maybe the reason you don't answer it is because now you tell me, and then everyone forgets. But it won't be forgotten. Putting a good goal in a dirty robe like this doesn't really suit Christian Democrats. My wife worked for the National Association of People with Intellectual Disabilities for years, dealing with mentally disabled and mentally impaired children. The professionalism that the National Association of People with Intellectual Disabilities has done over the past few years, you are now trying to make with such a rule, so to speak, a money launderer. I asked questions I didn't get answers to. Then I'll put on a few more, see if they feel like it. If you look at the 2017 report again, which can be found, unlike in 2013, there is a personal expense, if I say correctly, worth 140 million HUF. If you look at the details, 61 volunteers are employed by this association. If we interpret it literally, volunteers will not receive remuneration for their work, as they are volunteers. Where and where does 140 million go? And the main question is who. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] If we could get answers to these, I think that if we could not conclude the debate, but at least bring it to such a level that an association that is trying to achieve and serve a good purpose may even receive this support from the opposition. But as long as they are not clear, I think that as a Member of Parliament, such a proposal cannot be supported, and certainly cannot be supported as pro-government unless there is some interest in you. [[23.00]] That's the last question. What is your interest in this proposal? Please, for now, in the debate or in the conversation, but the conversation requires another person to try to answer. Let's just say silence is okay, so I can accept that. I'm sure the judge will give the verdict. Thank you.
u2019-03-19-242	Welcome back to my fellow Members at 11 a.m. We've got two-minute speakers coming up. I give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind.
u2019-03-19-243	I just want to stress that we are waiting for answers to a lot of questions, and I do not want this night to end with no answers to these questions. Especially those people who are involved will not be answered, and they are now watching the Parliament's work, despite the fact that it is 11:00 a.m., 23:00 a.m. Enthusiastic metacommunication from KDNP representatives. With all due respect, I would also like to ask Mr Group Leader and my fellow Member Nacsa to comment on the debate. Because it is called a debate, and as my fellow Member, Mr Rig, has said, it takes two parties. We're here. We haven't been able to put it overnight enough to get us out of here. Then be kind, honor the voters by responding.
u2019-03-19-244	Thank you. I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi in two minutes.
u2019-03-19-245	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I am now planning a genre disorder because I am addressing my fellow opposition Members. [[Turning around, he's talking to opposition representatives.]] Dear Wind Bernadett! Dear Lajos Rig. I think it's a vain fantasy to expect KDNP or Fidesz representatives to respond. They're cowards. They're cowards, because then they'd have to face reality. It is not in their interest, as my fellow Member, Mr Rig said, to protect an interest that they do not wish to disclose behind silence. I think we need to put the mosaics together. The mosaics are about discussing a proposal in the late night, with the passive exclusion of the public, and clearly there is my fellow Member Nacsa, who so far has expressed the government's position in a loud voice, who has made very strong speeches, for example, in the debate on the family protection action plan, and now sits silently, ashamed, with his eyes closed. I understand that you are ashamed, my fellow Member, but I think that all pro-government Members should be ashamed of trying to make a debate impossible by such means. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-19-246	Thank you. On a two-minute comment, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Rig.
u2019-03-19-247	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll take back the two minutes if there's a pro-government representative who's applied.
u2019-03-19-248	No.
u2019-03-19-249	I'm sorry. It would have been possible during the congressman's expo. I think it would've taken a second to push the button. Interestingly, at the very first item on the agenda, it was very busy, and then the room was almost full. Try to force a sensible sentence out of you, Congressman, and tell me why we won't find this 2013 report. Yeah, 'cause no, they didn't upload it. Then I'd like an answer from one more. I said that if we look at the report from 2017, there is a HUF 785 million worth of securities, and if we go through the lines, the report shows that this association has lost 25 million losses. How could that be? If we look at the opposition comments that highlight the real estate speculation, we should also mention that not far from my constituency, in the former pioneering camp in Zanka, which is the Erzsébet camp, there is also a similar one, where the Pápai Vocational Training Center Egry József Vocational School will be terminated. The building stays because someone needs it. We can assume that he's an oligarch who's been buying a lot of TV channels lately, and he knows how to install gas and water. Children study there too. They're studying trades. Photon children were raised. Children who are mentally ill. And they're bringing in a law with an association whose financial background is unclear. Try to give us an answer on these. Let us be reassured that everything is fine financially. Financially, I'm sure it's okay, because there's money in this association. Then the last question isn't where Damon Hill went, where the 2013 report went. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2019-03-19-250	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman László Varju in two minutes.
u2019-03-19-251	Thank you very much. Dear House, Well, it's kind of embarrassing what's happening right now, because we really don't get answers to any of the questions that come up. You leave us in doubt, and the belief is strengthened, as I said a few years ago, that yes, it was feared that not only children but also pensioners who lived there would be replaced. You have decided that this will be the form in which this can be done, and that is what you are trying to protect. However, there has been another inconvenience for today's debate. Mr Secretary of State is obviously taking on this issue, but here is also Minister of Finance, who must listen to all this, in addition to talking about the lack of financial reports. All this must be patiently heard, and I can say that this responsibility must also be assumed, that you know what is happening, that you want to illegally support an association which, as you said, is unable to present, produce, or do so. What, then, will you do not only as a Member of Parliament but also as a responsible leader? Overall, I think it is very unpleasant not only the late date, but also the subject itself. I think it gives us all a future task to see what's going to happen to Foton. It will be worth monitoring, and we will tell you again and again. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-19-252	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Rig.
u2019-03-19-253	Thank you very much. Mr President, my question is the same, that there is no other candidate now. [[The president says no.]] Then I would ask Mr Secretary of State, as a representative of the government, to try to answer the questions that the national and the members of the government in there are unable to answer. If I may ask, not in a closed word, today's request to respond, not in a closed word, but even in a debate, or if it is not a debate, then let us have this conversation, so that in the heat of the conversation we can still ask questions, if you can calm us down with something that will bring this matter forward. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-03-19-254	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the conversation. [[No one's reporting.]] No one wishes, so the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr. Nacsa Lőrinc, the author.
u2019-03-19-255	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, First of all, allow me to thank the government and the Fidesz fraction on behalf of the authors for their support for the proposal. Allow me to try to answer the questions raised in the speeches as best I can. Interestingly, all Members have suggested why we are arguing about this at 11 p.m. Congressmen, ladies, you were here with us in the debate on the family protection plan. There, Congressman Csárdi pressed twenty-seven times in a row. Well, the argument went on, no one planned this for the night. The debate, I think, was originally scheduled for 7:15 p.m., according to the Bureau's estimates. The fact that this is the first time that Bernadett Wind will be in Parliament to work today, we can't do that. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: You're lying!]] So it's definitely not like it's some kind of night plan. Lajos Rig asked a very simple question. I wouldn't have dared to use visual instruments without permission, as Wind Bernadett did, but since he did, I'll show him. [[It presents a tablet with written text on it.]] This is the 2013 report. You can find about two clicks on the body's website. [[Anita Kőrösi: It's not there! Lajos Rig: Court of Justice! Anita Kőrösi: Birosag.hu! Lajos Rig goes to Lőrinc Nacsa and sits next to him.]] On birosag.hu, someone didn't upload that in court. [[Lajos Rig is making a move towards the tablet just shown up.]] Congressman, I'm about to finish the speech, and I'm going to give it to you in a moment. [[Mihály Varga: The congressman is under the influence of a mind-altering agent!]] The fact that someone doesn't upload it to the courtroom is a court administrator... [[Anita Potochanya Kőrösi: Not the court administrator!]] Ask the court a written question, since it is being filled through the system of the court. The 2013 report, like all others, can be found on the Children's Rescue website at about three and a half clicks. [[23.10]] Obviously, I have to say it's a mistake that you didn't find this, and I found this in two and a half minutes. I'm guessing they didn't try so hard to find him by accident. And once again, the usual sport of the opposition, the shadows, can be cast here at this late hour. [[Lajos Rig goes over to Lőrinc Nacsa and takes a seat.]] It is very important that Congressman Lajos Rig, when he has already sat in the KDNP fraction temporarily, although I think that this is something that the faction must vote on, whether we accept it, and the outcome of the vote is in question, but he asked two questions: why here and why now. [[Mihály Varga: I need a probe.]] Why now? It's very simple. This right to manage the association will expire in the next period, which is precisely why it is important that the activities of the association be ensured in that area from 2020. The,, why now?, is the answer in a chronological order, because if we were to draw this question and it were not settled this year, then next year the cavalry therapy centre could start operating in an uncertain manner. Hundreds of children would be in a precarious position to know where to go to therapy. Why now? to this answer. Why here?, as the Secretary of State has already said, there are two areas that need to be regulated by law, and, to the best of my knowledge, the place of legislative action is the Hungarian Parliament, so why here? That's why Mr. Péter Harrach and the head of the group presented this bill. That's the answer to that. How can I say that? It is rather strange that opposition representatives take every opportunity to attack us, take every opportunity to try to discredit the government's policy in some way, and even use children in need and children with disabilities to criticize us and attack us. I find this a little unworthy, my fellow Members, because it is children who deserve this help, who have been in this therapy for many years, for whom this therapy is good for many times, who, if they could not get it, would not be able to afford to take part in such therapy elsewhere, let us say financially. And as I said at the committee meeting about the Fóti Children's City, apart from the good neighbourliness and the fact that children also go to horse therapy "Teachers go to training from there, too, besides that, there is no connection. I don't understand the status of the Democratic Coalition at your press conference last week that we somehow brought in this bill out of the way or in the naughty way. We have not asked for any emergency procedure, we have not asked for any exceptional procedure, we have brought it to the House as a simple motion from Members of Parliament, as I have seen it done several times in recent months, and he has also made a bill before the Parliament with his rights and the rights of the House. I don't think it's such a crime, and you shouldn't suggest to the Democratic Coalition that there's some sort of extraordinary or urgency here, because that wasn't the case, but that's what you said. I'm gonna have to decline that. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind's questions or a significant part of her questions would have been answered if she had listened to the exposé. He was just pushing his phone the whole time because the selfie and the social media page were once again more important than Mr. Group leader's account of the issues. He did not listen to one word of what the author said in his expozee, as there have already been several questions. For example, the answer was that the current bill applies to the real estate used so far. What you were talking about as an area is two areas also used by Fóti Children's City, where, I said that at the committee meeting yesterday, the Children's Rescue used that area. I didn't say it was owned by him, but it wasn't property in any way, I said that it was the areas in which the Children's Rescue was used, which have been used so far. Just as you may have called it a haystack or a landfill, the Children's Rescue was active. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: I didn't say that.]] With regard to real estate, we also have a promise from the association's management that the current contracts will obviously not be touched and that everyone, as they live there, will try to ensure this. Contracts, which are not owned by these real estate, by families or by former pensioners, but are based on a contract, are being tried to maintain these contracts. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: You wanna try? What do you mean, they're trying?]] Obviously, there's no story here that you're trying to point to. This is a secluded area, the care of children is not affected in any way by this issue. It does not affect at all, because they are not there, there are no children living in this area, and there is no care going on. All goals so far remain secure. And I think that the fact that you are attacking a noble cause is that you are really attacking the people's association and its goals is unworthy, even to you. I think it's particularly painful that you usually confuse this case with the case of Fóti Children's City. They confuse it to create uncertainty in the minds of the children there, to create uncertainty in the minds of the workers there, because your goal is political hystericalism, not that those children and those workers can do their job as peacefully as possible, to live as peacefully as possible where they are. It is precisely the government who does everything for the children who live there, which is precisely why it is constantly trying to improve their situation, which is precisely why we are thinking about it, but the fact that you create hysteria and thus create uncertainty in the minds of the people who live there is, in my opinion, unworthy of this situation. I think that I have also tried to answer the questions of Mr Rig Lajos, who has asked these questions about the report. If you give me an e-mail address, I'd be happy to send you this report. We have tried to answer all the questions, and I really ask that you support this bill for a good purpose. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-03-19-256	Thank you, Congressman. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. It is now up to the general debate on the draft law amending certain laws on financial matters, pending its conclusion. The government referral is T/5234. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Minister for Finance Mihály Varga, the author of the item on the agenda.
u2019-03-19-257	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Last week, the government submitted a bill amending certain laws on financial matters, which contains minor but significant amendments affecting several different areas. [[Lajos Rig and Dr. Bernadett Wind go to Lőrinc Nacsa, who is in his seat.]] One of the most important measures is to encourage longer-term savings, in which the government has set itself the objective of making investment in sovereign debt more attractive to small investors, which will benefit both the stakeholders and the growth of sovereign debt stocks reduces the vulnerability of the Hungarian economy. Allow me, in connection with this, to mention some data in the magistrate. [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2019-03-19-258	I must apologize to Minister. I would like to ask my fellow Members, who are having a separate discussion during the expo, to continue with this outside. I don't know, you can hear it, fellow Members. Hello, my fellow Members, do you hear an expo coming from the Minister of Finance, and I would like you to stop talking and either listen or have your conversation outside? Thank you very much. Excuse me, Minister, you have the floor.
u2019-03-19-259	Thank you, Mr. President. Then allow me to continue. In connection with this, let me mention some data to you in the magistrate's office. The participation of the population in the financing of public debt has increased substantially over the last 7 years. The population's share of the sovereign debt market has jumped from 5 per cent to 20 per cent, after it stands at almost HUF 5900 billion by eight times their sovereign debt stock. As a result, debt financing has become more stable as the population is a reliable investor, typically less willing to dispose of its sudden sovereign debt than foreign investors in the event of market disruption. On the other hand, it is also important that the interest paid increases the income of the Hungarian population and strengthens the domestic economy. Moreover, a healthier structure of debt reduces Hungary's external exposure and vulnerability. Therefore, the increasing proportion of domestic funding is also considered positive by credit rating agencies, so it has been considered as a particularly positive factor in the upgrades of February this year. This support feedback also highlights the need to maintain and even strengthen the role of the population in financing debt. [[23.20]] In view of this, the government aims to double the sovereign debt stock of the population, which it also intends to support through tax instruments. The current bill therefore initiates, in addition to other measures, a supplement to the Personal Income Tax Act. The proposed new rule exempts the payment of personal income tax from the debt securities issued by the Hungarian State and placed on the market for the general public as a target market for investors, in a simpler way, interest income from public sovereign debt. This income will not be burdened by any other public burden. The exemption rule will apply to series of sovereign debt sold to the general public issued from 1 June 2019. The proposal also concerns the legislation on housing savings banks. In order to ensure the availability of sovereign debt to the public on as many locations as possible, the proposed amendment will allow housing savings banks to market sovereign debt in the future, i.e. to deal with the distribution of such paper. Ladies and gentlemen, Among other things, the bill complements the Tax Act with measures relating to the registration of automatic equipment. As a first step in the connection of automated equipment without handling staff to the State tax authority, the obligation to provide online data on food sales equipment has been fulfilled by the taxpayers concerned since 1 July 2018. Since the introduction of this obligation, sales data for nearly 25,000 devices have been received by the State tax authority. As a follow-up to this economic whitening measure, the bill contains legislative amendments that are necessary to require the online reporting of other automated equipment operating without handling staff to the State tax authority. Dear Parliament, The bill defines the concept of automatic equipment by amending the Act on the Rules of Taxation. This means that any equipment capable of operating without a crew carrying out the supply of goods or services is considered to be automatic equipment and is intended for the payment of cash in return for such or any other activity. With the introduction of the new concept, the devices concerned can be well defined and the registration obligation for automatic equipment can also be imposed. Once the registration obligation has been fulfilled, the tax authority will have an accurate picture of the number and number of automated equipment in the country. The proposal contains only the most basic rules for the notification of automatic equipment, while the detailed rules for the notification will be laid down in an implementing regulation. Under the rules in force, the public tax and customs authorities are subject to an obligation to disclose the registration and location of automatic equipment without handling staff for the supply of foodstuffs. On the basis of the bill, such data should be made public for all automatic equipment. In addition to what has been said, the bill also states that automatic equipment operating at the time of the entry into force of the law must be notified to the State tax and customs authorities by 30 June 2019. Of course, vending machines which have already been notified are an exception. In addition, the bill includes technical clarification and the repeal of the authorisation provision for the establishment of an administrative service fee linked to the obligation to notify. The amendment of the Act on the Rules of Taxation contained in the bill before Parliament prepares for real-time information to be provided to the tax office on the sales data of all automatic equipment. This would therefore apply not only to food and beverage vending machines, but also in the future, as we hope, to other such automatic equipment, such as parking machines in public areas. The bill contains, among other things, measures that are favourable to the population and further steps to whiten the economy, and I therefore call on my fellow Members to vote in favour of its adoption. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-19-260	Thank you, Minister. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor first to Sándor Hadházy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-03-19-261	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before you covers the fight against the black economy and the further effective recovery of the purchase of public sovereign debt. As you may know, we have been saying for a very long time that we want to keep reducing taxes, but we want to collect taxes as accurately as possible, and that is, in essence, the purpose of this proposal, among other things. The government has set itself the goal of making investment in sovereign debt more attractive to small investors. The reason for this is that we want the government debt to be committed domestically, and we want to replace foreign ties with domestic engagements. That is why it is important for us to have the wider participation of the population. In addition, the proposal contains legislative amendments in order to continue the previous economic whitening measures which are necessary to require the provision of online data to the State tax authority of other automated equipment operating without handling staff. Dear Parliament, An important economic policy objective for the government is to increase the supply of sovereign debt to the public. According to the proposal, the income from the public sovereign debt issued by the Hungarian State would be free of interest and yield would be exempt from its obligation, since under the current legislation, the return on residential sovereign debt is to be paid at 15 per cent. The exemption rule applies to series of sovereign debt sold to the general public issued from 1 June 2019. In order to ensure the availability of sovereign debt to the public at as many locations as possible, it is proposed that housing savings banks should also be able to deal with the future distribution of sovereign debt. Dear Parliament, The government has always placed great emphasis on reducing the black economy, for which we have already introduced a number of measures. Their effectiveness is demonstrated by the increasing awareness of these actions in Europe as well. There is an increasing international interest in the electronic road traffic control system, the EKAER and online cash registers. While the Gyurcsány-, Bajnai-government was idly watching tax evasion and even collecting tax revenues from honest taxpayers and Hungarian families, the current government, like other countries, decided to introduce online cash registers because they create a fair market. In the legislative proposal before you, it is important to establish the basic rules for connecting automated equipment without handling staff to the tax authority, as this will ensure transparency in the future of the system of taxation of revenue from individual vending machines. [[23.30]] The bill also provides that automatic equipment operating at the time of the entry into force of the law must be notified to the State tax and customs authorities by 30 June 2019. Dear House, Overall, the draft legislation submitted by the portfolio contains forward-looking provisions on the whitening of the economy and the purchase of sovereign debt, and I therefore ask you to respectfully support the proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-19-262	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2019-03-19-263	Mr President, Dear House, So the tone of a financial debate is a little different around half past twelve at night. I have to say, when, during the day, the lingering demographic debate of more than 7 hours, the hatred of some of my pro-government fellow Members radiated into our direction, and the debate was of a very topical political nature, on the one hand, I received a compliment from the pro-government side that I am living with professional proposals and that my group is not likely to give any retortion for this. However, I drew attention there as a positive example to one or two pro-government Members, including the Minister of Finance, who can still be held in fair professional debates. In this hope, therefore, I wish to share my group's position on this proposal, where, by the way, I can deeply agree with fundamentals and fundamentals. For example, by taking on a necessary transformation of sovereign debt, which prioritises domestic movements. I don't understand why now. In 2010, this proposal would have been so beautiful, and it could have had so many positive benefits to date, but let us go beyond that, nine years have passed, and for some reason it must have come now. At the same time, what I would like to talk about more is the financial transaction fee and the changes that have been made to it, because this is not only an insult from the direction of some commercial banks to the Hungarian policy, but it is also a violation of the current government of Hungary's flow chart that has taken place here and of the interests of Hungarian customers. Let's see what happened here. The banking sector special tax was imposed by this government and, after several reductions, it essentially released this burden, which was partially passed on. However, the situation of the FTT was much simpler and more transparent. This has, in itself, been passed on to customers in full by the banks. There was a Hungarian small business operator who came to us as an entrepreneur, who faced this burden in such a way that, because of the transaction fee introduced in the middle of the year, he was there to justify the letter, that he would have to expect this extra charge to the bank until January, because the legislator imposed such a burden. So the transfer took place so clearly that the commercial banks concerned did not actually make a secret of it. The surprising turn of events followed, the legislator, who thought this through and the parliament, which carried it through, did nothing after that. So you let this net transfer take place. This was at the time when consumer protection began to leak under the supervision of the MNB. In the end, however, the transaction fee was passed on to all Hungarian customers, which would have been contrary to the intention of the legislator and, on the other hand, called for at least one consumer raid. In this way, I dispute at least the words of Levente Kovács, Secretary-General of the Hungarian Banking Association, I believe that they do not stand the test of the truth, that the banking sector pays a transaction fee of HUF 12-13 billion per year for the retail transfers. Technically, he may pay for something of this, but he collects this item to the last penny on Hungarian customers. Hungary wanted to change this untenable state correctly and supported by me on 1 January. The fact is that in terms of transactions below HUF 20,000, he called for a perfectly good, precise intervention, which made the necessary rules. But what happened next? In mid-January, I had to hold a press conference in front of one of the Austrian-owned banks about the fact that although the rules had changed on 1 January, it would not have been possible to deduct the transaction fee on customers for such items, so there was no change in the announcements of five major commercial banks, so the transfer of this was cancelled. These banks beat down on customers the face that Hungary had already closed to such and such a limit. So these relevant commercial banks dared to violate the will of the legislation, bypassed the consumer protection supervisory system, and could commit this net infringement. The consequences of this, Minister, are still to this day, and I am interested in what you see with regard to the consumer protection tool system, how you can intervene, because I cannot accept and reject what the Hungarian National Bank has said that there is nothing in his toolbox in this area. Financial consumer protection has been transferred here, and we can't talk about PSZEF for a long time, but if there is no owner of this area, then, Minister, present the proposal, I will be the first to vote for it by tearing the yes button out of its place. Just let something happen, because it is not possible for an area of this size to remain unorganized, especially in the context of a climate where the commercial banks concerned are recording record revenues, showing regional records, and doing so at the expense of Hungarian customers. I would like to add that what is in front of us in this package will be supported in terms of the transaction fee, even if, in this way, the complete abolition of the transaction would make more sense if it was paid by Hungarian citizens. If it is paid by commercial banks, then keep and regulate it differently, but this intermediate solution is at least odd to me. The HUF 800 allocation per year would otherwise be acceptable, but once again, I have to treat it as a partial solution. What I'm most interested in is what they're open to in terms of consumer protection. My expectations are two-way: either within the MNB, there are instruments which would otherwise be part of a parliamentary task, or we should listen to the advice of the MNB, and we should make the rules, we should give them the tools and weapons that can be struck at this time, and I would stress once again, to non-innocent operators, net infringers, to those who directly circumvent the clear rules of the legislation and have no legal consequences. Or, if that doesn't work, I'm even open to creating a top consumer protection body, Minister, no matter what we name it, if you submit it, I will support it, of course, under the right conditions and conditions, as far as your powers are concerned. But this disorderly situation, which exists at the moment, is simply an invitation to a very negative commercial bank practice that led, among other things, to the rise of the so-called currency loan, which, by the way, led to the Quaestor scandal, even though Jobbik had two dozen well-defined amendments, which could have prevented even the Quaestor scandal, but it did not pass the Economic Commission. We may all see that certain economic processes are cyclically repeated, not only by crises, but also by these financial abuse techniques they are always regenerating in different forms. I would like it to be ready before the next foreign exchange credit or Quaestor-type scandal, and there is a consumer protection tool system to prevent any money market abuse. Once again, with regard to sovereign debt, I can support the tax exemption in this form. Obviously, the test of pudding is eating, so practice will decide what further interventions are needed. I am very sorry that, not in 2010, but in 11 but now, obviously, what is right in the right direction, should not be supported because of various political reasons, so it must be supported. We are in the same way with the family protection programme, and we will support any good changes. I trust very much in a debate that is inclusive of fair, well-meaning opposition proposals, because it is the only thing that can move this area forward, this whole country, and ultimately we are here to represent the interests of Hungarian citizens, and this is a prerequisite. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-03-19-264	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2019-03-19-265	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, I would like to comment very briefly on the law. There are two very important issues ahead of us and how I should respond to my better fellow Member, who called for the 2010 introduction of sovereign debt interest: we all know and you may not dispute that we received a rather terrible economy in 2010, where the level of public debt was very high and that its structure was very vulnerable, and that debt was exposed, so that we would have paid that interest tax waiver almost exclusively into foreign hands then or would have been allowed to foreign sovereign owners. [[23.40]] Fortunately, since then we have seen a very important and very, very fortunate process. I think that this is what the government's proposal is trying to further strengthen so that the public's share of the sovereign debt market continues to grow. We can see that the public's share in the sovereign debt market has jumped from 5 percent in recent years to over 20 percent, so this share is already at about HUF 5900 billion. I think that there is obviously all kinds of sovereign debt involved in this, and the reason why this process is fortunate is that the bill before us is important, because after the interest paid and the interest paid, the tax not collected after the adoption of the bill will also remain with the Hungarian people, thus strengthening the Hungarian economy and strengthening domestic consumption. I think that this is certainly a healthier formula than when it comes to paying the IMF and foreign creditors. And last but not least, public debt will be much less vulnerable and the Hungarian economy will be much more stable. I wanted to say this on this subject, and to add that this amendment also applies to baby bonds, which we have seen a very important increase in recent years: in the last 4 months, citizens have bought such bonds for HUF 10 billion. I think it's a very good direction. The other issue is the whitening of the economy, which I think may have occurred to an unprecedented extent since the change of regime, thanks to certain measures and due to the strong, firm and consistent action of the government. We can think of cash registers, cash registers connected to the NAV, online invoicing or online connection of vending machines, data reporting, where we now see an expansion in the bill before us, as food vending machines are not the only ones that will be subject to the law. I think the KDNP fraction can welcome both goals. On the one hand, we also consider the increase in the share of the retail sovereign debt market and the measure to be taken and the transfer of additional money to the public's pockets, the transfer of additional money after its savings, and the whitening of the economy to be a goal that must be supported, followed and strengthened, so we also support this forward-looking proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-03-19-266	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2019-03-19-267	Thank you very much. Dear House, I had a faint hope that I would get out of this day without a ring, but Mr Hadházy made sure that it didn't go away. Thank you very much. So I would like to mention to you how much better the economic situation at the time has actually given the population and how much better conditions, but I would, of course, like to refer to this law and talk about it. In view of the progress of time, I would not repeat what has already been said, but rather the one area of this bill that is here, I would refer to or deal with it. And this is an amendment to the House Savings Bank Act. In the last six months, relatively simple means and shortcuts have been used to execute the opportunity that the population has had in this form. You have referred to it and today, in the debate of the law, it turns out that in the matter of housing savings banks, the possibility of using an existing very wide circle has now been transferred to a very narrow framework, and you are essentially using or using the aid that has been transferred among the wealthy, which I think gives you a reason to feel remorse. So now they're trying to favor the housing savings banks, which I understand in my own right, but let's just say that there's been a deal here that they're trying to help them in some way. This relates mutatis mutandis to what Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa said that the tax not collected also strengthens the Hungarian economy. Then in that respect, it would be good to have more of these areas found for you, and the uncollected tax you have referred to, I think, does not hold up in this form. So, in essence, I understand the intention of the law for all three purposes, in all three areas. I think it would have been better to talk more honestly about what is the real intention here rather than the follow-up actions. I'm very sorry that they can't even fix the housing savings fund case with a follow-up treatment. Unfortunately, they've ruined it the way it is. But it's not unusual for you. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-19-268	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Antal Csárdi, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2019-03-19-269	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Minister, Let me continue as my previous colleague Varju began, so that we do not go into repetitions in view of the late time. I would like to highlight one element of this bill, but this would be the NAV registration of automatic equipment. Because I think that this is an extremely joyful moment, that the Hungarian government has finally woken up and is implementing the legal conditions for this to happen. But the truth is that we don't owe thanks to the government, but primarily to the online media at 444.hu and to Dániel Ács, who showed him how to steal the money from parking in Budapest in different districts with extremely effective and hard work. I think it was the size of the exploding scandal that motivated the Ministry of Finance and/or the government to bring this decision to us today. 'Cause what are we looking at here anyway? What we see, fellow Members, is that a few weeks ago István Tarlós spoke in an interview about his desire to solve the problems of the parking mafia, but the Prime Minister told him, so Mr Orbán told him that this could not be done. István Tarlós said that his one request was not fulfilled by the Prime Minister. I asked the question fair and squarely last week in the form of an immediate question whether what István Tarlós said was true or if he wished to deny it. And, unfortunately, in accordance with practice, I did not get an answer to this question after several questions were asked. I'm treating this as a confession, and by the way, it's completely the same thing as a proposal to connect the parking machines to the online system for a week later. But I think it's worth seeing why this parking system stinks in the capital, and if we look at it, we'll see exactly how this decision alone doesn't solve this problem. This decision alone will not make any meaningful difference in terms of the power of the parking mafia, its ability to generate revenue. We also asked the Ministry of Finance and the Minister that the ticket issued by the parking machine could be considered an accounting document. After long thinking, and after 11 times the National Tax and Customs Office did not answer this question to the journalist, we received the reply from the Ministry of Finance that it was not an accounting document, since the operation of this vending machine does not make this compulsory. [[23.50]] Which means that although technically every option would have been to solve this problem, you considered the online connection of the 50 HUF coffee machine to the NAV to be more important than the online connection of the parking machines that helped control the multibillion-dollar parking business. Of course, it can be said, Minister, that this is the past, because the proposal is here, and the Ministry of Finance is committed to resolving this issue. But I have some bad news, Mr. Minister of Finance, remember that the law on Hungarian municipalities, if I remember correctly, and I am not entirely sure about that, Antal Rogán's amendment said that only a company with 100% ownership of the municipality or the municipality can carry out the parking operation as a mandatory municipal task. Anyone who knows this system knows exactly how your political community has played out the amendment of your municipal law. Because what we have seen and who has been watching this story knows is that they have bypassed their own law by re-employing, as subcontractors, actors who, by the way, have already made an enormous amount of money from the abuse of parking operations before 2010. Yes, honourable members of the government, I think that this is what we are talking about, that you have no intention of solving this problem, because if you had a minimal intention to stop the activities of the parking mafia, don't give it to me, God, to stop them from operating, this could actually happen with a feather stroke. On the one hand, this could be facilitated by regulating the involvement of subcontractors, and on the other hand, I think that it would also be a major step forward in this matter if Parliament decided to amend the Hungarian municipal law by taking away the parking operation of the district's mandatory municipal tasks and giving it to the capital's mandatory tasks, thereby creating a more centralised, cheaper and more transparent system, and, on the other hand, I think that it would also be a technique if we wanted to share the revenues generated by parking operations between the districts to be distributed between the districts later. My position is very strong: this decision, although necessary, but very, very few, forgive me for saying this, is meaningless, because the forms of abuse that we already see precisely in our techniques are not hindered, and as long as there is no meaningful progress in this, then NAV registration here, NAV registration there, the parking mafia thanks you very much, lives and thrives in Budapest. My question is a very simple, short question of apologies, two: you are right, I ask the Minister of Finance, that Viktor Orbán said no to István Tarlós to eliminate the abuse of parking. And my other question is that you want to take action to avoid stealing billions of forints in districts, thus diverting resources from municipal tasks such as investment, any mandatory or voluntary cultural or other tasks. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2019-03-19-270	Thank you, Congressman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. A two-minute comment is possible. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpat.
u2019-03-19-271	Mr President, Dear House, I would just like to ask Mr Minister one question after the main speakerial round: what will happen instead of the housing savings banks, because in today's debate I am talking about the multi-hour debate, that a lot of people, for example, have gathered together a part of the CSOK by using state legs and support for housing savings. This amendment does not guarantee at all that we can make up for this social goal in any way. And turning to my fellow Member, Nacsa, I am pleased that he has mentioned the baby bond, I think it is a very important construction, but I would like to draw his attention to how this could be made even more effective. Some level of broadband system should be introduced in all of this, since if you observe the fixed amount of State aid, you see that as the savings accumulate within this scheme, the State aid added in the first year represents an interest rate of around 10 per cent, and then in the 10th year it will fall below 1 per cent if I look at only the level of the aid, and in the last year it will barely exceed half a percentage. So, at least in terms of the last years, a lot of people are going to go through this calculation, or they're going to take it off the web, and they're going to find that certain market schemes are much more advantageous, but this could trigger even a stalling tactic, which would result in this not being concentrated here, or it's going to flow into other directions, or it's going to go into a market construction. So, if you want to concentrate more capital and pull more capital in here and give more benefits to the families concerned, which would be the aim of the whole, then it would be worth paying attention to at least a very negative level of interest in the last years compared to market conditions, which would allow us to benefit a lot more families, which is our basic interest in demographic terms. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-19-272	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi in two minutes.
u2019-03-19-273	Thank you very much for the floor. I must be honest with you that I was naively expecting my fellow Member Hadházy or my fellow Member Nacsa, or perhaps Minister for Finance, to respond to the question asked. [[Mihály Varga: I will at the end!]] And not in the closet. We know this technique. You can't respond to the closing word, you've used this technique for the previous presentation, and I can't even list it, because you'll react with it for all of them. There really is an exception to a proposal such as a family protection action plan, where they are involved in the debate. Of course, I understand that this is also in your interest, because you can use this for campaign purposes, and let's be honest, the matter of the parking mafia, the sentence that I am not saying, but István Tarlós, the mayor of Budapest, said, I think it is very difficult to use as a campaign, my fellow Member Hadházy. At the same time, you would have the opportunity, as they say in a very good way, if you had some blood to disprove Mr. Mayor, to say that István Tarlós is lying, and then we would ask István Tarlós, the mayor of Budapest, that you were really joking? It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. But I am clearly not getting an answer to my immediate question last week, nor to the same question in the speaker's speech. However, I think that every voter would have the right to know, and I think that if this happened, then the Minister of Finance sitting in our midst, representing the government, knows that he has made the statement by Viktor Orbán that he does not want to solve the problem of the parking mafia in the capital. Of course, I also understand that if you said hypothetically, but not allowing him not to want to solve it, the only question is why he doesn't want to solve it. You don't want to solve this because he's part of the deal? I'm gonna ask you a question. Or don't give me a god or a beneficiary? Or do you simply view this mafia as an embedded, almost historical party political interest for many ten years? I think that you have the right to ask every Hungarian voter for this. Thank you very much.
u2019-03-19-274	Thank you, Congressman. I will give the floor to Congressman Anita Potocskanyány Kőrösi in a normal time frame. [[0.00]]
u2019-03-19-275	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We could say that the clock is midnight, that today's plenary session is in 15 hours. Yes, we are all tired, but I think that the same legislation, which my fellow Members have already mentioned, this salad law provides for the amendment of certain laws on financial matters, the amendment of four important laws on which I would like to dissect one point, the amendment of the law on taxation. In this legislative amendment, the concept of automatic equipment is introduced in the Act on Rules of Taxation. It is the same or the same, and this would be my specific point of view, which we can also see in the General Sales Tax Act, only where it calls it an automatic equipment without handling staff, which is exempted from the obligation to provide receipts. Here, however, it says that the automatic equipment is a device capable of operating without a crew. So the two concepts are similar, but they are not the same. Here in the debate, I saw or found that they went to the point where, like online cash registers, these machines were connected through the electronic system. However, this concept does not say to me that they must have electronic, online access. Let's see what kind of automatic equipment there is that would otherwise not be able to do that. We collected these vending machines, such as the photo vending machines, where they hide behind a curtain, or even the vending machines selling rubber condoms and women's hygiene products, which are in outrooms, or the toy and candy vending machines, which are in front of the shops in that small sphere; these are mechanical appliances. That's the concept that Art defined here in the law. I believe that it will also apply to this. During the debate, I saw or felt that they would not do so, but then it is absolutely necessary to amend this concept. However, if they are to be covered, it would be necessary to consider the number of such automatic equipment which must be notified to the State Tax and Customs Authority by 1 June. That is what I would like to ask the Minister of Finance what kind of automatic equipment you have in mind. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-19-276	Thank you, Congresswoman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Minister for Finance Mihály Varga.
u2019-03-19-277	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for your valuable contributions, and thank you for basically not objecting to the spirit and direction of the bill. From this, I could even conclude that they will all support the adoption of the legislation. Of course, I would also like to answer some of the points. I think that even at this late hour it is worth discussing a few things. One of the points raised by our fellow Member Daniel Z. Carpathian, which I would like to summarize, is that we are too late for this regulation. Mr President, we have not been late with this regulation, as I mentioned in my introduction, in recent years we have eight times the amount of sovereign debt in the hands of the population, which means that we have significantly reduced the country's exposure to foreign creditors, and, on the other hand, we have significantly helped incomes, through the increase in wages, so that the Hungarian population also has savings. Remember, in the mid-2000s, this was not the case in 2008, the Hungarian population almost had no savings. Economic growth in recent years and a good, good economic policy have made it possible for the Hungarian population not only to participate in consumption through retail traffic but also to set aside and increase its savings. The HUF 6,000 billion, which represents the sovereign debt stock in the public's hands, shows that we are not too late with this, we came up with this proposal just in time. With regard to transaction duty and banking tax regulation, I would remind the Member that in February 2015 we concluded an agreement with the Hungarian financial institution system, signed by one of the commercial banks and representatives of the EBRD, signed by Prime Minister, in which we undertook to phase out and lead these special taxes, as regards the financial institution system. These steps have been taken in recent years, and the rate of the bank tax has been significantly reduced, helping banks to account for lower costs to the public or companies in the future. I therefore believe that there is progress here too, and that this will be further guided in this direction by the bill that has been tabled. I would like to say to Congressman László Varju and to Dániel Z. Kárpát, in connection with the housing savings bank, that no one has completed, lives and thrives on the housing savings banks; quite simply, the Parliament has accepted the end of the situation which I believe was unduly supportive of the functioning of the housing savings banks from taxpayers' paid forints in Europe. Here, I would like to remind you that, say, in Austria or Germany, this aid reaches a maximum of a few percent, i.e. 3-4 percent, while in Hungary 30 percent of the state aid contributed to this. This might not have been so bad, but it was the use of the money for a purpose that did not support the family home creation program that the government had started in the meantime. So here the money is not lost, the housing savings banks remain in place, they can continue to collect deposits for purposes that can facilitate the renovation or purchase of apartments, and besides that, if the bill is passed by my fellow Members, it will be possible for them to appear in other areas, including in the area of the distribution of sovereign debt. To Mr Csárdi: I was not at the meeting of Mayor Tarlós and Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, so ask them exactly what was said, and as a Member you have the opportunity to take this opportunity. What I would like to say, however, isn't the first time, and I'm afraid not the last time, it's the parking licence obligation. We have already said this to Mr President, but I will repeat it now that the VAT Act exempts the taxable person from the obligation to lodge a receipt for the supply of goods by automated equipment without handling staff. This is a rule of more than 15 years, according to which if a parking machine operates without a crew, there is no need to issue a receipt for the parking service. The certificate issued by the parking machines cannot be considered a receipt because of the above rule. We've already told you that in an immediate question, but I have to repeat it this way. So I think that the regulation on this issue is clear and clear, and what you should say to you right now, honourable Member, is that hurrah, the government is finally launching an amendment which, like online cash registers, can carry out an instant data traffic between the tax office and the parking machines, so the parking mafia is over, if there is such a mafia, the period when we do not know exactly what is happening to the parking machines. This situation is about to change. You can celebrate. I would very much ask you to support the bill in the final vote, because it will also support the fact that it will help to put an end to the situation that you are debating. Finally, I would like to say briefly to Mrs Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi that the regulation is not specific to a parking machine, this applies to all vending machines, regardless of which product it sells or what service it provides. The bill is a financial amendment, and the amendment concerning vending machines is a tax bill, which applies. The aim of this is obviously to improve tax discipline, to increase the efficiency of tax controls and thus to whiten the economy, and not to transform the parking system for its own sake. I think, as the representatives of Hadházy and Nacsa pointed out in their comments, that a process has been taking place here in recent years, starting with the launch of online cash registers, continuing with the establishment of an electronic traffic control system, we started to introduce online invoices last summer. [[0.10]] I would like to inform my fellow Members that 35 million invoices have been issued that have allowed a refund of VAT over HUF 100,000. So I think this system is working. And so we have to move on as long as there are areas that are unregulated. Thus, I can safely say that the construction of automated equipment without handling staff and even the online register will continue. It is often said in Parliament that there is such an online connection at gambling venues and casinos, for example, which will happen. Parking machines are coming up now, and car washes are gonna be the same. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for being so active and interested in this debate at the late hour. I ask you all to support the bill in the final vote of Parliament. Thank you for your opportunity to speak, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-03-19-278	Thank you, Minister of Finance. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agendas. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Dániel Z. Kárpát was the first person to apply for a post-meeting speech. It's an address. You have the floor.
u2019-03-19-279	Mr President, Dear House, Today, the House has had a debate over seven hours of demographic debate. However, where there was an uncoverable fault between government and opposition, the issue of emigration was raised. What we see is that the government denies the existence of the problem in a typical way, and if it admits that there is an emigration spiral involving hundreds of thousands of people, it will try to adjust, by referring to the statistics of the countries in the region, that less active workers leave Hungary than from other countries. It is also typical of the Chamber, where there is essentially no pro-government representative left, while Jobbik began to talk about demographic issues. And the amazing situation is that, although hundreds of thousands of people have left, they are trying to make this a kind of a system symptom, as if it were a completely natural and acceptable situation, that hundreds of thousands of young people leave Hungary, twice or three times as many as after the 1956 Revolution and War of Independence. Therefore, when hungarianok.hu did a survey together with infographics, and specifically asked the Hungarian young people what the reason for leaving was, not surprising results at all, but we could find very surprising and very talkative statistics in all of this web research. For example, when it was found that the reason for leaving was typically the low wage levels and the problems in the housing segment. But what tax burden does a couple with two children have to face in Hungary for example? In percentage terms, this is 14.5 percent, even above the OECD average. But we can also find a little bit northerly 7.8 percent, and in the Czech Republic we find a very small figure that is almost tax-absorbed. What is also a leap in terms of single-person households and some of the mosaic families are also included in the tax burden on the basis of notifications, which is 33.5 percent in Hungary, while the OECD average is barely above 25 per cent, and we typically find data between 20 and 25 per cent, even in England. In parallel, we have to say that the average rent for an average rent in Budapest is HUF 150,000 without rent, which takes 70 percent of a young person's average salary so that average earnings do not mean that most young people earn this much, since hundreds of thousands of people remain, typically 70 percent remain below the average in a crowd if we look at a statistical average. And of this remaining money, which is left with the people after the deduction of the housing costs, Hungarian young people, must spend tens of thousands of forints on food in a lower voice, and at that time he has not bought clothes, he has not fixed his car, and he has not put aside at least 50 thousand forints in a month, of which he can bring together at least the self-strength after decades or very long years to take on an apartment loan. We have a very interesting examination of two professions. One is the teacher of kindergarten, which provides a net earnings of 129 thousand forints in the first three years after graduation, and this amount is true in both Budapest and the countryside. The other example was the case of a veterinarian who spent five and a half years in university training, and his basic rent would then be HUF 158 thousand net. And if you compare it to the wages in the same professions in Germany, you can see that this kindergarten teacher is able to earn almost 600 thousand forints, 599 thousand forints to be exact, and one veterinarian is equal to 1 million 166 thousand forints. So it's clear that the gap is brutal. What follows from the difficulties in paying and housing is an amazing distortion in Hungary's living conditions according to the KSH statistics, as the number of our remaining citizens left behind with parents has been increasing since 1990: while 459 thousand young adults lived with their parents between 20 and 40 in 1990, their number has doubled to 819 thousand by 2001, and now we can count on around 883,000 figures, which clearly extends not only the time of the founding of their own family, but also the time of having children. In the light of all these statistics, therefore, we find answers to a lot of factors, and there are a lot of questions that the government's family protection package does not address. We draw attention to this from the opposition, Jobbik, and not only expect, we expect, but we demand a meaningful government reaction to the Hungarian future, so that the demographic winter can finally end and Hungarians can turn to growth. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-19-280	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Ander Balázs asked for a next speech on the agenda with the title "Sombiapocalypse." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-03-19-281	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Drug users often develop aggressive zombie design drugs in euphemistically called segregation ghettos. A conference was held on this subject on 9 March organized by the Jesuit Roma College and the Budapest Reformed Gypsy College. The patron of the event, János Székely, said with an incredibly tragic tone about the current situation, that we are actually in the twenty-fourth hour, perhaps even beyond, and indeed a second Trianon is threatening if the Hungarian state does not take this threat seriously. When we talk about this sort of thing, so we say that the Hungarian state has given up certain areas of the country, we are talking about the creation of no-go zones in some areas in the domestic way, then we often get the accusation that we speak in such an extreme way. Well, now a bishop of the county has actually done this for us, and he has pointed out the tragedy of the terrible threat to the country's future in this form. The fact is that it was all a tragic color, topicality, given by the shocking, horrifying murder in Szekszárd one day earlier, where a psychopath of himself killed his niece, who could have been anything else, but was born in such circumstances that 15 people were crippled in three rooms in a settlement on the outskirts of the city. And here comes the questions of how this man, this psychopathic animal, could be released, and why, after this cruel murder, if he shows good conduct, in tens of years, he could be released to society again. There have been cases like this before. Mothers who are pregnant in Turkish-Szentmiklós, but I would rather say creatures instead, who don't know the Szentenia of István Forgács by reputation that they are born into poverty at a young age, without school, that's not a cultural right and virtue, and they didn't even hear that Attila Lakatos said that the child was responsible, not an animal, so they turned to such designer drugs, they almost died, and they caused their unborn children permanent damage. [[0.20]] The problem is that, according to surveys, one third of those addicted to this kind of drug get to know these toxins before the age of 14, half of them get used to them until the age of 16, and very quickly cause these people to suffer an incredibly drastic breakdown, actually becoming mentally retarded wrecks. The segregations grow into ghetto villages as they stand, and sooner or later these ghetto villages come together, and real walking areas disappear in the vortex of the wreckage social collapse in Hungary. And if we add this to the fact that the population explosion, which can be observed in these places, coupled with total social disintegration, is a trigger in which the detonator's role is actually played by designer drugs, then there really is a terrifying future for this country if the current government is not properly prepared to deal with it. But we can also say that this will be, the appearance of designer drugs will be the last nail in certain places in the coffin of integration. In fact, it's not an addictive problem or a police problem, although obviously I'm not the man who's gonna be screaming for a lawyer when I do that, members of the TEK or the Alert Police are slamming drug dealers who are poisoning entire communities with these poisons. So, I'm not the one who's gonna be the one crying out for lawyers in this case. However, it must also be recognised that this is rather a symptom of a set of social problems that should be dealt with by school and by the proper operation of the social services network. But as long as we see that social professionals and educators who can catch this whole tragedy and unbelievable danger in due time, how deeply they are paid, how often they are burned out, how useless they are, then we have to see that the problem is really dangerous. It would be very good for the government to recognize this and act effectively, because our future, the future of this country, is at stake. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-19-282	Thank you, Congressman. Mr László György Lukács applied for a final statement after the last agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-03-19-283	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to thank the workers and fellow Members of this House for saying, on this Tuesday's meeting, now on Wednesday, after sitting at 14-15 o'clock, that there are still things that have not been said and that are important to be said in this House. Thank you for your patience for waiting and listening. Today's topic is really important because every month, although the issue of hospital debts and the money charged to the hospital and health system is current, today it is clear again that the debt of Hungarian hospitals has increased at an accelerated rate, not only in recent months, but also in the past few months. While in the previous months, the amount that hospitals owe to suppliers after transporting assets and any other materials increased by HUF 2-3 billion per month, this month increased by HUF 5.2 billion. It's a February data, it's always published with a month delay. Again, this indicates that we have been thinking for 20 years about the problem of financing health care. Many may ask why it is important to deal with hospital debt in health care. Because the Hungarian care system, the large health care system, provides almost 70 percent of the care provided by hospitals. Many people say that it is a difficult system. Everyone ends up mostly in hospitals, most of which are provided by hospitals, from diagnostics to therapy. Therefore, if this is the system where the actors are most indebted to, it may be the greatest threat. The reason for this is that, on the one hand, the government has not changed funding in a very long time. There is a long-term fossilised funding system, which clearly shows that the money they give is not enough for the care that hospitals, on the one hand, and patients, on the other hand, require. So everyone is running after their money, especially the hospital managers due to the trick of the exception, who start to accumulate these debts either for objective or subjective reasons. Our country's leading debt fundraiser is the Honvéd Hospital, but county hospitals are also at the forefront. Many hospitals have bigger debts than the entire annual budget of a larger city, which sounds dangerous. But what it does, for most of the people themselves are not familiar with hospital accounts and hospital bills, nor can they see what they see. This level of quality, the quality of medicine is reduced, if you like, the user experience in modern terms is extremely easy to degrade. And it also degrades a lot, in the often-disrupting ceiling, in the inefficient devices, in very often frustrated, tired and worked to death, in alternating workers with little free time, and in the very bad indicators that health care produces. It is also quite clear that this needs to be improved somehow. It is raised year after year, and for the Ministry of Finance, not only by the opposition, but also by the profession, the intention is to increase this funding at what level, since it is necessary not only to prevent an increase in debt, but also to improve standards in some way, and this cannot be continued without money. If Bubby Gunner's metaphor or saying stands in football, then we can live with this analogy in health care. Little money will lead to a little health care. If you spend the money fairly, you will certainly be able to achieve a very spectacular increase in the quality of the healthcare system to a certain level. Ladies and gentlemen, This isn't the first time we've had this problem. Since 2010 and several times before that, the accumulated debt, the deficit that has arisen, has been replaced. There has been a 60 billion-dollar adjustment, a 30 billion-dollar adjustment, and we can even tell you that between 2010-12, a 200 billion-dollar hole was tried to be plugged. Now we're back to the fact that this is growing again and again. And most importantly, and for which this should be prevented, and debt recycling should be eliminated: on the one hand, we owe it to workers to ensure a decent working environment, where they are well paid, and we owe it to patients to be able to heal safely, to heal in an atmosphere of trust. That is why the issue of managing hospital debts is important, and it is therefore important, honourable Members, that we give the money due to health care. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-03-19-284	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. We will resume the meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed.
