u2019-11-19-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 10th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and György László Lukács will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, We will begin our work with speeches before the agenda. Speaking before the agenda, Mr Lajos Korózs, MSZP Group has applied with the title "Every child counts." Congressman, you have the floor.
u2019-11-19-1	Thank you very much. Good morning, everyone. My fellow Members, some 30 years ago, the UN adopted a document, and the Member States signed a convention, according to which 20 November is the World Children's Rights Day. There are a lot of civil society organisations preparing for this event, some have a conference, some have a series of programmes. I would like to draw attention to the situation of children's rights in Hungary, which is why I would like to refer to the report of the Civil Society Organisation for Children and, in addition to presenting some statistics, I would like to draw up an individual opinion in this area. It appeared that after the economic crisis, child poverty in Hungary decreased until around 2014 and up to 15 years, but this civilian report shows that unfortunately, the number of children living in extreme poverty has been steadily increasing since 2014. This report has taken into account some aspects: for example, living people with great difficulties, housing conditions and hunger. This shows that there are about 125,000 children living in Hungary today in extreme poverty, and with great difficulties about 18.5 percent of children, this is in the order of 100,000, and if you look at this statistical data, you can see that this is double the EU average. Unfortunately, the number of children living in very poor housing conditions increased, as nearly 20 percent in 2014 were children living in very poor housing conditions, and now the report states that more than 27 percent of children live in poor housing conditions. It is interesting to take into account the civilian report on child hunger. This shows that 15 percent of Roma children starve daily, and 7 percent of non-Roma children are among the hungry. It seems that the structures in the crisis zone have been frozen. Unfortunately, there is no increase in employment in crisis zones, and after the transformation of the social care system, access to services has been frozen, and even because a significant part of the cash benefits has been frozen, it has not been indexed, and from now on in recent years they have lost quite a lot of their value, since inflation is eating these amounts. It is also apparent that child poverty in these crisis zones has unfortunately increased from 43% in 2014 to 53 percent. Dear fellow Members, Since I mentioned the UN Convention, which was adopted 30 years ago, I must bring to you the UN report that was published recently. This report shows that nine out of ten children do not enjoy learning. In this report, two out of ten children have no free time at all, and five out of ten children are dissatisfied with their family time. I must point out that this is also in the UN report that these children are thinking very adult, because 44 percent are afraid that as adults they will not find work I think this is a very thorough forecast for politics, 40 percent are afraid of climate change, and 38 percent of them are afraid of war in Hungary. I'm not saying that these kids may suspect something, but their fears have a lot of things in them that we don't care about. I need to say a few sentences about the foster family network. It is well known that they were allowed to perform guardianship tasks before 2014; since 2014 the state has been the guardian of guardianship. Please, it shows that some 20, often 50 children are provided by an Apparatian person, and the foster parents assume that they too are in foster care, because they cannot sign in kindergarten, after school, after children, they cannot attend a parent-teacher conference, they are practically taken into custody by the state. Well, that's where we are now. Thank you very much for your attention, and I look forward to Mr. Secretary of State's reflection.
u2019-11-19-2	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-11-19-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Members, Dear House, Indeed, it is important to put the child in the center every day. We have often said that the child is our first, and therefore our actions are always child-centred and always family-centred. I think that if you look around the world at the politics and measures of the Hungarian government, there are few countries where so much attention is paid to families and children, as you know that there is not a very developed country where family support is so high in proportion to the total national product, over 4.5 percent. So it also shows that the government, which has a surplus resource, is using it precisely for children and families. However, it is typical of the opposition that, when the impact of these government measures is tangible, not only in the everyday lives of families, but also in all Eurostat, OECD and ISH statements, it suddenly forgets these international statements, and rather looks for a civil society organisation that says that the situation is deteriorating, although I add, we are talking here about amounts that we did not spend 1,000 billion on support for families at your time, and now we have adopted 2228 billion in the next budget, who say that the situation is worsening despite the two-and-half of the amounts; they now find a civil society organisation that is often clearly in a clear political context, and they refer to them. You are doing this because, if you look at Eurostat's statement, you have certainly looked at it, which is why you did not talk about it, while in 2010 the proportion of people under the age of 18 who were at risk in relation to any form of poverty or at risk in relation to any form of social exclusion was 38,7 percent according to Eurostat, and now 23,8 percent. So much more than a third of those under the age of 18 who may encounter any form of poverty are not necessarily in this situation, but are at risk. If you look at households with children, you can see that while a third of households with children were previously affected by the risk of poverty or social exclusion, now only one fifth of them have fallen from one third to one fifth, as reported by Eurostat. One of the greatest risks of poverty has been reduced in single-parent households, but also in households with three or more children, i.e. large-family households, in the last year of your governance, in 2010, every second family with large families, i.e. families with three or more children, have been at risk of poverty, now less than a quarter. So the proportion of these families is halved. That's exactly why you don't talk about these issues. [[9.10]] Honourable Congressman, You were talking about it, and earlier, when socialist politicians marched in their pockets with hundreds of millions of bank statements in the hunger procession, they used to say the expression "child hunger" a lot, honourable Member. You are well aware that you are destined for full social meals, child meals, HUF 32 billion, while we have accepted more than HUF 82 billion in the budget for next year, honourable Member, precisely so that all children, in kindergartens, kindergartens, primary schools, secondary schools, for whom the family has a more specific problem of paying the cost of eating children, if any, will be taken over by the state instead. That is why there are already 600,000 children who eat for free or at a discount. You could have done the same thing. You could have extended social meals to fall, winter and spring break. They didn't. You could have raised these items radically. They didn't, Your Honour. However, we have launched this programme, and we have also removed the burden of purchasing textbooks from the shoulders of parents and families, so that this is not a cost for parents with children, but it is now on the state for all Hungarian families from the next school year, honourable Member. For the government, therefore, children and families remain the first. Thank God, children and families are no longer to be afraid of today, as in your time, that they will not be able to continue to learn because of tuition, that their parents will not take them to the doctor because of the visitation fee, but that now there is much more opportunity for children, and that every child who needs public help can expect more help in terms of both catering and textbook care than he expected in your time. This is also reflected in the fact that, through families, no developed country spends as much on children as Hungary does on national product-related terms. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-19-4	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Burány applied for a pre-meeting speech with the title of the Dialogue Group on Current Affairs. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-19-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, To live and let live is a centuries-old principle of this world. Unfortunately, the application of this principle in Hungary is being lost. Unfortunately. For a few days, it seemed that the application of this principle could return. As is known, the opposition won most of the largest and most advanced cities in the country in the municipal elections. For a few days, Fidesz and the government seemed to understand, understand, and learn. He understands and learns, and he realizes that there is no point in the constant struggle, the drying out of opposition governments, the politics of muscle. It looks like for a few days at least that in Hungary there could be another age in which political parties view each other not as enemies, not as enemies of government and state, but as partners, where the parties are looking for ways to balance ideas, how to find an optimism that is good for the state, good for the municipalities, ultimately good for the whole country. Unfortunately, this state of grace lasted only a few days, and it seems that Viktor Orbán and Fidesz will return to the worst traditions of his administration and politicalisation: he will break away from his principle of living and letting him live, return to the politics of muscle, and there he will shorten the possibilities of local governments, punish the majority of the cities with opposition leadership wherever he can. It's not right, it's more than tragic. Some recent developments. It is not enough that the government and Fidesz have taken hospitals away from the cities and we see that hospitals are in a worse situation, that health is in a worse state than ever; it is not enough that Fidesz has taken away schools from the municipalities and that we see that in education we have more difficulties than ever; Fidesz has decided to further shorten opportunities and has now made it possible to limit the use of business tax. It tells us what to spend in the future on a source of free use of local government, further shortening the potential of municipalities and majority of municipalities with opposition leadership in large cities. So far, these cities have decided what to build in their territory and where to build. Now it seems that this is also the government's decision to make, because from now on, not the cities, the local elected bodies will tell us where and what is to be built in their city, but the government directly through the offices. And even though you want, say, a city to solve the strangling traffic difficulties, to build another bridge, if the government's favorite nun is sports, then you're not building a bridge, you're building a handball hall. Viktor Orbán and his government want to tell us everything. This isn't gonna end well. It will not end well from the country's point of view in the first place, but unfortunately it will not end well in any other way. The more Fidesz believes that it must be politicalized from muscle, the more the Fidesz thinks that it should not negotiate, but fight, the more the Fidesz thinks that it should not seek compromises, but continuous victory, well, I have to tell you, the worse it will end. Do not wait, return to common sense policy, compromise policy, live and let live. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-11-19-6	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-11-19-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I would also like to record here for the many of us in this debate that the governing parties have received the most votes in the 13 October elections, most mayors are given by the governing parties, despite your attempts to challenge it. The government's policy remains the same: it provides support to all cities, and it is up to the city leaders to take advantage of this opportunity from now on. It is a very important circumstance in Budapest, for example, that district leaders hand over the baton with a significant financial surplus, with a surplus of exactly HUF 93 billion; this is a completely different practice compared to what they had previously experienced by the left-wing district leaders. The thing is, listening to you, I see that they continue the worst tradition of Gábor Demszky. [[Defiance in the dialogue.]] By starting to back out of their promises, and you can already see that they're trying to push the burden on the government. As far as health is concerned, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the current government provides 724 billion forints more for health than you do in your last government year. As far as business tax is concerned, you're trying to mislead the public. So far, it has been an obligation for municipalities to finance public transport. In the case of the capital, the situation is different in that the government provides significant additional support for Community transport and will continue to grant this additional aid in the future. [[9.20]] However, you do not expect us to see that while you are asking for the money for community transport, there is a suspicion that you will spend it on something other than that in the case of Gábor Demszky. And if anyone wants to know what their politics is all about, it's worth looking at the last few days: you can see that Gergely Christmas is taking the Bajnai strategy and trying to say that she wasn't there, that she wasn't responsible for anything. For example, when asked about Csaba Czeglédy's contracts, he said that he was sorry, but who a district mayor is signing with and with whom he is not, how does that affect me? It's absurd in itself. That's all you have to say, Csaba Czeglédy, who is a convicted felon, convicted of tax crimes. It is indeed similar to what Gordon Bajnai presented, for example, in the Hajdú-Bet case. And you don't mind that Tibor Draskovics is also a member of the City Hall because you're suggesting that he has professional skills and skills. Well, professional knowledge, I beg you. Under the Finance Ministership of Tibor Draskovics, Hungary had the second largest government deficit in the world. That's what Gergely Christmas says, it's totally acceptable. He said it was totally acceptable. Csaba Czeglédy's morale is absolutely acceptable and the professionalism of Tibor Draskovics. We don't have any more questions. Well, I do. It would be good for you to decide, for example, what is your position on the new super hospital in Buda, when it comes to health care. We know that the new lefty mayor is trying to nail it down. We look forward to your position. Do you want this super hospital in Buda or don't you want it? It's a hundreds of billion-dollar development. We can't see clearly in the case of the banning of diesels; Gergely Christmas said last week that she had tried to twist her words. There is nothing to twist in his words, because he made it clear: last time he told Blikk that Hungarians should not buy older diesel cars, because sooner or later the city has no choice but to ban them from the city in relation to certain parts of the city. He's kicking her out of town. Then the reporter, honourable Member, asked whether it was possible that in 2024 an older diesel car could no longer enter downtown, and the mayor said that it could be easy. And it's not the only resolution, it's not just one sentence. Deputy Mayor Dávid Doros also said that there is something to be done about the presence of diesel cars in downtown, which is on the agenda, and we need to talk about it. Well, then, honourable Member, speak, make it clear what your plans are. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Let the public know them, let the Members know them, and more importantly, let all the Hungarian citizens concerned know them! Otherwise, not only the people of Budapest, but also the rural ones, because when they come to Budapest, they would also be affected by such restrictions. Looking at the whole picture, we feel like you're showing the remodeled version of the SZDSZ movie. They promised us a steal-stop from before, but Csaba Czeglédy will be a hospital stop, a museum stop and a diesel stop, and, above all, a salary increase for himself. They refer to the future, but they bring back past practices and past figures. This doesn't promise Budapest much good. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-19-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Arató, Member of the Democratic Coalition, asked to speak before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-19-9	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, At the initiative of the Teachers' Union, we have been holding the day of Hungarian public education on Friday on 22 November 1991, and I do not say that we are celebrating it because the country remembers the work of teachers, not at this time, but on the day of teachers, on the first Sunday of June. This commemorative day is primarily about the problems of public education, primarily about the problems that need to be solved before public education. Today, it is a cliché that esteemed, well-paid, well-prepared and autonomous teachers are the basis for successful and effective public education. Unfortunately, however, recent years have shown that the opposite is true. As a result of an education policy that immediately began to allow these wages to sink after a truly noticeable wage increase, despite promises, it does not guarantee the value of teachers' wages, a policy that overworks teachers with a lot of unnecessary overwork, the policy that took away the autonomy of teachers, which is clearly visible in the results of public education, also causes very serious damage there. When we talk about good public education, when we talk about how the government appreciates teachers, we talk about it in the first place, and we talk about it because we talk about our own children, our grandchildren, their fates and their chances and the future of the country. What is most stressful about public education today is shown by the five-point claim package of the Teachers' Union and the strike demand package of the Democratic Union of Teachers. What are the most important elements in this? On the one hand, the wage issue. I told you before about the career model, you promised that your career would be based on the minimum wage at all times. This promise was broken after a year, and now teachers receive 50 percent less as wages than they should receive on the basis of that promise. That's what they took out of every teacher's pocket, that's what you owe the teachers. This should be replaced immediately, with an immediate increase of at least 30 per cent on the basis of the needs of trade unions, and a career model adapted to the minimum wage should be restored. Another very important area is the need to reduce the workload of teachers. You raised the mandatory hours, sewed a lot of unpaid overtime around your neck, and sewed a lot of unnecessary administrative burdens on your neck. If we want teachers to have time to deal with children and care, we need to reduce these unnecessary burdens. The third is a very important area, and it is that they are finally completing the inventive legislation, and that they are constantly changing the legislation on public education and vocational training. Stop bringing these proposals to Parliament without consulting the representatives of the profession and stakeholders. Let me mention the latter three examples, which are just before the National Assembly today. One is the amendment of the VET Act, where you will abolish the protection of public workers in vocational training, referring to the fact that they will make a more effective individual wage deal. You know I almost said something nasty, so that's an untrue statement to put it mildly. Secondly, although they were betting in the summer, they vowed that alternative schools would not be adversely affected by the legislative amendment, they now slylyly smuggled an amendment into the legislation of vocational training that makes it virtually impossible for alternative schools to operate. Thirdly, István Hollik's proposal, which, instead of restoring the 18-year-old school commitment that civil society organisations, the profession and the opposition demand in a uniform manner, instead of turning the blame on parents, is absolutely absurdly saying that the parent will solve the child's schooling, while the schools are not obliged to provide for these children. How you manage public education and public education also shows that if a trade union has tried to negotiate gently, its demands have not been taken into account if it has initiated legal strike negotiations, they have not taken into account that they are not willing to speak to the representatives of the profession in any way. Dear Secretary of State, I know you're going to give a long historical lecture so you don't have to talk about the important issues. But please answer: when will there be a wage increase, when will there be a reduction in the workload? And when will meaningful consultation be restored in education?
u2019-11-19-10	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2019-11-19-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Every sitting day, I think it is appropriate to thank teachers for the work they do: every day, week after week, they not only teach, teach, but also raise children. What Hungary of the future will be, for the most part, beyond the families, it will be decided in schools exactly what knowledge, what skills, what knowledge they will receive, which is why they will be recognized for their work. I think we can all remember one of our teachers from elementary school, high school, who defined what kind of people we've become. At the same time, honourable Member, in order to satisfy your need for a history lesson, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you did not start your political career in 2010, you were the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Education, and, indeed, you were up to your neck in the measures that you had taken in the years before 2010. You're telling me that we need an immediate wage increase for teachers. [[9.30]] When you were on the government, honourable Member, you may have been a secretary of state at the same time, I think, when a month's wages were taken from all Hungarian teachers. They've been denied a month's wages. You are the only government in Hungary whose name is subject to a teacher's wage reduction. You were the Secretary of State of that government, the only Hungarian government after the change of regime, which, let alone did not increase, but reduced the wages of teachers. With this, you and the government of which you were Secretary of State set a negative record in Hungary. You may now speak up here and demand an immediate increase in wages you have obviously noticed that in recent years the government has made a 50 percent increase in wages, you can stand up, only you stand up and demand an increase in teachers' wages that you were the secretary of state of the only government that has reduced the wages of teachers in Hungary. Neither before you nor after you there was any such government; let alone the nominal value of the buyer and the rest, but you reduced the amount that a teacher received a year by a month. You stand up and say that you need to reduce the workload of teachers. Only, when you were a secretary of state, honourable Member, 15,000 teachers were dismissed. The number of children has not changed, there were the same number of children in schools and classes, only the number of teachers was reduced by 15,000. If there's the same child, but there's 15,000 fewer teachers, is the job burden going up or down? You were the government that actually increased the workload of teachers, because the education of the same number of children was entrusted to 15,000 fewer teachers. You therefore demand a wage increase by reducing wages and reducing the workload by increasing the workload for teachers. So if there is something to protect the Hungarian teachers from, it is to get you back in the direction of Hungarian education, because you encouraged the 18-year-olds to choose the teaching course to introduce the tuition fee so that anyone who wants to be a teacher would pay the state to become a teacher. This is your business approach, which has appeared everywhere: the textbook publisher has been privatized, the teacher training has been paid. Was that supposed to be the wide open gate? Was that the basis for high-quality education? This would have been the opening up of higher education to all, to young people from the poorer ranks, from difficult circumstances, that they would pay tuition fees if they wanted to be teachers or teachers, and to teach and raise children at school if they could at all keep their jobs, honourable Member? You say that the institutional system of dialogue within public education should be established. Honourable Congressman, You know as well as I do, whether you could have read it from the law, from the news or from the daily practice, we created this. His name was the round table for public education in the last two years, and his name has been the strategic round table for public education ever since. We invite all actors, not only trade unions, but also student organisations, parents' organisations, various maintainers, organisations of artistic and scientific training, we meet and discuss all the legislative proposals, all the directions in this legal forum. It is no longer our fault that the people you refer to here in Parliament will not come. However, honourable Member, it does not matter that the dialogue is not held because our invitation is not accepted by someone in the Ministry or because they are not invited. There is your attitude, János Kóka, that we do not ask the frogs before draining the swamp, that is what the minister of your government said about social dialogue, there is a form, and there is a round table of public education that we have called from time to time, honourable Member. I would also deny what you said about alternative schools and Waldorf schools, because on October 30, Zoltán Szabó was there at the consultation on the bill you mentioned on behalf of the Waldorf schools, and he did not express any concern that you mentioned. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, So please don't spread false news. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-19-12	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Representative Tibor Bana, Jobbik Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech: how credible is the government's policy? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2019-11-19-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Following the 2010 parliamentary elections, the Orbán government announced the Eastern opening policy. This alone would not have been a problem, but the more that it has become a policy of western closure. How can I support this statement, and what are the main reasons why Jobbik strongly criticizes the foreign policy of the Hungarian government and Viktor Orbán? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Grey wolves!]] • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] that we can see overall [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: EU flag burners! You opened up to the West by burning an EU flag!]] that Hungary has received almost and exclusively eastern despots in recent years [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Angela Merkel! Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] President Putin, Turkish President Erdoğan is almost home to Viktor Orbán in Hungary. They are the ones whom the Hungarian Prime Minister warmly welcomes, but what we can see is that Viktor Orbán and the Hungarian Government will isolate our country from the Western world, the European Union. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: I object on behalf of the Chancellor! Dr. Brenner Koloman: Suspended place in the People's Party!]] But let us consider some specific examples. One of these is the KGB bank, the International Investment Bank or IIB, which is a clear [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It's a Russian bank, and many people call it a Russian spy bank for a reason. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Grey wolves! That doesn't make it true.]] I myself have held several press conferences on this matter, and I have said that it is extremely repulsive that an institution of such dubious and dubious backgrounds will receive different prerogatives in Hungary, and this is not at all in order to improve the perception of our country in the European Union and in the West. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The burning of the EU flag serves to improve our image!]] I find this step amazing. Jobbik also protests what is happening with regard to the Turk Council. This will be the general debate this week, as we can see here, too, that the institution itself and those who work there will receive different exemptions. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Did Gyurcsány write this text?]] Make no mistake: of course I am not talking about not building relations in the East, and Jobbik is also in favour of strengthening our economic relations with major powers such as Russia, Turkey or other Eastern states, where appropriate. It is not that, but that Hungary should not be isolated from the West at the same time. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What are we talking about?]] and we should not turn away from the European Union. After all, we can see that Orbán now seeks only the favors of the eastern despots, and sees them as a kind of role model. As a result, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with the fact that, in the event of the introduction of the rule of law mechanism, Hungary may fall from serious cohesion funds in the next seven years' budget period. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We hear a speech from SZDSZ!]] Of course, we can see it. [[Bence Rétvári: Hungarian Bálint would applaud!]] that, over the past years, the Hungarian Prime Minister and your government have done everything in their power to destroy democracy, to reduce the system of brakes and counterweights, freedom of the press [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Harder, Tibor, harder!]] , take action against freedom of speech, reduce the rights of its representatives, and bring in countless amazing laws that have been passed over the last few years or are about to be adopted. I am asking you and asking you, Mr Secretary of State, to turn back on this path, because this is not in the interests of Hungary and the Hungarians, because during the period of the regime change, the Hungarian nation has made it clear that we must orientate towards the West. The aim was to become part of Euroatlantic integration, to become a member of the European Union, a member of NATO's military federal system. And I was born a few years before the regime changed in 1985, so I belong to that generation as a right-wing conservative politician [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] for members of democracy [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Ex-right!]] and freedom has always been fundamental values, and Euroatlantic integration, the importance of belonging to the Western community, has always been at our disposal. Such an attitude should also be typical of the Hungarian government, instead of shouting out at them, they should focus more on it. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] to take Hungary in this direction, as this would serve the uplifting of the economy and the interests of the Hungarians. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We are not taking Hungary anywhere, here it is! Dr. Brenner Koloman: Lock him up for ten years.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Jobbik will fight for Hungary to be a free, happy and democratic country, which is undoubtedly part of the West and imagines its future in the European Union and NATO. I can only trust that the Hungarian government's policy will also change in this respect. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That the Jobbik has changed is without a doubt!]] and give up the policy of turning east, the policy of closing west [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: If anyone's changed, it's Jobbik!]] and finally start building links to the European Union, the value community of the Western world. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-19-14	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-11-19-15	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I am a little embarrassed, Mr President, because I thought that the Democratic Coalition had already spoken before the agenda. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Dr. Brenner Koloman: You wanted to be funny, dear God.]] But today we heard two speeches before the agenda on behalf of the Democratic Coalition, and you were the one who made this second speech. [[9.40]] It was quite absurd, because this speech made absurd statements in it, and so, it is possible to say that it was nicely lined up for the democratic coalition traditions to mention only one example here, who, for example, had the Hungarian state security agencies screened with Russian agents disguised as Bulgarians before 2010, for example, when espionage was mentioned. [[Constant intervention from Jobbik benches, including Dr. Brenner Koloman: Yugoslavian frogman...]] You joined these political forces, and with these political forces, your party will run in an election alliance. [[Interventions from the benches of opposition parties, including Dr. Brenner Koloman: Seriously, this man is funny! The president's ringing the bell.]] But not just to talk about DK, but to talk about you, it was you, so let's not forget that. [[Gergely Harvesto: Tell us more about DK, please.]] who specifically burned the flag of the European Union. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] The flag of the European Union was burned. [[Interviews from the benches of Jobbik, among other things: Your ally... Trianoni memorial... shame yourselves! Dr. Brenner Koloman pointing to the Presidential Pulpit: Who dropped the EU flag from here? The Fidesz! Gergely Arató: The Soviet Union is not the European Union!]] It is also an outrage to me that the flag of any country will be dishonored in this way, but to do so with the flag of the alliance to which we joined of the free will of the Hungarians, and that is quite outrageous! [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches. Noise in the room.]] You, the good guys, did that back in the day. You had a party president.... [[Constant interruptions. The president's ringing the bell.]] Excuse me, Congresswoman and gentlemen, I know history hurts, I know the truth hurts, but if you bring up such nonsense, then I can't do anything but hold a mirror in front of you and confront you with the truth. So I'd like to continue this line. Your party president, Gábor Vona, is attached to his name by the quote that we should be members or free, that is the question, choose, and he said this in connection with the continuation of accession to the European Union and EU membership. [[Interventions from the benches of opposition parties.]] So it was you and you applauded him, applauded him in public. [[The president's ringing again.]] You were the only party that attacked the country's accession to the EU, and you disagreed with it. You believe that Hungary should not have joined the European Union. What are you talking about, Congressman? What are you talking about? And I'll keep going. Spying, it came up again. Not only did you have a representative of the European Parliament no longer exist, but it was in the previous term, who was specifically accused of espionage. Not the Hungarian authorities, but the EU bodies. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea's intervention.]] He served a foreign interest, elected as a Hungarian MEP from Hungary. So your party is a party of opponents of the Union, a party of foreign agents and foreign spies. [[Gergely Harvester's intervention.]] And then you ask the Hungarian government to know what foreign policy should be done? If you're in government position, I'd lead this country out of the federal system it belongs to as shit! [[Interviews from Jobbik benches, among other things: What are you talking about? Dr. Brenner Koloman: You're doing this, don't you see? We're at 14 percent... noise in the room. The president's ringing the bell.]] It's pretty amazing. And there's another side to it. Government parties have supported it from the outset, and at the moment, they continue to support the country's membership of the European Union and its membership of NATO. [[The president's ringing again.]] But in addition to forming part of these federal systems and participating in the day-to-day work of these federal systems, we have one task, and that is to represent the Hungarian national interest. [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: Suspended from the People's Party, yes!]] So there must also be a policy in these federal systems that will benefit the Hungarian nation, and sometimes this will involve conflict, and then these conflicts will have to be carried out. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Failed... Dr. Brenner Koloman: Bringing the KGB bank to the benefit of the Hungarian nation! Congratulations.]] But you do not undertake these conflicts, you do not represent the Hungarian interest in these alliances, but you support the mine work that the left is now traditionally, historically, against Hungary. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Yugoslav frogs... Comrade Rakosi would be happy for you, my friend! Chain dog...]] Take a look at the recent anomaly regarding the hearing of Commissioner Oliver Várhelyi. Olivér Várhelyi is a candidate for whom there is no doubt as to his professional readiness or integrity. [[Interviews from the benches of opposition parties, including Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Don't say... Dr. Brenner Koloman: Joystick... the president is ringing.]] I would also like to congratulate you on having successfully passed the nomination process, despite the mine work. But what have you done in the meantime? Nothing. All they did was undermine and betray the Hungarian interest in Brussels, as they did before, and as they have done for years. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Time's up, Mr. President. There's been a lot of that, Mr. President.]] So I would like to ask you to stop this type of activity and rethink Jobbik's foreign policy. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Ágnes Vadai to the president.]]
u2019-11-19-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Before they try to form a separate choir [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Mezzo, alt...]] I need you to stop this, please. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Look to the right, Mr. President.]] Congresswoman, I'm not arguing with you. [[Noise and interventions from the benches of opposition parties. Complaining from the benches of the governing parties: It will be a fine!]] I'm not arguing. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, Member of the LMP Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on current affairs. You have a chance to talk now, Congressman.
u2019-11-19-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I think that we should start with the speech before the current agenda by thanking social workers for the work they do in the Hungarian institutions by making them extremely underpaid and not having the opportunity to strike. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]] The fact is that the Ionesco drama that the EMMI has been carrying on with the social workers' union and the MKSZ has touched on a new chapter. For it has been the case that a trade union which is not told what is sufficient service has been placed against the government in a position that the government, in fact manifesting a quantum physics miracle at the same time, has two positions. According to Deputy State Secretary Attila Simon, 100 percent of tasks should be considered acceptable, while on the same day Bence Rétvári I hope you will respond, according to MKKSZ, that there is no such thing as an acceptable service, so there is no legal possibility for the social union to strike. Please tell me here, by the way, if you'll have the opportunity to answer the real answer, what the social union needs to do to finally get a date when they can strike. And let's talk about why social workers in Hungary want to strike. Even though you will give the same 1974 production report that everyone in this country has listened to 74 times, the situation is as follows. The fact is that 76 percent of the civil servant pay table, that is 130 out of 170, is quite a lot of the wage paid by the minimum wage or the minimum wage in the social institution. So even though you're saying average wages, even though you're going to say how much that's grown, that means a minimum wage or minimum wage for 76 percent of the people who work there. The thing is, we need a minimum of a degree, because otherwise, those who have learned to do this wonderful job will go away. Still, even according to the EMMI, 10,000 people are missing from the social sector. According to the EMMI, at least 15 percent of the workforce is understaffed. The fact that the EMMI does not allow collective agreements in this sector is absolutely outrageous and amazing, this goes against all fundamental labour law in the European Union, and it is simply incomprehensible why collective agreements are allowed in other public sectors, and they do not do so here. The thing is, from how much we spend on public money, we can see exactly what's important to a government. The EU average is that we spend 28.2 percent in the social sector, this is the EU average, compared with 19.2 percent in the Hungarian budget. There would be a place to increase this; yes, if you think the Hungarian economy is doing so well, we should invest this money here. The thing is, today there will be a seven-party meeting on the initiative of the LMP to discuss how we legislators should discuss the strike law, which you have modified, so that these people have the right to express what they want to express in terms of wage conditions. I hope that Fidesz and KDNP will also be involved today and show that they also regard the social sector as a national issue. Now it is not in News Television that everything is all right, but this is the opportunity to create a national consensus and to tell us what we Hungarian legislators intend to do. Here's the 12-point demand from the MKSEC what they're asking the government to do. [[He's showing me a sheet of paper.]] I'd like to present this in the remaining time. The first and most important is the immediate wage increase. The second is the restoration of 5 days' leave and less overtime; the restoration of flexible working hours; the lunch break should be a part of working time again; the recognition of working years and experience, so there should be a greater multiplier within the pay table. They ask for the return of trade union rights, early retirement; do not take away the pensions of the professionals who take the job; cease the employer's self-indulgence; re-establish the day of administration on 1 July; and request the establishment of a national labour round table. I would also like to add one more thing to your attention that the head of SZAD said on 18 November. [[9.50]] The EMMI says that it is necessary to ensure the right of those who are involved in social care to receive benefits even if there is a strike. That's the truth of the EMMI, which is why you and the union have to agree on how to start a strike. But do you know what doesn't give Hungarian people the right to participate in normal social care? The fact that ten thousand jobs are unfilled is that a medical educator earns 130 thousand forints, and that you have not listened to these people in almost ten years. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2019-11-19-18	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. I note, Mr President, that in his intention to speak, the everyday difficulties of rural cities, the issues of public transport, have been addressed. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-11-19-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, we listened with interest to his thoughts on the near-fall-out situation in rural transport. Let us hope that you will devote at least one or two sentences to rural people when you have given this title to your speech. [[Péter Ungár: There are also social things in the country.]] Honourable Congressman, We have also expressed our appreciation for workers in the social sphere and sector by introducing the day of social work in Hungary, but you have not even bothered to support it here in Parliament, honourable Member. You come up from week to week, or rather I say from month to month with your claim that the strike law rules out strike in Hungary, excluding cessation of work. We have only all seen, honourable Member, that in the case of the Audi, a strike was somehow organised, and yet the strike was organised in Hungary. [[Péter Ungár: Private Company! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Private company is different!]] How is it that, on the one hand, you have been saying for years about the Labour Code to rule out strike while we ourselves have seen a strike, or an effective strike, which ended with an agreement between the employer and the employee? Mr President, this very organised and partly effective strike shows that it is not true for you to claim [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: It's a private company!]] The possibility of a strike in Hungary is excluded. As far as negotiations are concerned, the EMMI is in continuous negotiations with the MKSZ and SZAD, and these negotiations are very intense for one year now, and there was a round of strike negotiations yesterday as well, so it takes place fully within the legal framework. If there is no consensus between government representatives as quasi-employers and trade unions on the fact that, for the sake of those who are well cared for, the honourable Member is not about the government or trade unions, but about those who are well cared for, the caregivers should not suffer the day, so let the strike also make sense, so let it be visible to the public and to everyone else that there is a strike, which is why this is clearly possible in the law, but this does not mean that, in such a case, where people who cannot take care of themselves need to be cared for, they should not be provided without care. The minimum level of this should be determined, since it is not possible that the door will not be opened for days. So there is a certain level to this. In this there is either consensus between the two parties, or if it does not develop, then there is a natural way, as in many other cases, that the court will decide if the parties cannot do so, then the court will decide. I understand that the trade unions have also announced that they will go to court, that since the two parties have not been able to establish this together in general during the strike negotiations, so there is no big difference in this practice, then the court will decide what level must be ensured in all institutions, and what is beyond that level, so it can form part of the strike. Honourable Congressman, Indeed, we can say that the average wage levels of social workers started at very, very low levels in 2010, but since then we have managed to make an 84 percent increase in several steps, so the average wage in the social sphere today is 115 thousand forints higher than many years ago. In 2014 we needed the sectoral wage supplement, which meant a surplus of HUF 14 billion, the sectoral wage supplement in the following year, which mainly sought to increase the wages of those with higher education or higher practice and longer-term practice. The uniform wage supplement came, the minimum wage and the minimum wage increases for skilled workers, which in many cases pushed these wages even further. You have asked us to include these allowances in the basic wages. This would have been detrimental to those working in the social sphere because they are in the lower part of the pay table and are affected by the increase in the minimum wage for skilled workers, which would have basically eaten up their minimum wage premium, so they will also receive the minimum wage increase and find out about the sectoral wage and the sectoral wage supplement, so they can achieve a higher income. With your proposal, they would have merged, and there would have been a lot more at the minimum wage level for skilled workers than they are now. So you have also made a negative suggestion on these people's case. I would also like to say that there was an increase in the number of people working in the social sphere, there was a figure of over 80,000 in 2010, now there is a figure of well over 90,000 working in this sphere, and next year's budget, precisely so that all institutions, not only the state, but also the local governments, the ecclesiastical and civil institutions, can function in addition to rising wages, which is why there is a surplus of nearly 40 billion in the next year's budget on these lines. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-19-20	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, KDNP Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech with the title "100 years in Hungarian-Polish diplomacy." Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
u2019-11-19-21	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Fellow Members! Dear Secretary of State, After 123 years of division, on 11 November 1918 the divided parts of Poland were reunited. All this happened during a period that brought destruction and tragedy to us Hungarians. Despite all the difficulties of Hungary, torn to pieces after the defeat of the World War, and heavy internal conflicts, it has been diplomatically represented since the moment of Polish independence, because the advisor of the former Warsaw Consulate of the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy, Iván Csekonics, remained in place and did his work without interruption. This was also crucial because Hungary had little opportunity to set up foreign representations before the signing of the Trianon peace treaty, since neither the Antan nor the neighbouring countries recognized the newly formed Hungarian state. To strengthen relations after the fall of the Republic of the Council, exactly a hundred years ago, on 19 November 1919, Poland officially accepted our representation in Warsaw. Poland was already at war with the Soviet State and was increasingly demanding the help of Hungary, with which we were not even indebted. At the fateful battle of the Polish-Soviet war in the Battle of Warsaw, without the shipment of Hungarian ammunition, Poland's independence would not have remained. This is also a true example of the previous 900 years of unparalleled solidarity, mutual respect and respect-based friendship, which has produced a great deal of results over the last hundred years. Following official contacts, Polish-Hungarian organisations in the fields of politics, economy and culture have been established since the 1920s. Thanks to this, when Poland was invaded by the troops of Germany in Hitler and the Soviet Union in Stalin, more than 100,000 Polish refugees and civilians found not only shelter but also friends in our country, despite the enormous German pressure. CHAPTER XX During the century, my fellow Members, Communism also tested our relations, since the Kremlin's attention was even extended to try to break our historic friendship, solidarity. However, the two societies facing the dictatorship and the Soviet system reacted vividly to events in their other country. This was also the case during the demonstration on 23 October 1956, which, as we know, was originally organized in the spirit of expressing sympathy for the Poles, but the Poles responded similarly to the Hungarian events, giving blood to the Hungarian wounded, and launching supplies of medicines and food to Budapest. [[10.00]] And, ladies and gentlemen, We were also touched by the spiritual and spiritual renewal of Pope John Paul in Poland. The Polish opposition movements were an example for us, and served as a benchmark. After the change of regime, our relations were further strengthened by building on this fund. For more than a decade now, we have jointly remembered the historically unique Hungarian-Polish friendship, which has become an engine of ever-increasing V4 cooperation at European level. Ladies and gentlemen, A century has passed since our diplomatic relations showed that we can count on each other in the same way as in the previous nine hundred years. I believe that this will continue in the centuries ahead. God bless the Hungarian-Polish friendship! Thank you for your attention.
u2019-11-19-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Tamás Menczer wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-11-19-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Mr. Vice President, I would like to join in what you have finished: God bless the Hungarian-Polish friendship, the Hungarian-Polish alliance! As the hit says: you always need a friend, you always have a good friend, but you always need a best friend, and indeed, the Hungarian-Polish relationship can rightly be called the best friendship. As you have mentioned, we have always stood side by side, know and experience each other's history, obviously there are many similarities in our history, and it is a very important feature of our friendship that friends do not betray each other in the past, nor do we betray each other in the present. Dear House, Perhaps from the fact that Hungarian and Polish history have both been vomiting, we have had a lot of difficulties, but there is one positive thing that I believe is that we have a strong instinct for life, and we have a healthy instinct for life today, which is rare. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] otherwise in Europe, and this instinct of life is the source of our ability to provide good answers to the most important issues of our time in an alliance. And by the way, it is a strange source of current history that people who give good answers to the most serious challenges of the day are attacked, whether they are security or economic challenges, but, of course, we support each other in these attacks with our Polish friends. Mr. Vice President, Dear House, Since the change of regime, we can build the Hungarian-Polish relationship on a strong historical basis, which is already diverse and, most of all, we can say that it is developing rapidly. What I would like to point out is that, as Vice-President said, friendship looks back for many centuries, and it has now become a fundamental pillar of Central European cooperation. First of all, I would also stress that the V4 cooperation established in 1991 and our accession to NATO and the European Union provide a broad enough framework to fill our relations system with new content. We also know that strong cooperation in Central Europe is needed in order for our countries to succeed. The V4 is now stable and effective at European level, and Polish-Hungarian friendship provides the engine and the axis for this cooperation. Turning to this period, our diplomatic relations in our bilateral relations are developing predictablely and dynamically, one of the most important results of this is the meetings at the highest level in the bilateral and multilateral framework. The Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, have met six times this year in each other's capitals, the Foreign Ministers have attended five high-level meetings and have negotiated in the other country. Another noticeable sign of development is the increasing number of our delegations. Besides our embassy in Warsaw, our Consulate General operates in Krakow, and Minister Szijjártó opened the Alconsulate under the supervision of the Cracow Consulate in Boroszlo, or Wrocław, on 14 March this year. Other openings to foreign representations are also on the agenda in the other country, and our Polish friends are currently running two honorary consulates in Hungary, four in Polish territory. I would also like to mention our parliamentary relations, the quality of which is indicated by the fact that on 30 August this year the Seym resolution thanked Hungary for its assistance during the Second World War. We also take great pride in the fact that on 18 September 2019 Speaker László Kövér received the highest award for foreign citizens, the great cross of the Order of Merit for the service of the Republic of Poland from the President of the Seym in Warsaw. Ladies and Gentlemen, As far as economic relations are concerned, our trade traffic continued to expand in 2018 and exceeded EUR 10 billion, so Poland has become Hungary's fourth most important trading partner in the past year. By the end of June this year, our trade traffic increased by another 7% and reached EUR 6.3 billion. I would also like to draw the attention of this House to the fact that cultural relations linking us are also developing outstandingly year after year. Since 2007 we celebrate the Hungarian-Polish friendship day every year on 23 March, the event that has now become a symbol was held in Kielce this year, and in 2020 Csepel will host this event. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] So we continue to work on a strong Hungarian-Polish friendship. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-19-24	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, János Halász, Member of the Fidesz Group, asked for a pre-meeting address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-19-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Last Thursday, the Hungarian Central Statistical Office announced that between July and September, raw data showed a 5 percent increase in gross domestic production, i.e. GDP compared to the same period of the previous year. This is already a good news in itself, especially since the increase in quarterly GDP data was only six times higher. It can increase our vision that Hungary has achieved the greatest economic growth in Europe over this period, and, like the previous quarters, we can be one of the best in total aggregation. Another reason for optimism is that the current growth is not based on privatisation or loans, but on a healthy structure of the economy. But the main reason we can be proud of our economic achievements is because it has not always been so. Let us not forget where we started: in 2010, the country reached the brink of bankruptcy at the end of the eight-year amok run of Balliberal governments. [[There's a grumble in DK's ranks.]] It is also important to emphasise this because if we remember where this government had to start working in 2010, the state of the Hungarian economy at the time, then the situation was saddening, and few people could hope that Hungary would be one of the best performing economies in Europe in 2019. Growth is partly due to government measures affecting the economy, home-building support, competitiveness programme and public investment. Wage catching up and labour market developments have also contributed to the expansion. More than 4.5 million people are working in Hungary, and this year's real wage growth exceeded 7 percent by the end of August. New export capacities are also increasing, as despite shrinking international demand, Hungarian exports reached EUR 72 billion in the first eight months of 2019, which exceeds last year's performance by 4 percent. The use of EU funds has also been included in the growth data, as Hungary's support is used effectively, mainly for the development of the economy. Positive economic processes can continue to endure. Domestic consumption and investment continue to grow, and the world economy can avoid recession despite the decline, so annual Hungarian GDP growth can reach 4.8 percent. Disciplined fiscal and public finances policy continues, public debt continues to decline and the deficit target remains to be maintained. Thanks to the work carried out in recent years, Hungary can now boast the undisputed result that its economic growth has been continuous and dynamic for many years. [[10.10]] Thanks to the work carried out, the Hungarian economy has increased by nearly 30 percent compared to 2010, and tax reductions and tax incentives have left hundreds of billions of forints in families with children, the population and businesses. The transformation of the tax system in recent years has also served to increase our competitiveness. We have set up a tax system to support families in employment, families and those in the most disadvantaged labour market. Unfortunately, however, we have something to fear. It is a very strong warning that the opposition is still being led by the Gyurcsánys, who have already destroyed the Hungarian economy once, and if they could, they would destroy it again. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks: Oh, no!]] Balliberals have never represented national interests in economic policy and have been attacking the national government's economic policy from the start. They're twitching wherever they can. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] However, the governing parties are ready to support further economic stimulus measures before Parliament, and we continue to represent that economic results should be devoted to families with children, young people, pensioners and the development of Hungarian villages and cities. We're asking the government to continue their work accordingly. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-19-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Before I give the floor to Mr Sándor Bodó, I would like to ask my fellow Members to take their seats. The basic noise in this room is so strong, you can't hear the speakers. Please take your seats and have your conversations minimized. Secretary of State, you have the floor. You answer on behalf of the government. Here you go.
u2019-11-19-27	Thank you very much. Mr President, Parliament, fellow Members. Indeed, as the Member said, the Hungarian economy has been on a dynamic growth path since the turn of the Hungarian economy in 2013, as a result of government measures, and we must see that there is a much healthier and more balanced structure than before. This is supported from time to time by statistical data on the size and composition of gross domestic product, as contrary to socialist governance's policy of indebting the country, expansion today [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] is on more than one leg, in which almost all sectors take a substantial part. So we can safely say that Hungary is on the right track, because today economic growth has become sustainable in the long term. Looking back a little bit in time, after the 4.3 percent increase in 2017, growth accelerated significantly last year. Despite developments in the EU and the global economy, 2018 is an extremely good year for the Hungarian economy. This is mainly due to the upswing of internal growth engines, which is mainly the result of the wage and tax agreement concluded at the government's initiative in November 2016. Thus, domestic gross product increased by 5.1 percent in 2018. This year's I-III. A positive figure in the quarter of 2016 suggests that this process will continue in 2019. This is indicated by an increase of 5.3 percent in the first quarter, 4.9 percent in the second quarter, and 5 percent in the third quarter. According to this available data, Hungary is once again ranked first in the ranking of EU Member States, achieving more than 3.5 times that. The following factors are behind the continuing growth rate. Various government measures, of which I would particularly like to highlight tax and wage agreements, with the initiative of the Programme for a more competitive Hungary, support for home creation, public investment. Public consumption supported by employment and wage catch-ups, newly built export capacities will also help and the effective use of EU funds. During the first half of 2019, a 19.3 percent expansion resulted in a total development worth HUF 4088 billion in Hungary, and this is obviously a very serious, very stable economic fund. Looking ahead from the economic performance of the past period, we can also see that the continuation of growth is sound and I would like to note three main pillars. Further employment expansion can also be supported on the basis of the exploitation of existing labour reserves. Although human capital is already limited, it is important to find these funds. It is also important to make investments in increasing production capacities and technological improvements to improve efficiency. The latter will facilitate the progress of projects financed by cohesion funds and through individual government decisions, and the lowest EU tax rate of 9% will also help. Overall, it can therefore be concluded that this year's expansion is up to 4.8 percent based on outstanding growth data already published. In order to maintain this, the government pays particular attention to the processes in Europe and the world economy, and, obviously, at home, monitoring economic processes is also a fundamental task. These will be addressed by the announced tax and administrative reduction measures of the Economic Protection Action Plan, the employment policy measures to strengthen competitiveness and the new economic protection action plan to be expected next spring. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-19-28	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It is 10:16 p.m., and we have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work with decisions. Before we begin to take decisions, please again, please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting equipment. Dear Parliament, We'll start our work. T/7841 on the publication of the new Hungarian-Slovenian state border documents for 2018. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/7841. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the bill by 169 votes in favour. The following is the information on the professional activities of the State Audit Office in 2018 and the report on the adoption of the report on the operation of the institution for the National Assembly: H/6715. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/6715. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 117 votes to 54, with no abstentions. It follows that Act C of 2017 on Hungary's central budget for 2018 will be implemented by T/7556. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/7556/33. T/7556/34. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/7556/33. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 117 votes in favour, 54 against and without abstentions. [[10.20]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/7556/35. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 116 votes in favour, 55 against and without abstentions. T/7700 on the amendment of the laws relating to the provision of housing for natural persons participating in the National Asset Management Programme. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/7700/7. T/7700/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, the Group of the LMP proposed the continuation of Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Antal Csárdi. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 114 against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/7700/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 168 votes in favour, not votes in favour, with four abstentions [footnoteRef:1]. [ 1: Krisztina Hohn, Erzsébet Schmuck and Péter Ungár It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/7700/10. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament unanimously adopted the single proposal with 170 votes in favour. It follows that T/7844 on the amendment of certain laws relating to forensic enforcement. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/784/5. T/7844/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/784/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 142 votes to 11, with 20 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/784/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 144 votes in favour, not without a vote, with 29 abstentions. T/7693 on the amendment of certain laws concerning the real estate register and certain administrative procedures. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/7693/5. T/7693/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/7693/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 144 votes to 20, with 10 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/7693/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 143 votes to 13, with 17 abstentions. It follows that T/7694 on the amendment of individual laws from the point of view of industrial and trade regulation and for harmonisation purposes. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/7694/5. T/7694/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/7694/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 141 votes in favour, 26 against and 7 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/7694/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 120 votes to 43, with 11 abstentions. Next up is the T/7843 on vocational training. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/7843/24. T/7843/25. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraphs (4) of § 4, the DK Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 13, 14 and 15, the LMP Group. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 13 is proposed by Gergely Arató and his fellow Members. The adoption of this proposal excludes amendments 4 and 7. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 54 votes in favour, 116 against and four abstentions. Amendment 4 is proposed by Krisztina Hohn. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 55 votes in favour, 119 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 7 is proposed by Krisztina Hohn. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 55 votes in favour, 119 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 14 is proposed by Gergely Arató and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 33 votes in favour, 122 against and 20 abstentions. [[10.30]] Amendment 15 is proposed by Gergely Arató and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 55 votes in favour, 116 against and four abstentions. Amendment 8 is proposed by Krisztina Hohn. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 118 against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/7843/24. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 120 votes to 52, with three abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/7843/28. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 119 votes in favour, 40 against and 15 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday, the Parliament has already held a hearing on these matters. I ask you, you will be included in a series of articles entitled "By Lajos Rig, Jobbik, Member" H/7892. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution with 61 votes in favour, 106 against and 4 abstentions. I ask you, you will be listed in a series of articles by Bertalan Tóth, MSZP, and its fellow Members, T/7575. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 52 votes in favour, 118 against and four abstentions. I ask you, you will be included in a series of articles by Bertalan Tóth, MSZP, and its fellow Members in the 2013 LIV on the implementation of reductions in overhead costs in order to ensure a fair reduction in the energy prices kept unduly high by the government. T/7215. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 56 votes in favour, 117 against and 1 abstention. I ask you, you will be included in a series of articles by Lóránt Keresztes, LMP and its fellow Members, on the transparency of the state security past and on the amendments to the law necessary to exclude the professional staff of pro-state leaders and dictatorship from the wearing of certain public offices. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 57 votes in favour, 117 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. Thank you for your cooperation. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, [[Noise.]] Before we continue our work, I would like to ask my fellow Members who wish to leave the Chamber in order to carry out an urgent public task, to do so quietly and in as short a time as possible. We'll get back to work. Once again, I would like to ask my fellow Members to take their seats, to continue our work. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 1996 LXXXI on corporate tax and dividend tax. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission submitted by Máté Kocsis and Erik Bánki, Fidesz, our fellow Members T/8040. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. [[Noise. Move.]] First, I give the floor to Mr Erik Bánki, the rapporteur on the agenda, and at the same time ask my fellow Members to take their seats again. Thank you for your understanding. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2019-11-19-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us is a very short, but very important proposal in terms of its content, as it gives the associations, associations and foundations representing visual team sports the opportunity to invest and develop more easily, which, according to the current legislation, could not produce the self-esteem necessary for their development. The corporate tax relief scheme was introduced by the Hungarian Parliament in 2011, and we were the first of the EU Member States to introduce a special tax relief scheme for the development of visual team sports. After the first such tax relief system was introduced in Hungary, we have been able to clarify a number of issues in consultation with the European Commission, and I am pleased to say that the system that we launched in 2011 has produced a number of outstanding results over the last eight years. The six team sports branches whose sports clubs, sports companies or foundations or associations themselves have used these grants have achieved very significant results in the field of replacement education, not only in terms of international and domestic achievements, but also in terms of the number of children who are athletes. To share some numbers with you, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the support system, the number of certified athletes has more than doubled by 111.4 percent by the end of last year. In fact, more than 80% of the aid approved by the associations was also drawn up, so programmes were launched, operating grants were granted that could be called off by associations, sports associations and sports companies. [[10.40]] As regards the number of athletes: according to the data of the Hungarian Hockey Association, in 2011, a total of 2305 children played sports in the hockey sport, their number increased to 5887 in 2018, i.e. almost twice as much as they could be registered as certified athletes. The change in the Hungarian Handball Association was much more spectacular, as the total of 24 thousand children regularly played sports in 2011 in handball sports, but in 2018 they regularly played more than 80 thousand, 81 212 people. The data of the National Association of Hungarian Basketball players are also impressive, since 24 642 children played basketball in 2011 and 69 969 people participated in this sport in 2018. The Hungarian Football Association also has outstanding results. There were the most certified athletes, 158 682 in 2011, their number grew to 266 133 by the end of 2018 and could reach 280 thousand by the end of 2019. The Hungarian Waterball Association was also able to double the number of certified athletes, as the number of athletes increased from 4223 to 9836. And finally, the Volleyball Association, which joined the visual team sports and thus the sports associations supported by Tao in 2017 with the amendment of the law: they increased their numbers from 6167 to 19 174. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, this also shows that it is worth sacrificing to sport, to sport, because these children, who play sports at least three times a week, but usually five times a week, and take part in various tournaments on the weekend, spend hours in the open air, on the sports field, not at home, by the computer or on the street. The current amendment, ladies and gentlemen, aims to further strengthen the development of facilities. Over the past years, we have noticed that the corporate tax rate, which has fallen to 9 percent in Hungary in a unique way in Europe over the last few years, has obviously also been reduced. A number of local governments, small sports associations, would like to achieve improvements that are decisive in the development of sport in their own area, in their own district or in their own region, but in this case they cannot generate 30 percent self-force for development, since according to the current provisions of the law 70 percent of the investment amount can be called down to infrastructure improvements, while in the operating area this rate is 90 percent. So this amendment is intended to support the programmes of associations, foundations, sports companies or sports associations that are otherwise thinking about investing over HUF 300 million and do not have the opportunity to generate the necessary self-esteem for the investment, so the amendment of the law allows them to start these developments with up to zero percent self-esteem. Of course, the timetable for issuing aid certificates does not change in the law, so sports associations will continue to be responsible for providing support certificates only and only for programmes that support the interests of sport and the interests of replacement development on professional grounds. So I think this is a sufficient guarantee that the money will not be spent on unnecessary investment, but on investments specifically and exclusively supported by the sports associations; and there is also the government's control, because it is the sports secretary of the EMMI that is constantly monitoring the implementation of these programmes and investments. I therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support this bill regardless of party standing, to help sports associations and foundations that cannot produce the self-esteem necessary for their investment, so that, with this bill, they also have the opportunity to develop facilities for the development of sport in order to ensure children's sports opportunities. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-19-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Tünde Szabó, who wishes to speak on behalf of the government. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
u2019-11-19-31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Mr President, As we've heard, T/8040. The proposal contains rules on the provision of the necessary part of itself in addition to visual team sport support for sport development programmes approved under asset investment and renovation, and changes to the time limit for the installation of multi-stage investments. And we know that the development of sports facilities is of particular importance for the whole sport sector, as there is competition, training and the provision of recreational port within this area. And since 2010, the government has indeed launched a number of programmes to help and support these areas, such as the visual team sport support system, the school development programme, the development of sports facilities in the management of the assets of major sports clubs, national leisure and health sports parks or even handball work hall development programmes; and we have started development of sports facilities that support and serve almost all sports. After all, we are well aware that sport funding was seriously lacking before 2010, which was a major challenge, and this situation has been addressed by the visual team sport support system, which is thus able to serve sports. Thanks to the tao offer available to support selected visual team sports, the financial situation of Hungarian sports has changed enormously, resulting in an increase in not only the number of certified athletes, but also the number of new and renovated sports facilities. And we can all see that the growing popularity of visual team sports has a positive impact on the shaping of lifestyle patterns, promoting the participation of young generations in sport, thereby broadening supply-training and the social base of recreational sports, which also serves a key public health objective. And we know that visual team sports are also of paramount importance from a social point of view, as re-education programmes directly contribute to the foundation of a healthy lifestyle among growing generations, but also significantly support the community identity and community-creating power of sport. The government's objective is to maintain and support the visual team sport support programme, which is why the submitted bill provides a solution for the investment in tangible assets for the development of real estate and the renewal of sport development programmes approved under the terms of their own contribution. The implementation of investments will provide amateur and professional athletes, the civilian population, students and university students with suitable places to carry out sports activities and improve access to sports services, as we know that the completion of investments has improved significantly in the sports infrastructure of the municipalities over the past few years. This also improves the service and background of quality competition, replacement training and recreational sport in the regions; these facilities are also capable of carrying out Community tasks which are significantly needed to ensure. The implementation of sport development programmes approved under the title of real estate development is often an obstacle to the fact that the supported organisation does not have the actual amount of self-force required in addition to the sport support of the visual team. As a result, planned investments may be lost or ongoing developments cannot continue or be completed. [[10.50]] For this reason, since the launch of the visual team sport support in 2011, several applications have been received annually to each ministry, in which the supported organisations with an already approved sports development programme seek support to provide the resources necessary for self-strengthening. However, these needs cannot be foreseen and significantly exceeds the resources in the central budget in this area. This is why the need for a general solution to address professional needs has been formulated. LXXXI of 1996 on corporation tax and dividend tax. The amendment of the Act in July this year already provided for the possibility for the approved sports development programme of the Amateur Sports Organisation with a real estate investment of more than HUF 300 million and of the Foundation for the development of visual team sports to be implemented in the framework of an aid intensity of 100%. This option can be justified in the same way for national sports associations operating in visual team sports, taking into account the fact that the amendment concerns around 10-12 sports branch development programmes in 2019 and 20 and in the case of previous support periods. However, the extension of the deadline for putting investments into service aims to help and facilitate the situation of other and multi-stage investments. In fact, a large investment may be included as an approved lot in up to three aid periods. Dear Parliament, Overall, with the adoption of the bill, we can significantly facilitate the work of six visual team sports and the advancement of its professional work in the national team sport of sports associations. Accordingly, the Government supports T/8040. I also request the support of this House. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-19-32	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by keynote speakers. First, I give the floor to Mr Kristóf Szatmáry, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-19-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Parliament, Madam Secretary! Indeed, the bill submitted contains a further positive change in a very effective system that has been in place for many years. As has been said, the Tao system in Hungarian sports has brought a new era, an era where sports infrastructure has improved to an unprecedented extent, and the work of sports professionals represented by these associations, departments and associations has never been improved. And indeed, several billion HUF of development has been implemented by each specialized association in the past period, even during the self-relianced period, which has improved the Hungarian sports infrastructure spectacularly. In the context of the proposal that has been tabled, it is perhaps worth the general and statistical data that my fellow Member Erik Bánki has said, if you will allow me to shed some light from the bottom. I have the pleasure of being the social president of one of the clubs in Budapest, BVSC. Those numbers are coming back to our association as well, what they said here. In 2011-12, when this Tao system did not yet exist, the association was able to deal with about seven hundred young people of age, but thanks to the Tao system and its resulting infrastructure and sports development, this number is now over two thousand. So the association managed to increase the number of young people and professionals who played there almost three times. I think it may be your most important benefit. There have been many debates before about how much a development is worth, how many young people it supports. If we add the figures that have been said here, the hundreds of billions of forints by how many young people have started to play sports officially, we see that this means a few million forints development for the new athletes in the span of seven or eight years. I therefore believe that this programme must be continued. And perhaps we can also trust, of course, that I will not reveal a great secret if I tell you that we support this on the part of the Fidesz faction, but we really hope that this will be supported by the other factions. I dare say this because, also as president of the Sports Association in Zugló, we were in such a lucky position that, despite the political battles, the Zugló municipality, led by Gergely Christmas, had given several parts of itself, even with the handover of the mayor at the time. So we managed to find common goals beyond parties at sports level. I trust this bill can be like this. And as has been said here, not to repeat the details, it can indeed be a great help to the various departments and associations that, in addition to obtaining tao money, the greatest challenge so far has been the creation of parts. With this amendment, the aid intensity can be replaced by virtually total aid in terms of both institution development, infrastructure development and sports professional tasks. I think that this will give further impetus to all sports associations and professional associations in Hungary, so that they can carry out the improvements that promise that the impressive numbers we have just said, so how much we have been able to increase the number of young athletes, we can continue to increase them. I would like to reiterate once again on the part of the Fidesz faction that we have considered the Taos system so far to be very positive, and I think that with this amendment we can make the use of tao money even more realistic and even more effective for sports associations. Thank you very much for your attention and I trust that everyone will support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-19-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2019-11-19-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that there is no debate among those in this House that it is important for young people to play sports. The fact that this is a good solution to this could be a debate. Let us now consider what has happened since 2013. My fellow Member Erik Bánki and Secretary of State Tünde Szabó summarized what this Tao system was, the path to supporting visual team sport, the way we lived, where we started and where we came from. Allow me to say very briefly that, while we are talking about increasing the aid intensity of investment in infrastructure in tangible assets in the draft legislation, it is also clear that these tao amounts can be used not only for this, but also for personnel expenditure, vocational training and, of course, replacement training. A great question mark is always in me when we talk about investment in infrastructure: while these investments are being made, they must be maintained. Many municipalities are already suffering from it, and even alliances will suffer when these properties are still subject to maintenance obligations in five to ten years, perhaps even longer. There is no question that the aim is to make as many people play sports as possible, to make children healthier as possible, but at what cost it will go and what effects will have on the central budget side, we have heard little about it from the three previous speakers. I looked at it and saw that in 2019 the government planned HUF 399 billion in corporate income, which was increased to HUF 501 billion by 2020. We do not know what budgetary implications this amendment will bring. I respectfully ask either the national or the government's position as to what kind of background checks have been carried out on the extent to which this reduction in tax revenue will be achieved in the future. [[11.00]] In the explanatory memorandum part of the legislation, there is a small point in which the Commission is consulted or agreed to increase the aid intensity from 70 per cent to 100 per cent. It is not entirely clear to me, and the explanatory statement has not made it clear to me that the authors are fully empowered to do so, so the European Commission has authorised an increase in the aid intensity, and I would also like to ask for an answer. One more important thing I would like to highlight is the extension of the period. Indeed, as has been said, investments can take place over several grant periods, as they are investments in infrastructure, tangible assets, but I consider the six years to be quite a lot. So I would also like to know the reasons why six years, why it was thought that this should be determined at exactly this time, because it is clear that the longer the time they will determine, the larger the major investments will be made, the greater the reduction in central fiscal revenue the government will expect, and there is no way at all to know what will happen to sustain these infrastructure investments. I'm confident I'll get a reassuring answer to that. My fellow Member, György Szilágyi, will give his opinion later in his speech and my fellow Member, Adam Steinmetz, will give his opinion in the field of sports. I'd be looking forward to these ta-saying questions for some reassuring answers. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-19-36	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2019-11-19-37	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, We have seen that in 2011 sport became a strategic sector in Hungary. It is worth talking about the period before 2010 that, before 2010, sports associations were faced with a very serious challenge of survival, development, funding, athletes and coaches, and the condition of the facilities has deteriorated steadily. This marked the period before 2010. A rational and gear-changing solution to this situation was the transformation of corporate tax paid by entrepreneurs, i.e. Tao's system. Thanks to Taooffers that can be used or offered to support selected visual team sports, the financial situation of Hungarian sports has been significantly improved, the associations can provide a suitable financial background and conditions for amateur and re-energist athletes and coaches working with them. The improvements that have been made have also contributed to economic growth and have created many new jobs in the country, and it is also worth highlighting this aspect, which concerns economic growth or job creation. It does not yet belong to this, but I would like to introduce as a subject the launch of everyday physical education, which has also contributed to the continuous increase in the number of young people and sports associations, and to the ability to teach as many children as possible about the love of sport and to direct them towards sport. I think that the change in 2011 when sport became a strategic sector has led to a number of positive changes. My fellow Members and the Secretary of State have already spoken about the current change in the Tao system, and my better fellow Member said that it is worth discussing. I fully agree, it is worth discussing and discussing all these issues. This is why the government and, for example, the authors and my fellow Member Erik Bánki have been in constant consultation with the relevant sports associations for years. I'm sure you won't mind if I tell you that this bill wasn't born with him waking up one morning and making it up during coffee, but, based on the discussions, you've come up with a solution that can further boost the effectiveness and success of Tao subsidies. The numbers of children of the age of replacement sport, how many people are in sports clubs, have already been said by my fellow Members, but I think that the basis for the debate, which my better fellow Member mentioned, is these numbers. If you look at the results of the last few years, you look at the number of athletes, you look at the number of athletes aged up, you look at the development of facilities, which, by the way, also meant quality change and jumping for viewers, mass sports lovers and athletes, then these numbers, these results can be a common basis for debate, in which, of course, there is always something to grind on a system, otherwise it is also a grinding that we see before us. It is always possible to talk about them, but it is always important to look at what has happened in Hungarian sports in recent years, and what will happen in recent years, what can happen, further development, spectacular improvement in the next period. It is very important that a significant proportion of the Tao grants so far have gone to support mass sports and reinforcements, and a small part of them has been added to professional teams where this Tao system has also been introduced either to develop facilities, to develop infrastructure for viewers, or to support their own reinforcement teams. I think that the current change will also make it easier for associations, amateur athletes, athletes to use the system, which is why the KDNP fraction supports it. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-19-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-19-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, There's a glitch in the system, I'd like to say. I was preparing for a completely different type of speech, but here I was inspired by the last sentences of my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. He said that a significant part of this corporate tax relief scheme has supported mass sport and supply sports in recent years, and that a small part of it thinks that professional sport and the interests of professional sport. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I didn't say that!]] I'd like to say... that's what he said, but we're gonna take a look at it, obviously. The thing is, that's not why this system was created. So there were quite a few of us sitting here when you introduced this system, and, by the way, in relation to the original goals, I think there was a consensus. So, in order to support replacement sport, such a system should support mass sports goals, which, by the way, are less supported, but let us not open this debate now, because we could talk about this for ten minutes, which is what everyone has supported. But we have seen that in the first year of the system's operation, subsidies were specifically granted for professional sport, and many people here have also addressed the issue, such as my fellow Member, László Varju, that we should say this kind of opportunity for such a club, the football club in Felcsút. A lot of it went to stadium construction and other things that seem to support professional sports. So I think there's a system glitch here, so let me get this straight. I think that this story should specifically support the possibility of a corporate tax benefit scheme for supply sports, mass sports and other recreational sports. Otherwise, this story in the Hungarian legal system is not unprecedented, it did not begin during your governance. There was a good example of a corporate tax discount system, and I always say this: it was introduced before 2010 in the period of left-wing governance, during the governance of the MSZP, the cultural system, so to put it this way, which operated along similar logic, obviously supported theatres in terms of performing arts. You've eliminated this, you've beaten it, otherwise with reasons that are not transparent, I don't know, you're abusing it. I'm sure this has happened, but it's been a great support to a lot of people. There they were destined to take a radical step, and in terms of visual team sports, this Tao is gradually expanded, there are not five visual team sports, but six, volleyball has joined, and every year you hear more and more questions about this type of support. Many good goals have been achieved, and I do not know, one of my fellow Members has spoken about this. Of course, I also see a lot of investments in, say, small communities that serve the sport of a lot of children, replacement players, or a small settlement or village, which is undisputed. But there are two problems with this system, one is sustainability. So what has been created in sport infrastructure, let's say, over the last eight years, has been sustainable everywhere, because otherwise, there have also been some megalomant visual investments that will later have problems with their sustainability. The other is transparency. What we see is that you have been keeping secrets about this, and the Ministry has not yet given out certain data, and yesterday there was a speech in Parliament about this, which is untenable. [[11.10]] Everyday physical education has been mentioned, since we look a little further out of the immediate topic of the presentation. I think it would be more important for visual team sports to extend this possibility even to the development of infrastructure for the purposes of daily physical education. There's a lot of problems with the gym in the settlements. Even though there is everyday physical education, it is often under inappropriate circumstances that educators are forced to teach physical education, there should be extra resources. There's not enough source for that. Let me give you an example of my narrower pathology: The Avasi High School gymnasium in Miskolc has been problematic for a long time. He's got static problems. They can't teach physical education there at the moment. It's a high school gymnasium, and they're forced to do all kinds of other things, obviously not professionally appropriate, in a way that is not sufficient for children to do physical education. It's untenable. I'm telling you, this story has to be solved, so the problem of the Avasi High School gym has to be solved. We are talking about a proposal that brings in an intensity of 100%. In fact, an intensity of 100% means that these items could be included in the budget, so that this and this aim should be supported in this way and thus. I know this is when they say it's a decentralised story, it's decided by the trade unions. I mean, I get it, like, in terms of culture, they didn't do that, because there's a budget that dictates who gets what they get and what they get. But I'm telling you, obviously, if we're talking about a 100 percent intensity story, we could put these lines in the budget. Then, in this House, we could discuss, say, in the context of a comprehensive sport development strategy, infrastructure development strategy, what is needed, what is not needed, in certain areas of the country which are really acute problems in the field of re-sports, indeed, in the field of recreational port, the solution of those things would be in the interest of these things, and then such things as the Avasi High School gymnasium could be solved. There are many question marks, so I can tell you that they must be distributed, because this kind of advance trust in itself is no longer available in relation to the submission, based on the experience of the corporate tax relief system so far. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2019-11-19-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varju, the lead speaker of the Democratic Coalition Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-19-41	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, As a result of the comments, we are drawing attention to more and more things about how many wounds this bill is bleeding or what it is, and what objections can be raised to the draft text submitted. This situation would be significantly reduced or modified if the government, which has a clear intention, explained that they would have supported it, that she herself would have submitted her intention, and that she did not ask representatives, lobbyists, to submit it to Parliament and to resolve it through it. But why is this happening? After all, on the basis of the rules on legislation, you should have carried out an impact assessment, an impact assessment of the consequences of this law. This law was adopted by you in 2010 and subsequently supplemented by a request for a social opinion and, otherwise, documents on ex-ante and ex-post impact assessments should have been submitted in 2016. None of this is happening. I understand that this is an attempt to avoid this matter, and the reasons for this should also be examined; from this my fellow Members have already drawn attention to what concerns reservation, and just go on to what you are hiding with this solution. Therefore, the ex ante impact assessment should have examined all the effects considered significant by the proposed legislation, its social, economic, budgetary effects, its environmental and health consequences, its administrative burdens and the need for legislation. I understand that they are verbally justified, but to be honest, it is very little for us. We should document and prove that everything you refer to is true, and we should believe this from facts and not from your pronouncements. This is only because, in addition to the preliminary impact assessment, you will also have an ex-post impact assessment in the legislation you have adopted. However, there is no such thing, while this proposal is in the circumstances of a method that has been in operation for more than five years, I think it would be justified. Moreover, the fact is, Madam Secretary of State, that it would be absolutely justified for you to deal with a follow-up impact assessment, because I also said yesterday in Parliament that, moreover, Mr State Secretary has spoken out here, or rather I say that he has announced that the documents requested in relation to the Felcút foundation have already been carried out and completed by a double follow-up study. So, then, it is time to comply with their obligation to us, the Democratic Coalition, who has been judged by the Curia, in accordance with the court's decision, to publish the available data, all accounts, all contracts with which tens of billions of HUF have been spent in this single organization, as a consequence of the ex post investigation, because what you are doing is a crime that I think should be punished. What I understand is that you can't be called to account in this sense, and I don't have any more options than that we're in the position of sitting in front of me right now, and it's time, or this moment is a good time to answer: why are you hiding the paperwork? [[Dr. Szabó Tünde: We don't hide it.]] And in the meantime, an amendment is being tabled, which is about making it even better, so that money can be spent even more effectively. I would add that there seems to be a reason for this, because in the market, it is becoming more and more apparent that the accumulation of tao money is becoming more and more difficult. What is the reason for this? The hardest thing for the little ones you're referring to here is because the big ones are skimming all of this, and this is led by the Felcsúti Foundation, who is taking this money. About the tens of billions of forints that were collected there, I don't know, I think it's incredibly irresponsible. Therefore, it is very important that you take this opportunity and answer the question, please, about the amount of money the soccer Academy cannot account for, which is why we must hide so desperately the data of public interest. What would come out of the documents, personally, of the Prime Minister, without whose approval you would hardly dare do so otherwise? What prevents you from being able to complete the alleged investigation for two years or, if you have completed it, submit to the judgment and release the data? What are you going to do about it, or how long are you going to hide these papers? My fellow Member, Nacsa, called the draft you have submitted a sanding and polishing. I respectfully point out that this bill or amendment has a huge problem, and that is that you, as I said, are enthusiastic lobbyists of this area, they have been unable for years to establish a system for what they have created to be able to control. [[11.20]] The State Audit Office is hiding from this and does not address this area, while, to your surprise... years ago, it has been announced that we are talking about public money, and yet you are avoiding this area, the process of control itself, in any way you do not want to develop it, which is why it may be called grinding, but this is important for you. By not taking part and actually taking some time in this area, by giving you two important stories space and opportunity, one part of this is that you will no longer need your share to invest. I just want to remind you that we've amended the rules once this summer or modified them, so don't take responsibility for this, you've changed the rules and made it easier for us to operate, and now you're taking one more step, and you're trying to tell the little ones that they can make improvements without being involved, if they can raise money, if they can, if you don't rip off most of it. So that's why you have to answer, and that's how I could say, if you look at it from the small side, that's when I start to understand you. The Prime Minister has already talked about the fact that multiannual developments are in trouble here, because the ending is becoming too risky, and therefore the proposal is here to extend the opportunity to complete it. Therefore, in disguise, but in the end, you are now making this proposal to save what can be saved, that the investments that cannot be completed by the deadline required by the law will now be extended for another two years and will act accordingly. In itself, by the way, and in this sense, I would like to emphasise, or join, what my fellow Member, Mr Varga, said, I find it very deceptive when it was actually operating earlier in the same system and under the responsibility of the government, the solution to support cultural organisations was abolished overnight, in a few days. In those few days, or rather, let's say seven, because it took some time for your communications to say that they were cheating, scoundrel organizations who were stealing people's eyes, or at least your budget for sure. Now, they're working on the same method here. I understand that there are many people who are happy to support the solution, because what is small to them is the billions of forints, which, by the way, is going uphill, and that is not enough for many sports organisations. However, the fact is in itself, Madam Secretary, that there is no difference between the two. In the same way, you do not control it, and it is your responsibility to manage public funds, with irresponsible management of public funds, you fail to manage these organisations in charge of budgetary resources. You are personally responsible for this, and it is therefore time for you to try to fulfill at least a small part of your responsibility, and it is time to finally issue the papers that have been removed from the sky. I would like to ask for your personal support in this matter, and I trust that your commitment, which has already been made in writing... because we even have a record of this, that you will proceed on this matter, and that you will not put me in a position again to put the person responsible for the press and communication, who, running away from a personal encounter, has answered why it is not published. That is what is unacceptable, Madam Secretary of State, along with this plan. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-19-42	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2019-11-19-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, This bill amendment proposal is a confession and evidence that sportstao has become a money cemetery that loses all its limits. Of course, it's just a cemetery from the community side, the Fidesz elite makes a lot of money out of it, gets rich, accumulates billions, like we saw in the case of Zsolt Borkai and his son from the sportao this year. Yes, I too smiled very bitterly when faced with this. The current amendment would take even the slightest responsibility off the so-called investor's shoulders, he does not have to risk a single forint and put it into unnecessary and unsustainable construction. The funding of visual team sports from the corporate tax waiver is damaging to the country, forcing the budget into increasing expenditure, and it is like an alcoholic or a drug addict, because the infrastructure built in megaloma is being spent more and more. You always have to go after it for a little extra money, you have to find it from somewhere, because the beneficiaries don't have the money to maintain these stadiums, these facilities, most of the time, and that's when the budget comes; then we'll find one of our favourite representatives, who'll submit it to you so that the budget money can only arrive or it can be significantly easier to reach. This financial alcoholism really became apparent in February this year. In January, the government limited the year-on-year sports lake to HUF 50 billion in the legislation. We lasted one month, then we had to reach for the glass again, and in February the government felt the need to raise the budget to a record level of HUF 125 billion by HUF 75 billion, as Gulyás Gergely said it needed more money to operate. Well, that's it. They cause damage to the sports house twice: first, when this public money pile goes into unused stadium constructions, construction of concrete monstrums, and the second time, when we want to maintain these monsters. Since its introduction in 2011, the amount of sports tao has increased from HUF 40 billion a year to HUF 125 billion three times a year. By the end of April this year, the state spent HUF 658 billion on this in eight years, which will reach HUF 700 billion by the end of the year. Yes, fellow Members, $700 billion in public money! That's 700 million Forint, and I think it's such a big amount that it's worth thinking about what it could be or maybe what it should be financed instead. Because I understand that team sports are important, that the goals that you are naming are important, but on the one hand, these amounts will only reach the targeted audience to a very, very small extent, and we know exactly as my colleague Varju, who spoke to me, said that most of these funds will go to the few beneficiaries. But what could be made of 700 billion forints? And I think that's what social workers, whose wage arrangements have been waiting for you for many years, decades, could talk about, and I think that a lot of people today could talk about it, for example, those who want a place to live. It is like this, my fellow Members, when you come up with the madness of the Olympics. I remember at the time I was a metropolitan representative, and no one, no one near the government, could answer me why we had to have an Olympics before we could settle our affairs together. [[11.30]] But let's stick to this 700 billion forint. Out of this 700 billion forints, more than 40,000 apartments could have been built, a working rental system that could have contained the current rental prices. Because there's no other way to lower the housing costs unless we create a rental system. But if you don't rent a flat, then let's stick to sports, as my lead speaker-colleague before me said, there are problems here in gymnasiums, and 14,000 out of 700 billion forints of gymnasiums can be built about. But out of 700 billion forints, if it's a sport, you could pull up all available artificial grass fields, about 30,000 pieces. Now, that's what mass sports and ordinary people can't see. But 700 billion forints could have been used to replace the production of the polluting Mátra power plant with renewable energy generation capacities to protect people's health and the Earth. The problem is there, ladies and gentlemen, that this proposal, like your entire political community, has no other purpose than to serve the Prime Minister's hobby in the best possible capacity. Let's face it, that's what this bill is all about. So I think that the end of a hundred words is that the LMP cannot support this amendment, but instead we propose the abolition of sporttao, and the use of the amount for purposes that really protect health, which really serve the future, and can really help society, which you constantly forget with a little exaggeration. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-19-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the speech to Mr Sándor Burány, Mr Dialogue Group. I think that Congressman Torda does not wish to speak now [[Bence of Turdai is not in the Chamber.]] That is why for a moment there was a pause, so the Member alone will speak. Here you go.
u2019-11-19-45	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, In recent news, the Budapest Festival Orchestra is forced to limit its operation, the Budapest Festival Orchestra, which is an ambassador of Hungarian culture, which has given unforgettable concerts in many cities around the world. This Festival Orchestra announced yesterday in a statement that it was forced to limit its activities due to the lack of funding, and partially canceled concerts, events that could be cancelled at all depending on the time. The cancelled events include concerts not only performed in cooperation with foreign, renowned auditoriums, but also a significant part of Hungarian concerts, concerts in churches are cancelled, concerts for children are cancelled, cultural events are cancelled, where children and adults are introduced and music is loved. In the operation of the Budapest Festival Orchestra, the Tao, the Cultural Tao played a significant role in this. At the time, there was still hope that at least the most famous cultural workshops, the support of the world-famous Hungarian orchestras, would not be undermined as a result, by the way, you promised this, as you said at the time that it was good, that the Tao, the cultural lake, would indeed be abolished, but to compensate for this, we would provide these cultural institutions and workshops with support from which their activities could be maintained and continued in a undisturbed manner. The recent news included that this promise was also broken, and the support of the Budapest Festival Orchestra was reduced by about 50 percent, and as a result, this world-famous Hungarian ensemble is forced to cancel part of its programmes and, as I have just said, a significant part of their Hungarian programmes. This band, which is concerting anywhere in the world, reviews praise the production with very warm words, be it a concert in Berlin, be it a concert in New York, be it a concert in London or a concert in Amsterdam. If it were to be assessed on a scale of ten, the reviews on a scale of ten would add a ten to these productions. Last time the Hungarian national team was in Amsterdam, I remember they got an eight, now, not on a scale of one to ten, but on a goal on the field. I thought that the government parties would learn from this that there is something wrong with the operation of the system here, if the ambassadors of Hungarian culture such as the Budapest Festival Orchestra have to limit their activities because of the lack of tao, by halving the state subsidies that compensate for this, then they urgently submit a bill to remedy this unworthy situation. Compared to this today, after yesterday's news, with urgency, if not urgent, we are discussing a bill that does not put the cultural lake back into its old rights, it does not solve these workshops, it does not solve the support of world-famous orchestras, but expands the possibilities of sporttao. You are quite simply disoriented and should not spend the most important resources on this, when ambassadors of Hungarian culture are also in trouble, such as the Budapest Festival Orchestra. By the way, although my speech rightly pointed to the Festival Orchestra, as it is a recent news, we could also tell you about the closure of theatres and cultural workshops, since the withdrawal of cultural tao did not create virtually impossible conditions in a cultural institution. But what do we do if you're less sensitive to culture and you're very sensitive to football? As the pro-government Member before me said, sport is a strategic sector for government parties. Well, this House, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to live in a country where culture is a strategic sector, where science is a strategic sector, where education is a strategic sector, where health is a strategic sector, but what to do is just like that. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-11-19-46	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Gréczy, DK Group. Here you go.
u2019-11-19-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I am a fan of Hungarian sports, I am a fan of Hungarian mass sports, and I really like to see many young people and children playing sports anywhere in a football field and gym, but besides this phenomenon, I cannot go without saying what my colleague László Varju said: impact assessment. When NB I stadiums are being built but now stadiums are being built for county teams of II with drainage system and partly artificial grass and partly real grass, who surveyed the stadium's capacity to see how many fans will go there? [[11.40]] In the summer the Iron Stadium was inaugurated, it wasn't full, it wasn't full, it wasn't full at the opening, even though it was free for all of Angelland, but it wasn't full. There's never been a full Szombathely Stadium. The stadium has never been full of walnuts. I'm watching the broadcast, they're playing the Paks home game, a new bleachers are built opposite the camera, they say they'll be ready one day, and I can see the bleachers behind the gate are gaping from the emptiness. Who? I'm looking at the Little Castle goal summary, it's not full. There's only one stadium not full in NB I. There is only one exception: Ferencváros, where the average number of viewers is more than ten thousand in the championships, and the stadium is full of international cups or high rankings. But it's the only one! Who calculated these? How many billion forints have gone away with these poor capacities, and who, in particular, took these billions home? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause for DK and Dialogue.]]
u2019-11-19-48	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for a further two-minute speech, we are now going to hear the speeches announced in advance in writing. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group.
u2019-11-19-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Just one comment: you may feel that you do not belong here, and otherwise this is not what the bill is about, whether we mention health care or anything else in the debate, but the important aspect that Zsolt Gréczy has just said is that in a country where 38,000 people die every year because they do not receive adequate health care, the full house of the Puskás Arena will be empty in two years. So in two years, as many people die as they were at the opening match of the Gunnery Arena. However, these are important facts, in my opinion, which should be discussed. I am very happy to listen to László Tasó, I know that he always speaks professionally to these debates, so I urge him to press a button and discuss sports, health care and everything else that people in this country are interested in, Hungarian society is interested. The amendment to the bill on corporate tax and dividend taxation before us has already been tabled by other Members, not by the tax-responsible wallet. This is probably why the justification is narrow and incomplete, and it does not say, for example, that, when the Tao started in 2011, it was now eight years of experience that the European Commission had to approve how they stood for such a change, where they want to eliminate the part of themselves, how the European Commission is really doing about it. That would be a very important question. The amendment only mitigates the conditions of the tax relief granted to support visual team sports, and according to the change, the beneficiary sports organisations are no longer obliged to give their share of the aid received in the future. Erik Bánki says that this clearly affects the troops, the small settlements where they cannot make their own contribution. My fellow Member, no; it does not only concern them, it affects everyone. It also touches the Slippery who made huge billions of them, by the way. It also affects the Kisvárda who has made huge billions of them. It affects everyone. So the bill isn't about putting small settlements that couldn't, let's say, participate in the Tao system because they didn't have a proper share of themselves. No! At the moment, this bill concerns everyone who intends to invest over HUF 300 million. Here comes the other question. Well, if you claimed that small settlements are affected mainly, there are not many small settlements who are also fighting for their lives and who would think about investing in sports for 300 million in this case. In that case, you can, because you don't have to make your own share, and the fair will be open. The explanatory statement does not mention a single word of the reason for this change. There is no justification for the extent to which investments may have failed due to lack of self-employment. Or perhaps the proportion of investment delays due to the lack of share. Here it is important to have impact assessments, which have been mentioned by my fellow Members. Yes, there may indeed be smaller associations where the use of the aid received for more modest sports development programmes may be delayed due to a lack of self-employment. Unfortunately, I'm not in possession of national data. Such data may be provided by the professional wallet, who, however, did not participate in the preparation of the legislative amendment proposal. I do not wish to convey the knowledge and knowledge of my fellow Members who tabled the proposal, but there is no doubt that increasing the intensity of aid to 100 per cent in the amending proposal is not, in my opinion, sufficiently justified and since the wallet has an important role to play, even to the European Commission, because I believe that my fellow Members will not go out to the European Commission and, as individual Members, convince them how good it is if they do not need to be a part of themselves, but rather a professional wallet, it would have been important, in my opinion, to have the role of the professional wallet and a much more detailed justification for the Members to understand everything. Just because there were some pro-government speakers here who seemed to not understand what we were talking about at the moment. The reasons for the proposal do not show what the legislator expects of the amendments submitted, what the aim is to achieve with the change, although it is expected to explain the circumstances that make the amendment necessary. Of course, there's always a reason, there's always a text, there's always a misconception, there's always a reference to young people, there's a reference to replacements, and there's a reference to health and the like. Now allow me to bring only one thing from these explanations to you. We discussed the amendment of the sports law here in this House a year ago. There were also speeches that justified the need to change the sports law, and not just from anyone: Lajos Kósa personally paid his respects here. You know, that was the speech when you wanted to break down Real Madrid Stadium with Barcelona fans, Lajos Kósa, here in Parliament. And that was the speech by Lajos Kósa, when I asked him why, say, to build a tennis academy in Kisvárdán for 3 billion, because out of these 3 billion in Hungary, rural tennis development could be solved, not in one place, then Lajos Kósa replied, and I quote you only to make the reasons clear: the tennis academia is based on the model of the Santa Monica club. The point is that they run a sports club in Santa Monica where the Olympic champions train together with the otherwise wealthy citizens because they have this prestige, but they also build a Jacuzzi... - he said, didn't he, Lajos Kósa, why we need the hot tub, that's why. If, by the way, a part of the citizens of Kisvárda who have money thinks that he is enjoying himself and can create a club life, then social community life and the contestants are together, then I think that this should be done. So this was one of Lajos Kósa's reasons a year ago; here I say once again for a three billion-dollar sports investment, a tennis academy, a three billion-dollar sports investment from which, by the way, once again, I could have solved the rural tennis margin. [[The chair will be taken by Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.]] But speaking of Kisvárda, just so we know what we're talking about, let's take a look at it, because this is where the sports subsidies that we have in this country don't go to unnecessary investments. Let's see if it's Kisvárdán, which is a city of the world, because it compares it with Santa Monica what investments Lajos Kósa is going to make and what money; let's say, only in the field of sports, so I'm not going to talk about slide parks or anything like that. But let's say an indoor sports field for HUF 3.5 billion, then stadium for HUF 2.5 billion instead of 120 million, next to the stadium is a parking lot, which is bigger than what you designed for 67 thousand viewers of the Puskás Arena for HUF 760 million, covered football hall for HUF 700 million, athletic stadium for 480 million, shooting range for HUF 2 billion, but pay attention, because it is a world city, so we compare it to Santa Monica! , thermal water horse rehab center for 2 billion forints, two of which is just one of 520 million forints, and one more. [[11.50]] My fellow Members, these investments are not unnecessary. These are what you say must be supported. In making our decision on the amendment proposal, we can only rely on speculation as to why this will be good for Hungarian sport, for Hungarian taxpayers or for anyone. We can only have tips on who the amended text of the law will use, how it will promote the development of visual team sports, since we must not forget that you are constantly telling us that you are really doing more sports in this country, that you are constantly talking about massing, not quality. Speaking of Kisvárda, I hope my fellow Member will tell you, because he has said here in Parliament that after eight years the amount of Tao money paid to Kisvárda, how many Hungarian players are there in the Kisvárda starting team and even in the framework of it. One. One! That's where billions of people went. One! [[Intercoms from the Fidesz benches.]] How much does this use and serve the development of Hungarian sports in a qualitative way? Speculation is based on the experience that has been accumulated in recent years in relation to this legislation. Well, this experience, as I've already said, is not very positive. The distribution and use of Tao grants has been characterised by lack of transparency and a series of scandals in recent years. This is the way taxpayers' money has been squandered several times, but the system has not been cleared in recent years. Significantly facilitating access to these resources will also eliminate the last control before wasting and prodigals. So far, at least the creation of the necessary self-reliance has pushed the parties to restraint, but by including the amendment in the law, this limit is also set down. It is free to squander tax revenues, while many public tasks face serious financing problems. Ladies and gentlemen, The support of visual team sports, similar to those of previous years, did not bring the desired results, so we can conclude, in a multi-annual perspective, that it is not an effective tool for the development of Hungarian sports, but we have seen in the previous years that investment resources have become the field of adventurous prey. One of the excellent tools for institutionalized thefts of the past many years has been the legal institution created by the Fidesz-KDNP government. However, the bill before us does not want to alleviate this trend, but makes it easier to steal in Hungary. The bill before us will change nothing about the current, unscrupulous, scandalous practice. We can make any rules if we leave the implementation to dishonest and immoral people, we cannot naively hope for Hungarian sports to flourish. Finally, I would just like to say that the free resources received without performance, on the basis of my brother's relations, do not encourage, but rather discourage, draft Hungarian sports. It is the sport that teaches us that without real performance we cannot expect results. This is precisely the basic reality of the current system, so it is not acceptable and cannot be supported. Jobbik will never support squandering various public funds without any performance, putting different public funds into the pockets of friends and relatives, and without different achievements, greats such as Viktor Orbán's stróman, Lőrinc Mészáros will grow out of these funds in Hungary. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-19-50	Thank you, Congressman Szilágyi. I salute my fellow Members. Speaking in advance Attila Mesterházy, MSZP. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-19-51	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I think tao is a good initiative. I think that tao is an initiative that serves the interests of Hungarian sport, but I must add immediately that it should be taken care of for this reason. Because these comments show here in the House, at each such amendment of the bill or even at the referral, that I was here in the debate, and this project or this law clearly shows how a good, useful initiative, which specifically enjoyed a national consensus in the House, is a project that is entangled by corruption, which the opposition has a completely different view of in a visible way than the ruling party. I think that this is your responsibility, because many of the investments mentioned by my fellow Member Szilágyi or others, which are clearly unnecessary investments, are not in the interest of Hungarian sport. They serve certain lobbying interests. This may be a lobbying interest for individual representatives, so that I do not assume anything very worse, and of course there are cases where we are talking about the academy of Felcsút, which is clear and clear: it serves the prime minister's hobby and serves his favorite football team. I think this would not be permissible in a country with such national sports traditions, because they take this opportunity or support from the very people it is about: the Hungarian children, the Hungarian athletes, the athletes, the top athletes who bring national pride to all Hungarian citizens living in this country. Which is why I'm saying she should be taken care of. Madam Secretary and my fellow Members should show greater restraint when they are able to lobby horse wellness or whatever the hell they are, then you should, no, no; please don't do this, because this will discredit all other intelligent Tao investments where appropriate. We don't need Kisvárda for 3 billion forints, obviously. It might be for Budapest anyway, I don't know, but it's not for Kisvárda, that's for sure. I think there's been a lot of problems with this lake over the past few days. One is transparency, because what my colleague Varju was talking about is clearly about transparency and the other is that the public is clearly having problems with this system, while it could not be, because we are talking about public money. We are talking about the tax payment that would go into the budget, the Hungarian budget will resign. So this is public money. The whole point of the system would be to be transparent, public and thus verifiable for everyone, not only for Members of Parliament, but also for citizens or professionals or athletes in sport. The other: professionalism and equal opportunities, these are the other two things. Professionalism can indeed be implemented through sports development programmes of sports associations, but it would be worth adding another requirement here that it is also important to build a school every 20 kilometres, where appropriate, or hockey courts, or where a multifunctional sports hall or any other sports facility is needed in that area. Therefore, the development of this sport infrastructure should indeed be supervised by the Ministry or State Secretariat concerned on the basis of professional considerations. If there's plenty of this kind of school somewhere, there shouldn't be three more schools in the area, because they can't afford to keep it up. And the principle of equal opportunities or justice should be implemented in such a way that sports development or development of sports infrastructure takes place where this is needed, and appropriate priorities based on professional, social policy and health policy priorities; not where a stronger dog can start a family to be polite. So it's not where the congressman is stronger and that's why he can do horse wellness even in chains for a Tao investment. I would like to suggest that, precisely in order to keep this instrument as a basis for a national consensus, it would be worth it that those who abuse it, who abuse it, abuse it, exclude them, and have the political courage to do so for the sake of Hungarian sport, to exclude these profiteers, since they destroy this otherwise right and good initiative. [[12.00]] The fact that it does not have to be a part of itself, if it were, as Erik Bánki said, that in the case of smaller settlements, which have no chance of producing a 30 percent share, if only they were concerned, I think that this is a completely rational idea. I would add that there has been a history of not being 100 percent support, but let's say that there was 90 percent support in sport, and 10 percent agreed that, let's say, the municipalities could have replaced it with social work or other. This was important because where there is no effort to be made, sometimes there is a lack of proper use of resources, and they are not properly involved in an investment where appropriate. So, where a person has to commit in some form or in the case of his own work in such a project, more attention is paid, and efficiency or the elimination of waste may be more careful than receiving 100 percent of the state's resources as a gift. Indeed, the fact that 100% of billion-dollar sports facilities can be financed by the state is questionable whether this is the right one and the 100-percent aid intensity is necessary in this respect. Therefore, it would have been appropriate to distinguish between different investments in sport by law. The other is, I think there's enough stadiums in this country. If more and more stadiums are to be built from the Tao resources, the social support for this program will certainly become less and less and more often compared with CT equipment and life support equipment and ambulances and education and culture and the Festival Orchestra with this current Tao support. So if people clearly see it being used for pointless resources, even if it is used for a lot of useful and good initiatives, then the credibility of this sports support instrument, its legitimacy will be significantly reduced, and I would say once again that you are responsible, you have the means to do something about it. It is quite clear that more gymnasiums are needed in Hungary as well as in my fellow Member Varga, as the government has previously announced with great pleasure everyday physical education, which could indeed be a useful tool. I would add that if the number of hours was reduced, because when it's seven or eight hours, even though it's one of those physical educations, it's still burdening the children. But the other is like this, and this is more important, that if this everyday physical education is to be spent running up and down the school hallway, then it must be quite much less valuable. So, in Hungarian, I know that there was a gym building program, but when we talk about such resources, it might be worth providing more resources for these questions, for these projects, than it would be worth spending more money on multifunctional sports halls or educational schools, or even on the development of sports infrastructure in small settlements. So what is important is that we do not have to build a stadium, but there are a lot of other real estate development for sport purposes that we should and should devote resources to, not only because of the top sport, but also because of the fact that in these properties there is, of course, mass sport and recreational sport activities. I have a specific question I would like to ask the secretary of state or the author, and I don't care if anyone can answer it, I'd appreciate it. The Law 1. In its section, there is a change, and I do not understand exactly the reason for this change. This is point 4d, which refers to the total value of the aid certificates, and the others, by way of derogation from paragraph 4. There is only one change of word here, if I remember correctly, compared to the previous law, namely that the value of an investment in tangible assets for a former sports property was thus included in the law, and now it is described as an investment in tangible assets for real estate. What is the reason why a sportsman should get out of the sight of the property? There must be a reason for this, or if someone accidentally hit the delete button, it is worth fixing, because if it is not for sport, it is true for any real estate investment. So if you want to build a headquarters for yourself by a sports association or a sports professional association, you can also build a headquarters from these sources, which, in turn, really serves less the needs of the Hungarians who want to play sports. So I'd like an answer to that question as to why you're getting out of the One more question would be interesting to clarify. You ran into a significant reduction in the Tao resources, as the first news was that the upper limit was reduced to 50 billion, and then it was suddenly raised to 125 billion in a few weeks, which is higher than the Tao amount that could be used at any time, as it was around 100 billion per year. Why have you reduced it to 50 billion, Madam Secretary, if you've been raised to 125 billion for three weeks? So in Hungarian, I do not understand this haste about this initiative. Let me just say for the sake of the case that I do not think that culture should be compared or opposed to sport, because culture is part of sport. The problem is not that there is Taós sports support, but that there is no Tao support in the cultural area. The problem is not if there is a resource in the field of sport, but if there is no resource in the field of culture, and if we do not support valuable initiatives or projects in the field of culture, or if they do not receive funds because this Tao support has been abolished. I would urge the opposition to submit a proposal on the cultural lake, and we are eager to see that the majority of the governor can get his support for it, because it would be possible to expand the resources. The other one. I would say so to ourselves, as opposition representatives, that when we talk about mass sports and recreational sports, mass sports and recreational sports are organised in many cases within the framework of associations, so it is precisely in associations where competition sports and sport also take place. So I'd be a little more careful with the criticism that we're talking about, in fact, spending everything on recreational sports and mass sports, because I'm pretty sure we'd be on the wrong track. So, overall, I would like to say to ourselves, as a matter of self-limitation or self-criticism, that you don't have to pour out the baby with the bath water, but it's quite certain from the other side that useless, meaningless, corruption-suspecting investments have to end in terms of Tao funding, because they're destroying a good tool that everyone else has enjoyed before. Of course, they also enjoy these sources in sport, but of course they can see the positive side of this Tao system, but also the negative side. I ask you that if you do not listen to us, then perhaps you should listen to them, although sometimes I find that in fear or fear of losing resources then, it is not certain to tell you honestly where problems and abuses are seen in the Tao system, and there are abuses, as I have to say, that unfortunately there have been abuses in the field of culture, and these abuses must be filtered out, precisely in order to save a valuable tool for Hungarian sports or even for Hungarian culture. So, overall, I have to say to you that you should take care of this instrument, try to re-establish your national consensus on this area, and not to look like an opposition representative, that in the field of sport, where you have relatively many right-wing people and many supporters, everything is free, in the area of culture and in the case where there may be a little more criticism of you from the genre, because it is a much more experimental, liberal and demanding area of creativity, and there is a criminalisation of this sector. That's not good at all. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]] [[12.10]]
u2019-11-19-52	Thank you, Congressman Mesterházy. I give the floor to Mr Sándor Székely, an independent Member, for two minutes.
u2019-11-19-53	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you so much for the opportunity. I've been doing sports my whole life, my son plays sports, so to be honest, all I can say is that sports is a good thing, and it's okay for the state to support it. I would like to highlight most of this part of mass sport, but I must tell you that I do not see how the Tao system would support mass sport. Although Attila Mesterházy told me that these clubs do organize part of mass sports, but frankly, I think of mass sports as the Balaton crossing, and events like this, and quite frankly, they are organized by companies, not by the Hungarian state; unlike the sports of clubs, in which the money flows, this could be a good thing, but there is no patience. Sport is really something in which performance would matter, but as long as we see that in Hungarian NB I in football or handball only teams that receive an amazing amount of money, and they are not played by Hungarian players, they are foreign players, so this thing doesn't make any sense, so it's basically stealing and blinding peasants. We train players who get to the point, but they don't have the chance to be the Hungarian lead team, because we buy players from abroad who we think are better than them, and we play them in the teams we can play in foreign cups. That's how it is in handball, and that's how it is in football. So for my part, I can say that this doesn't make any sense in this way, in this form. And I have to tell you, in these tight two minutes, that obviously we really need to support culture, not just sports. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2019-11-19-54	Thank you, Congressman Székely. I give the floor to Congressman László Tasó for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2019-11-19-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't know mass sports were mostly linked to the Balaton crossing, but I think it's a little wider than the Balaton crossing. The other is that several people here in Parliament have already confirmed that if the Tao system had not worked, there would be no association in many places; there would not be an organisation in the countryside that would really give a space to sport for the people living there. The fact is that everyone can't live in Budapest, everyone can't live in a big city. I understand that there is a metropolitan lobby here strongly, but the truth is, there is life beyond that. The fact is that Hungarians have the right to play sports elsewhere, even further away from Budapest, and to have access to opportunities with which they can be healthier or healthier. The fact is that the bill is clear, it provides an opportunity to secure its own strength. I also understand that there is a point of view from which some previous investments can be challenged, but there is still a settlement and an area where there is no 30 percent of its own power and no important investment could be made if this law did not give it the opportunity. Unfortunately, there is only the possibility in Budapest that it is a matter of self-control, and in others it is a question of ability, not of temperament. There's a deadly difference between the two. And the fact that my fellow Member Mesterházy is not far from the comparison of the world of ventilators and other things, but that he is also Mr Szilágyi, I do not understand. But you can see that he's using stadiums of people as units of measurement, it's a little similar to the fact that friendship and alliances are coming out everywhere at every moment. So once again, even if there are problems, it is very important to have your own strength in places where it is a question of talent and disadvantage, not a question of temperament. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-19-56	Thank you very much, Congressman Tasó. For two minutes, Mr György Szilágyi is the betterman.
u2019-11-19-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I also argue with László Tasó and Attila Mesterházy that tao is not a good initiative. Tao is for chaos and intransparency, for the sake of a lack of responsibility. A good initiative would be to take into account eight years' experience that if companies paid their corporate tax into the state register, then with the same framework, the wallet would be the same because why wouldn't it be possible to install an intermediary on the basis of an appropriate sports concept, under strict control, to spend this money in the interests of sport. So we wouldn't reduce it, because what is now involved in sport as Tao support could be spent on sports, in one person, centralized, taking into account all interests, taking into account the interests of small settlements, perhaps taking into account the interests of the associations, but taking into account the interests of Hungarian sports, and spending these funds on Hungarian sports. The reason why we needed the Tao was that this system was not transparent; that it should not be responsible for this system; that it would not be possible to hold whom liable later; and that those NER knights who saw good money in it could uncount that public money... because this is public money, because it is not paid into the budget, it will not be paid to the state, it is still public money, it has been established, although you were trying to hide it at the time. So I think it would be a good and proper system if we put the same amount of money into sports year after year, but professionally, given the sports profession, the wallet could decide what to spend it for. He could sit down with those sports associations and develop the concept that would be best for Hungary and the Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2019-11-19-58	Thank you, Congressman Szilágyi. I'll give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy for two minutes.
u2019-11-19-59	I continue to think that this is a good initiative. You know, my fellow Member, the usual thing would be that if you went into the budget, you might not be able to get where you're going at the end of the budget, by the way. This is a particular dynamic in a subtle way for budget planning in all governments, that not everything is always where it is intended to go. So I think that we should keep it fair, that this could be a fair system, which is indeed in the interest of Hungarian sport. But that's not why I wanted to tell you, but even if I said the right thing, I'd still get stabbed; I'm trying to say the right thing. Mr. Tasó, I said the wrong thing to do is to constantly confront the ventilator a little demagogically with the I don't know what kind of certificate it is. So I was just saying that we should take care of this system so that we don't have this type of comparison, because, in general, this type of comparison is always pointless from one side to another, because it would always be possible to compare everything, and then there would be a lot of unnecessary spending, but if we asked those who live in the sector from which we are about to take it, then they probably think the other way around, of course. So I just wanted to make it clear that, for the time being, I wanted to say something good, but I'm sorry, I won't do it again. Thank you. [[Demercation from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2019-11-19-60	Thank you, Congressman Mesterházy. I am presenting the floor to Congressman Bánki Erik for two minutes.
u2019-11-19-61	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I did not intend to speak, but after Mr Szilágyi's second speech, I now think that I had to ask for the floor. Congressman, are you aware of what you're talking about? [[Nacsa Lawrence: No!]] [[Nacsa Lawrence: No!]] He knows that he sees the entire leadership of six sports associations as stupid (Lőrinc Nacsa: No!) Do you think about 1,500 sports clubs in Hungary are stupid and make them look like villains, frauds, liars, thieves? ! [[Intervention from the benches of the governing parties: That's right!]] Do you have any idea what you're talking about in the Hungarian Parliament? ! [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Why take it personally?]] I believe that in Jobbik's political rhetoric, certain names sound good, or businessmen that you consider otherwise related to the government, but think about when you talk about it, and when you talk about how the Tao system is opaque and serves no other purpose than to steal money from it. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: No such thing!]] then think about the leader of the 1,500 sports clubs, think about the 450 thousand children, think about the over 1 million parents affected by this regulation! [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Shame!]] Well, think about who you offend and how you speak in the Hungarian Parliament. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-19-62	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Ádám Steinmetz, right-hand congressman, within a 15-minute timeframe. [[12.20]]
u2019-11-19-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I am also trying to approach the legislative amendment proposal before us from a sports professional point of view, which actually provides that we can allow sports infrastructure improvements in the future without self-control to sports organisations, so, if you will, with 100% public support and public money. I was glad to hear it, but I also see how many people start to play sports in visual sports, and how many sports facilities have been built in Hungary since 2011. It is beyond discussion that the Fidesz government has given priority to the field of sport, and perhaps since the change of system the money has never flown into the world of sport as it is now, according to some calculations we are talking only about 700 billion forints from the lake.. At the same time, I should mention that this picture somehow does not fit the government's decision on why the sports-loving Fidesz government is taking away from this year's budget, regrouping 7254 million forints, which were previously intended for the construction of gymnasiums, development of defence sports complexes and planned for this year's budget. This will now go to high-ranking government construction investments. So it doesn't fall into this picture, and I'd be happy to hear the answer and the explanation. I'm moving on. To my fellow Member, Kristóf Szilágyi, who has commented earlier and is not in the room now, I do not fully agree with his statement that sports work has improved as a result of Tao subsidies.
u2019-11-19-64	Kristóf Szatmáry.
u2019-11-19-65	Kristóf Szatmáry, I'm sorry. I said it wrong. I'm sorry. So that Tao grants would have improved the work in sports. I'm sure it's improved, but it can't be said everywhere. I recently brought to Parliament the example of footballers in Kisvárda, who were unable to teach Hungarian children soccer from billions of forints at a level that at least one self-educated child in Hungarian NB I could play football. I strongly disagree with what Mrs Secretary of State said earlier, that the measure of the effectiveness of the Tao system is that as many people as possible sport in Hungary in visual sports and that as many investments in sport infrastructure can be made. I do not agree with this because they can only be a means of raising quality supplies, but they are in no way a purpose or a measure. I said that I was approaching things from a sports professional point of view, but allow me to bring the voice of the people here as a Member of Parliament, and to highlight that although Hungary is a sports-loving nation, and it is very proud and very respectful of its excellent and effective athletes, there are questions here that arise when they hear about state billions and sports infrastructure developments, or when they hear about the high support of visual sports. Indeed, the Hungarian government has a strong support for visual sports and sports, but there are other sports and there are other athletes. To give you a concrete example: the excellence of the Marcali Fighting Sports Association, Dudás Virág, for example, is one of the best contestants in Hungary, but not only in Hungary, but also in the world, he wins international competitions. At the moment, his mother is trying to collect the money in a friendly and wider circle that this competitor, who can be our national pride and one of the prides of the small region in Marcal, can even compete in an international competition. So, if you think about it, fellow Members, there is a huge contradiction that there are billions of stadiums somewhere else, while our other competitors, our national pride, may be for financial reasons because your alliance has no money to travel to a world competition. Unfortunately, that's where we are today. And I'm afraid it's not the only example of Honky Flower. But I'll keep going. It is also strange why these stadiums, sports facilities, are so expensive, and how can the costs continue to increase as we go along. People should be able to justify that. For example, with regard to the water world, I can say that the public received rather scandalously that the cost of development and construction increased by billions from week to week. We should also communicate why these sports facilities are typically not handed over in time and who will maintain them at all later times. Now one hundred percent of these sports facilities will be built on public money, but who and how will sustain them will not understand it. What they don't understand is that when a people's children build a family house or buy an apartment, they can hardly do so without self - strength, but they can also build sports facilities without self - strength. You have to talk about this because it bothers people. For example, in today's debate, it has also been said by my fellow Member that they are proposing the abolition of sporttao. My fellow Members, there is something to be done about this situation. And allow me, in addition to recognising the Tao system, and I have done so, and I will continue to do so in the future, but we do have to deal with the system's flaws, and let me hit a critical voice, so that we do not get to the level that there are already people, even Members of Parliament, who are proposing to plow the whole system. I don't want us to go that way. Finally, I have a question and a request. The question would be primarily addressed to Erik Bánki, as he said that the Tao competitions that had already been approved and supported could be called down to 80% of the sports organisations. However, it follows, and of course I am aware that 20 percent did not succeed. What's the reason, what's behind this? My request would be to what I referred to earlier: I would like the sport infrastructure investment to be better justified in the future by the sport-loving Fidesz government, so that people can better understand why this is necessary and what the impact is. I could also bring you the construction of the World Athletics Stadium, and now there's a rope pull between the capital and the government. It would be good for people to know how prestigious this is, how these investments have an international impact on Hungary's assessment. Let us treat Hungarian citizens as adults, even those who love sport but do not know how to do it. I therefore ask that what has happened in the future, for example, in connection with the Budapest Olympics, should not happen in the future. I feel that people weren't well informed at the time, and eventually they made a decision that they had made. Thank you very much for listening, and I hope you will answer my question and listen to my requests. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-19-66	Thank you, Congressman Steinmetz. The next speaker was Mr László Hajdu, DK. [[12.30]]
u2019-11-19-67	Madam Secretary! I'm a promoter. Mr. President of the Commission. Mr. President. I would like to give a concrete example of re-education and its conditionality. The concrete example is my own constituency, Rákospalota, Pestújhely, Újpalota. It has not been mentioned here that there is a fundamental problem with the replacements that the gymnasium of schools, in my case 11 gymnasiums, has been transferred to the treatment of KLIK, or nationalized, and student sports associations, recreational sports associations and, in part, competition sports associations that have used these gymnasiums, do not have access to 11 sports community places. Now that we've tried to build a multipurpose sports hall, it's mainly because of the fact that such a measure has come out from under us that 11 rooms have fallen. The problem and it's not XV. district problem, but I think the general problem is that this was preceded by a major action, we built artificial grass fields on the courtyard of schools. As part of that everyday physical education, we've done 11 artificial grass courts with lighting, matching dressing rooms, everything. Yeah, but it's got a huge operating cost, so KLIK didn't need it. Now we believe that the building belongs to KLIK, even the district mayor can only enter with announcements, but also the artificial grass that is in the school yard is the 15th. the district government or any local government, but KLIK has no money to run this. So we're running it. You have to know this, and everyone in this room knows that the self-strength is added by the municipality to build a grassy field, but they appoint an operator for 15 years. There's a company that runs the lighting, the camera system, and everywhere they've shown the company that it's gonna do it, it's gonna bring the granules and a lot of things. This is a big business for different businesses, and the municipality pays these companies nicely for 15 years. On the count of 11 orbits, we've paid off our self-esteem, and we'll pay off the above part to the contractor in 15 years. That's a fact. The student sports association, the so far free, free-to-workers, after working hours on Saturday-Sunday and 10:00 p.m. or 11:00 p.m., can enter for rent. You can also go to the artificial grass court with rent if you pay for the doorman who is available in a second job on Saturday-Sunday at the school, or if you do nothing on the artificial grass courts. So there's 11 sports fields with artificial grass to raise supplies, but no one pays the janitors on Saturday-Sunday because they come and go, there's a locker room and everything. So what's going on in practice is that the kids jump in at the top of the fence, and they play football the same way, but they don't bathe, they don't dress. This is happening everywhere, at least in my experience in Budapest. Since the small ones have already introduced the preschool, we had to build such a artificial grass field in some kindergartens, because the opportunity gave it to us, and we joined the sport as a local government. There's a huge difference because the kindergarten stayed in our treatment, so everyone wants to go to the kindergarten, because there's still no rent to pay. KLIK is obligated to bring income anyway, so it cannot do charity; in the gym, when winter comes, the cold period, in that period the demand for artificial grass fields would be reduced, but I stress that it is not exploited. In addition to such unused supply opportunities, we are talking about making huge investments. These represent huge unused capacity, and this is how it is done in practice. The other thing I'd like to mention is that we're not lucky. We were lucky because the MLSZ was able to offer a huge discount here, and it was easy to agree with MLSZ on artificial grass fields. But it's not that easy, and the gym isn't as easy as the multipurpose gymnasium, which is in line with the rules, we're going to any sports association. However, we managed to get to the Hungarian Waterball Association, and we hold hundreds of millions, which we spent as self-force plans, impact assessments, public forums, licensing plans, export plans, based on an oral request that this will be a waterball reclamation stadium, and in the summer it can serve beach goals, there is a large area for the municipality where we do this. Yeah, that's where we found out that for a Tao resolution, that I have the right to collect tao, that's a separate power. This requires a special system of contacts that no one can imagine in order to obtain a Tao resolution. I don't know what kind of capital it is. It's not just any relationship capital you need anymore. The contact capital for the construction of the swimming pool is available to an external person. And that's where I get the idea that people with contact capital are limping out at the mayors, that he can handle this and this. And here I'd like to connect to the speakers that there's something wrong here. If this were to work by tender, it would work in a normative way, if we were to say that targeted and targeted support, but it would be possible to obtain this money in a predictable way, or we could, for example, have 2,600 certified athletes, there are 26 sports associations, so we can build a sports hall on this basis. But if we don't have a relationship or the relationship that you're asking for, we don't dare give it to you because we don't want to get on the ledge, we want to avoid it, we don't get to this. It must be said in this House that this is the way to obtain the Taosource. There's a sports hall that someone else volunteered for, who said it would, if we go to 2,500 viewers, then he can get it. We have our plans completely, a pallet of plans, including HUF 180 million, but we couldn't get the Tao resolution. In the Tao Decision, the budget would have been HUF 4 billion. The municipality already has that kind of money in it, and the self-esteem for the swimming pool would be HUF 1.1 billion. In this sports hall, we couldn't even learn self-force, because we didn't get to the point of having a Tao decision or not. That's what we have to be honest about here, that anyone who's near the fire, who can get a paper from the trade union, from the trade union that Mr. President has now been very protective of... but the trade union doesn't just say that there's a mayor in there, and he says he's here, he's got a nice face, we want to build it, we want to give him self-esteem, we don't even need a hundred percent free contribution, we need to do something else. So if the fraternity could decide for itself, then the water polo stadium would be built here, but it's not up to you to decide, it has the formal right to appoint something. It's the same with the gym, the multipurpose sports hall with 2500 people. The Handball Association, because we discussed it, would support it, would love to, but there's someone else who doesn't want it. Where tao money can be used in such circumstances, it is very difficult to say that it is 100% supported. Who's a hundred percent for? To conclude, the 15th edition of I've been mayor for several cycles. When, after the change of regime, I saw privatisation taking away all the sports fields, I thought I wasn't going to be re-elected. We've bought the sports fields of the state companies, and we've redeployed them all to a zone where they can't do anything about it. We bought a stadium like this 23 years ago, like the Budai II László Stadium. I personally filed it, bought it from an individual who somehow got it from the Volan back in the day. We bought the Chemical Stadium, bought the Ferroglobus Stadium. [[12.40]] So I can say that all that wasn't in some other zone at the time, we bought all the sports fields, so we could improve, but not just anyone can get access to this money. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-19-68	Thank you very much, Congressman Hajdu. The next speaker is Mr Gyula Molnár, MSZP.
u2019-11-19-69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I will try to be shorter and more bouncing than my fellow Member before me. It is always exciting, almost scientific analysis to think about how such a bill comes before us. What is the moment when Erik Bánki and Máté Kocsis sit in their offices and talk about which of the global challenges we settle next week? [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] And they think that this week, for example, we still have loose ends in the Tao, and we're going to settle this taossage here quickly before Christmas holidays. What I am trying to say, honourable authors, honourable members of the Government, is that it is quite braying about this material, that perhaps it was born on the basis of some particular interest; I do not claim that a particular interest, I am apologizing, I do not want to offend anyone, but I do sense that, if we were to stand at the beginning of a new era, one thing has ended, and now a new approach, a little more generous and elegant approach, is about to begin. He said with great conviction and faith, and now with a strong temper, the author responded to a comment so that we would not assume anything wrong. I'm not going to get into this lousy, ravishing Taovita, and I also think that using it well is a good thing, but I don't want to take the debate in any wrong direction at all. So, you said in the presentation that this is specifically because it's good because now everything will be available to the little ones. Then prove it. Then let us take the 300 million out of this proposal because, let us face it, this is not necessarily a measure of the little ones; perhaps if my fellow Member Hajdu had spoken after me, he would have been able to talk about how much less money would be enough for a few things there at XV. in the district, so let's prove that this is actually available to everyone. By the way, I was thinking about such a motion just recently, because several small associations came to me and said that this 30 percent was too much for them, could the thresholds be lowered to 10. So the person who is actually small, and wants to use it for what it was originally about to improve the network of institutions, then this, I think, is what we should do. Thus, two amendments were opened in the next few hours. If not, then obviously, as my fellow Member Mesterházy said, if he was cultural, I will try to help you in my own way, and you can do so in the vote. I have one last rhetorical question, and I really don't want to take this House's time too long. I'm guessing that in your political culture, you can't submit such a thing without the Prime Minister. Obviously, his commitment and his intention of this type are quite obvious. Now, I guess he's in Wales, everybody's excited, myself, about what's gonna happen to the team tonight. So, the question is, the real question, our question is that at the time it was political intent, that was the order for you by the Prime Minister, what you have just described in this bill. If so, we will see this in the next few days, if not, then we may be ready to support their improving amendments, if they arrive. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-19-70	Thank you, Congressman Molnar. The next speaker is Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue.
u2019-11-19-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, First of all, I think it is worth talking about what Fidesz does not intend to change in relation to corporate tax; what is really worth discussing is that the tax burden on large companies should be reduced. [[Interjection in Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] because they are now pursuing a tax policy that basically exempts large companies from the burden of public burdens and taxes small people to ruins. One of the most important achievements of your past nine years has been a complete reorganization of the structure of public burdens. [[Erik Bánki intervenes.]] Listen to me, Congressman, and you'll find out what I'm thinking. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You were just so sensitive! Listen to him.]] So you have delivered the 19 percent corporate tax rate to 9 percent, which is the level of tax havens, the lowest such value in the EU, and which is virtually a downward competition between Member States and even in the global space, as the question is who will save as much of the international corporations from paying taxes as possible. You're hoping, Fidesz, without a better idea, that this will attract the big companies. [[László Földi is replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai in the notary seat.]] However, not only has the theoretical tax rate been reduced to 9 per cent, but tax incentives are granted to the largest companies with an actual tax burden of 1 per cent. So large companies pay 1 percent tax in Hungary, small people wear more than 40 percent public space after their earnings because we pay not only sja, as you know very well, but also small people, when they buy their everyday consumer goods from their employment incomes above 40 percent, pay 27 percent world record VAT, and then you introduce this 9 percent corporate tax and practically 1 percent corporate tax for large companies. So I think that if we want to touch corporate tax, then the most important thing we have to do is to raise corporate taxes back to a reasonable level and reduce the tax burden on small people from the amount that comes in. That's the first thing. That's what we should be talking about in this House. But it's good that if you want to talk about corporate tax advantages for sport purposes, I'd like to record the position of the Dialogue here, too. First of all, the tax relief that the companies hold in this way and hand over to the sports clubs is public money. It's not the opinion of the Dialogue, it's not a simple professional position, it's a court judgment. So this public money is not determined by democratically elected decision-makers, but by the decision-makers of large companies. [[Erik Bánki: What are you talking about?]] I'm talking about sportstao being a hotbed for corruption. I am talking about all kinds of gray-zone lobbying, all kinds of slugs, if you like what the fellow Members are saying here on the opposition side, the contact capital, you can get these money on the basis of membership into the Fidesz NER. We also see that these funds, these hundreds of billions, these amounts, which are in the order of magnitude competing with the support of Hungarian higher education, are basically and largely not going to support replacement education, while there is obviously a side effect of being able to advertise nice numbers there, but they are going to build stadiums. [[Erik Bánki: No stadium was built from this!]] And among the visual sports, they mainly go to the support of very successful Hungarian football, and we also know how effective the money for football and stadium building is. We see that when it comes to stadium construction, the companies that are part of Viktor Orbán, Lőrinc Mészáros and similar figures will announce a half-sized sum, and I am talking about the handball hall to be newly built, when the money is accidentally run out, then they will announce a half-sized sum, and they will acknowledge it, and I am talking about the new handball hall that at least 100 percent of the price was originally planned. So the hundreds of billions that go to this sports class are actually very direct 50 percent, 60 percent, who knows how much they go to enrich the fidesz moonyard. We agree very much with the idea of raising young people to a healthy lifestyle, we very much agree with the need to support young people's sports, we would very much agree if you spent these money building school gyms or school schools, but it should not be the way to force local governments, sports associations and everyone else to do business with large corporations and smaller companies, so that they can take their share of the fidesz oligarchs. The way to do this is to bring these money into the budget, to put a nice burden on large companies, to raise the corporate tax nicely, and not to give new discounts, and then to spend it normatively supported by democratic scrutiny for the right purposes. Because now that there's public money in the Tao, it's practically impossible to control how it's spent and what the constitutional cost is, so the fidesz amount of corruption you guys are taking out of it. So here I also seem to have to argue with some opposition representatives: no, the Tao system is wrong, the Hungarian state should not give up these revenues. The Hungarian state's task is to support the sport of young people, to support schoolchildren's physical education facilities, and so on, but not to fatten the Fidesz moonyard. [[12.50]] So I would ask you very much that, once you really think this through honestly and fairly, you are free to present the bill on the abolition of the whole, the proposal to bring corporate tax back to 19 per cent for large companies and, at the same time, to reduce the tax burden for small people. The Dialogue would be very happy to support this, but we simply do not consider this proposal worthy of discussion. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-19-72	Thank you, Congressman Tordai. I'll give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs for two minutes, KDNP.
u2019-11-19-73	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Bence Tordai's verbal rampage revealed two things: on the one hand, that he was lying, that there were gymnasiums, that there were many schools in the country, that there were also schools and gymnasiums. The other thing we've learned is that the opposition wants to raise taxes. We are still interested in tax reductions. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks, among them: Oh! Oh! That's a serious speech.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-19-74	Thank you. The next speaker is Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik.
u2019-11-19-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I have to respond to Erik Bánki's speech of disillusionment, table-slapping, yelling, and I will try to answer these questions with sufficient restraint and respect. My problem, by the way, my honourable fellow Member, is that, if I am looking at the current debate between you and Bence Tordai, the biggest problem is that you have a huge responsibility, because what you are saying here and what you are doing is not out of ignorance, because you have the professional readiness to do so, as is the position of the Chairman of the Economic Commission and the Chairman of the Hungarian Football Federation. You look at these cases, and yet you come in, and I say that you will consciously try to mislead the public here in Parliament and try to mislead your fellow Members. I'd like to ask you some questions, Congressman, if you can listen to me for a moment, even though you told Bence of Tordai that no stadium was built from Tao, you might forget about the road. You know, it was when Viktor Orbán said that the stadium in the Upstairs was built on a private basis because companies gave away their money. It turned into a lawsuit, after which the court ruled that tao was public money. You said it wasn't public money, it's a private donation from companies, so you don't have to account for it. But, you have to account for it, so you might have left the high-end stadium a little bit out of that list. I don't understand that at Erik Bánki's, and I'm trying to remember the last few years, but somehow he didn't hit the table here, and he didn't yell when the water vb costs were gone and tripled. Well, why didn't you hit the table here then, Congressman? Or why didn't you hit the table here when there was news from various country associations that you bought a rack of tao money for 300 thousand forints? [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Shame!]] Why didn't you say it was outrageous to squander this Tao money? Or why didn't you raise your word then, and why didn't you hit the table here, so why did you save 25 billion forints of this tao money to a village of 1,800 people in eight years? He received 25 billion forints of Felcsú. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Now is the time to make noise!]] So, Congressman Tasó, the countryside is not so far under pressure, as a village of 1800 received HUF 25 billion of the Tao money in eight years, but I did not see that Erik Bánki struck the table so that they would not give HUF 25 billion of this Tao money to a village of 1800 people. And then I didn't see either, Mr. Congressman, that he would have hit the table here and asked, say, his own fellow Member, who was sitting next to you not so far away from Zsolt Tiffán, how to explain to Zsolt Tiffán what he was thinking when he said that the European Union funds and state resources in Baranya County would be distributed by a Fidesz and a MSZP representative using mafia methods. You didn't hit the table, and as far as I know, you're a baranya congressman. Why didn't you hit the table and tell Zsolt Tiffán who you're thinking of and what mafia methods you're talking about to Viktor Orbán and what mafia methods you're offering him? So I think, Mr Congressman, that we should also strike the table perhaps and speak so outragedly in Parliament when it encounters such cases and when it comes to railway constructions and the like. One more comment at the end. You said here, outraged, repeatedly and yelling, that I say that all the sports associations, all the associations are thieves, steal the tao money and play tricks. No, Congressman, that's not what I'm saying. What I'm saying is that all the sports associations and all the associations you guys and you set foot in, they steal Tao money, steal public money, and play tricks everywhere. What I'm saying is, where you're in the sports union, where you're in the association, you're stealing public money, that's what I'm saying, and not that you're in all the associations. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-19-76	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I give the floor to the rapporteur, President of the Commission, Mr Bánki, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2019-11-19-77	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I have been involved in few more ill-advised debates in the Parliament over the past 20 years. This is clearly due to the fact that 90 percent of the opposition representatives did not talk about what the proposal was about, not about the results of the past period, about the use of money, but clearly approached the issue from the point of view of their own political convictions and their own role, and tried to get involved in a system that I think hundreds of thousands of people in Hungary are proud of, and the positive effects of which are enjoyed by hundreds of thousands of people, including children and parents. I am not even talking about the numerous factual errors surrounding opposition speeches. My fellow Members have no idea how this system works. I would refer to Congressman Bence Tordai, who says that large companies decide on their own use of the money. You have no idea that, without the professional decision of sports associations, no sports association, sports company or foundation can receive a subsidy certificate, and only with this aid certificate can you go to any company operating in Hungary and paying taxes in Hungary, so no company can decide on its own what kind of sport or investment it supports. Not to mention when you say that these investments basically served the purpose of building stadiums, not to raise supplies, but to promote competition. This is excluded by the European Commission itself, ladies and gentlemen, since no penny of corporate tax subsidies has been used for competition sport. In Hungary, I continue to confirm that Tao was used for the investment of a single stadium, from this point of view it is legitimate, but you are talking only about stadiums when it comes to tao subsidies. I would also not mention that Mr Csárdi made elementary mistakes and calculations, because he made mistakes in his speech of magnitude. He says 700 million times million is 700 billion. I must inform the honourable Member that a ten He was lost in this case in the same way as when he talked about the construction of 14,000 sports halls in the order of 700 billion forints, which would be 50 million forints/sports hall at cost level. Once again, Congressman, you are in the wrong order of magnitude. But I could talk about Congressman Sándor Burány, who was a member of the government that brought infamous restrictions on health, education and scientific life. He talks about the need to spend more money on health, education and science instead of sports, while never spending that much money on health, education and research as in the years and periods of the civilian government. So, ladies and gentlemen, there has actually been no substantive question in the debate, except for some of the questions I would like to answer. Ms Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi asked if the European Commission had approved this amendment. No, because the amendment has not yet been adopted. In principle, it would not have been an obligation for the government to negotiate, but in agreement with the government, we agreed that if the law was adopted, they would also discuss this with the relevant authorities in the European Commission, so that there would not be any problems or any procedure in this respect by accident. How much budgetary impact it will have, it is not possible to know that, and what is its purpose, Member Gyula Molnár said, why this issue is relevant now. Well, that is precisely why this issue is relevant, because what was said in the debate is that not only the government, but I myself am constantly negotiating with federal leaders, because I am also a member of the presidency of an association of visual team sports. In this capacity, too, I reject the words of Mr Szilágyi, which, in this sense, was also imposed on MLSZ that MLSZ would steal these funds. [[13.00]] Honourable Congressman, If you're aware of anything [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Report!]] I want you to file a complaint. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Very cynical!]] Not here in Parliament, scolding sports associations in loud speeches, and declaring them a thief, which I hereby reject. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: He did not qualify for the trade union! The one you put your feet in!]] If you are aware of any cases where there was an irregular use of money, you should file a complaint. But back to the question: that is why this issue is relevant, as the associations have indicated that there have been a number of problems with sports associations or sports companies that have been given a decision to start a sport investment, even in small settlements mainly for the construction of sports halls or swimming pools, but in the course of the last three years there has been an increase in costs on the construction site of the Hungarian economy, so that they can no longer afford to afford or even begin to invest, which is why the associations have initiated an opportunity to start them without self-force, where appropriate, in the case of infrastructure investments. The impact on the budget cannot yet be quantified. The reason why the current proposal applies to investments above HUF 300 million is because there the government has a control option, because in the aid certificates issued by the sports associations, where the investment exceeds HUF 300 million, the EMMI and the Ministry of Finance have to approve these investments, which will obviously examine them from the budgetary side, so that they can ensure that these investments do not overload the current annual budget. Finally, another issue that has been raised by several of my fellow Members is the issue of maintenance or sustainability problems. I think that much of the current investment is already a thoughtful investment, and it starts after a thoughtful preparation, so there are techniques, technologies that ensure the cheapest possible operation, but otherwise, within the corporate tax relief system, associations can also use support for operation itself. I therefore believe that the sustainability of these investments can be ensured for the 15 years required by the law. One final point: transparency has been asked here by my fellow Members. It is clear and clear that each association has a obligation to communicate data for every Tao investment, so if you have any questions about any investment, then the associations must answer these questions, as will otherwise be answered in the case of the Hungarian Football Association. So what you're talking about here is that it's an invisible mess, and whoever's here, whatever companies or companies have any interest in pushing money out with a wheelbarrow, it's nothing but a mean, ignominious lie, which I'm clearly rejecting on my part. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Oh, don't refuse!]] So back to the original intention of the bill, I ask once again my fellow Members not to look at their individual political interests. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Are you saying this as an MLSZ member or as a Fidesz representative?!]] , but look at how many hundreds of thousands of children, millions of parents are making their lives easier in this corporate tax discount system, it gives children who could not otherwise play sports, sports in the locality or the small region, and although basically the aim is to raise their numbers, to increase the number of certified competitors, but it also has a clear impact on competition sports, because the deeper the base of soaking is in the replacement, the greater the chance that the more talent will come out, and they will be top athletes who can bring joy, success and pride to the whole of Hungary. Therefore, I ask you to support this bill. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-19-78	Thank you, Commission President Erik Bánki. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill on the amendment of certain laws relating to the management of assets and on certain provisions concerning the management of assets will follow until closure. The government referral is T/8033. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs in relation to national assets, on a 30-minute time-frame, to the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2019-11-19-79	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal now being put forward concerns the regulatory area of a number of fields of competence under the responsibility of the Minister for the Management of National Property, reflects the changes in economic, asset management and the management system and seeks to respond to them. The proposal was submitted under Article XXXIV of 1991 on the organisation of gambling. The provisions of the Act amending the Law aim primarily to clarify the law on the basis of experience in the application of law in the field of public law. Increasing the effectiveness of the fight against illegal gambling is a priority objective of gambling supervision. In line with this, the bill includes the extension of the notary of the municipality's right to close the business or its obligation to gambling, in addition to the unauthorized cash-gathering machines, in any way organised without authorisation. In the context of the confiscation institution, a practical problem arose as to which personnel could be charged to the costs incurred by the State tax authority in relation to confiscation. In order to ensure a clear application of the law, it is necessary to determine the pre-configuration owner and, in the event that the identity of the owner cannot be established, the costs incurred must ultimately be borne by the State. Since its adoption in 1991, the Gambling Act contains the provision that the cash-winner may not be authorised to operate automatically for more than five years from the date of manufacture. As a result of the technical development of the last nearly three decades, this ban has now become obsolete. The design of the equipment currently operated makes it possible to replace the main hardware elements and therefore the classification of these equipment as waste after five years is no longer justified. In addition to the amendments to facilitate uniform and coherent application of the law and the exercise of the right of organisers, the bill re-regulates the obligation of the Minister without a wallet for the management of national assets to report to the government on his gambling supervision activities. A substantial extension of the content of the report will allow a more complex assessment of the supervision of the gambling sector if the proposal is adopted. Dear Parliament, The bill before you expands the Hungarian Development Bank's development banking framework in order to ensure that MFB Zrt. be able to perform its tasks more effectively in order to ensure the development resources needed to achieve the domestic economic development goals. In line with market needs, the legal relationships to which MFB Zrt. is related are added. It may undertake guarantees, guarantees or other bankers' commitments. The bill also amends the concept of capital financing for development, thereby increasing the possibilities for the use of the funds allocated to the financing of development capital. All of this promotes MFB Zrt. the effectiveness of its financial services activities in the performance of its statutory tasks. [[13.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, The provisions of the bill amending the Railway Act clarify the concept of national core network railway track and its accessories and lay down basic rules for the construction of railway land. In view of the fact that the national core network railway track and its accessories belong to the exclusive property of the State, their establishment and operation is the exclusive economic activity of the State. These national core network railway tracks are inaccessible in view of the nature of the exclusive state-owned national assets and are not eligible for shared ownership. The amendment aims to ensure the protection of national assets, but only to the minimum extent necessary. The Law on Real Estate Registration and the Development and Protection of the Built Environment is also amended in the context of the rules on the construction of railway land. Dear House, In view of the experience of law enforcement over the past period and the tasks to be solved in the field of government wealth management, it was also necessary to clarify and supplement certain provisions of the State Property Act. By supplementing the legislation, it will be possible to regulate at the legal level the concept of other non-public collections owned by the State, as well as to establish the task of the central budgetary bodies and the rules of property rights relating to the transfer of the property necessary for the performance of the task to an economic company. In order to ensure efficient and cost-effective public asset management, the basic requirements for the free transfer of ownership of state property will also be set at a legal level. In addition, the amendment of the State Property Act allows for faster and simpler decision-making in certain procedures relating to ownership rights and asset management and in certain minor matters. In addition to the clarification provisions facilitating the application of the law, the amendment of the National Property Act aims at a public-service railway company governed by the Law on Railway Transport, namely Győr-Sopron-Ebenfurti Vasút Zrt. ensuring the status of a trustee. In addition, the provisions affect the range of assets of major importance for the national economy, which are listed in the Annex to the Act. In particular, with regard to rivers and canal regulators, as a result of the revision of the water management sector, we will clarify the name of the works of art and add a new artwork and additional flood protection works to the national assets of national importance. The proposal also amends a number of rules on trust status and the use of national assets, including a reduction in the administrative burden for central budgetary bodies managing responsible assets. The Government is authorised to decide on the conclusion of a contract for the exploitation of state assets for a fixed period of up to 30 years from the priority national interest, allowing for long-term return on investments that contribute to the increase of national assets and make the investor side interested in the take-up of national assets. By way of a further amendment, indirect and direct state-owned companies may provide their employees with a place of service from the state housing stock in their asset management without competitive tendering. The amendment also provides for the possibility for the shareholder to amend the property management contract of persons exercising ownership rights on the basis of the agreement of the parties, taking into account the limits set out in the proposal, who have a property management contract concluded before the entry into force of the National Property Act, but could no longer be a trustee under the rules in force. The bill amends the law on the integration of cooperative credit institutions in order to grant a specific right of participation to the representative of the government in the general meeting of the Integration Organisation of Cooperative Credit Institutions with prudential supervision and institutional protection functions and in its supervisory board in order to achieve the objectives of cooperative credit institution integration. Dear Parliament, In addition to these amending provisions, the bill also contains a separate legislative provision. On the basis of the provision on the free ownership of certain state-owned properties, the Unified Israeli Community of Hungary acquires the ownership of state-owned Mád real estate, the synagogue and the rabbinical house free of charge, in order to assist the religious and cultural tasks it performs. As regards real estate to be transferred, a disposal ban is required in the real estate register, in view of the long-term provision of tasks and the protection of the property transferred. The result of the amendment, addition and clarification of the rules on national assets is that property management entities can contribute more effectively to the exploitation and utilisation of national assets for the purposes of public interest and Community needs. In conclusion, by adopting the legislative amendment proposal, the efficiency of public service provision is increasing, and ownership rights practitioners can be better managed by drawing up clear rules that can be applied in the application of law on a daily basis. The bill can also contribute to the expansion of domestic economic recovery opportunities by broadening the framework for development banking, further strengthening the prudent and transparent functioning of integration within the savings cooperative sector. In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament, in addition to considering what has been said, to discuss the bill and to support the regulatory intentions set out in the bill. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-19-80	Thank you, Secretary of State, János Fónagy. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Mihály Witzmann, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-11-19-81	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, T/8033 on the amendment of laws relating to the management of certain assets and the provisions concerning the management of certain assets. A number of important laws, if I have calculated correctly, propose amendments to nine or ten of these laws, and, if I may, I would like to mention some of them in more detail in my speech as general speaker. XXXIV, adopted in 1991 on the organisation of gambling Act No. 3 The amendment of §2 of the Act seeks to grant legal authorisation from the State tax authority to the Minister for the transmission of data which are considered to be tax secrets on the basis of an individual request from the Minister. This is because the Minister without a wallet in charge of managing national assets as the Minister responsible for the State's supervision of the organisation of gambling is responsible for, inter alia, that in the so-called tender procedures, the Gambling Act and the concession Act, adopted in 91. According to the provisions of Act No. 37 and, in the case of concession contracts which have already been concluded, under the provisions of the concession contracts, check the sound organisational quality of the bidders and the concession companies and, in this context, the Gambling Act 37. Paragraph 30 (a) and (c) of this Article. [[13.20]] In addition to the above, experience in the application of the Gambling Authority requires clarification of certain provisions of the Gambling Act in order to ensure a uniform and coherent application of the law and to act as effectively as possible against illegal gambling. The proposal also includes technical and technical changes to the money-winning machines and re-regulates the obligation of the Minister of National Property Management to report to the Government in the context of the activities of the Gambling Supervisory Authority, both on the basis of content and on the basis of the deadline for submission. XLIX of 1991 on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. With regard to the amendment of the Act, a new list of liquidators will be set up in 2021 and the application will be issued in March next year. On the basis of the experience of the previous tender procedure, the authority leading to the list of liquidators initiated an amendment to the law on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. This is essentially because, contrary to the decisions closing the 2013 tendering procedure, whether it is a decision setting out the score reached in the tendering procedure or a decision declaring a cancellation from the old liquidation register, in each case a judicial review could be initiated by those who, for some reason, considered the decision of the body leading to the list of liquidators to be detrimental to themselves. As a result, the Metropolitan Administrative and Labour Court has initiated parallel proceedings against both the cancellations and the above-mentioned points, and almost a quarter of them are still pending on account of multiple annulments; that is to say, these court proceedings have been very, very long and have a significant cost burden. Therefore, because of the experience of the litigation proceedings, it is proposed that the old register or the previous statutory register be terminated by law after the seven-year period mentioned above. The primary objective of the bill is therefore to abolish the register and the previous register so that the body leading to the list of liquidators, which is currently included in it, does not have to be deleted by an individual decision. In conclusion, it is proposed that, after seven years, the old register be terminated by virtue of the law and that the body leading the list of insolvency administrators does not take a formal decision on this matter, but informs it of this fact in the previous register, as well as of the law on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings 27/A. In accordance with Paragraph 6a of that Article, it has previously registered winding-up bodies. Otherwise, a review procedure may no longer be initiated against this notification as an appeal. Each company participating in the tendering procedure may initiate a judicial review against a decision establishing a score following the examination of the tenders, thus giving each company the right to appeal. The proposal makes it clear that in the tendering procedure under the Decree of the Government on the List of Liquidators, the winding-up bodies not included in the list of liquidators are the law 27/A. A new registration pursuant to Article 6a of the Treaty shall be entered in the register provided that no statement is made to the contrary during the tendering procedure. The winding-up bodies which have not been included in the new liquidation register may not receive a new appointment in bankruptcy or liquidation proceedings, but may carry out their ongoing cases. In view of the above, the proposal provides for the possibility for winding-up bodies with a rather low number of customers and thus cannot bear the possible costs of carrying out the winding-up activity, such as ensuring the existence of an asset guarantee, so as to enable them to complete their activities on these grounds. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition, the proposal also deals with the XX. also by amending the law, namely that the Hungarian Development Bank intends to broaden the scope of its development banking activities of the private limited liability company precisely so that MFB Zrt. better ensure the achievement of the economic development goals set out by the government's medium- and long-term economic strategies, as well as the provision of the necessary development resources. LXXVIII of 1997 on the shaping and protection of the built environment. The proposed amendment to the Act lays down detailed rules for the railway land formation process, providing a solution and a guarantee that the legislation on national assets is fully applicable from the point of view of the railway operation, while at the same time establishing independent commercial property that can be used in accordance with the economic interests of the State. This is because there are a number of real estates in the country, the small part of which includes a railway track of national importance compared to the real estate, but most of it could be used for different economic purposes, business-by-business purposes, but the real estate is currently in a state of inability to traffic due to the use of the railway and the number of locations, and this is an obstacle to all of this. At the same time, for an organisation operating the rail network, this is a serious problem, difficulty, obstacles and additional burdens, unjustified unnecessary expenditure, human and material capacity constraints and thus significant cost increases. Otherwise, they would not be necessary for the railway operation, and sometimes the organisation has to take care of and maintain very large parts of the territory. By the way, I think that in many areas of the country, including in my constituency, Somogy County, there are examples of such areas, and I hope that this amendment can provide an effective solution and answer. Following the bill before us, it is also worth highlighting the 2007 CVI on state assets. the amendment of the Act, which is an important objective of establishing the statutory regulation of the concept of collections which facilitate the registration of collections in public ownership. Given that various state-owned collections may be involved, it is therefore proposed to define the concept of "other collections" which are not public collections, which includes the 1997 CXL on state-owned museum institutions, public library provision and public education. Act LXVI of 1995 on public documents, public archives and the protection of private archives. Other collections not covered by law shall be considered. The proposal also fills the legislative failure in the event of the takeover of the tasks of the central budgetary body by an economic company and also in the establishment of the rules of property rights relating to the obligation of the central budgetary bodies to fulfil their duties and the succession of the assets necessary for the performance of their duties by an economic company. The 2011 CXCVI on national assets. The Act contains several amendments. For the sake of shortness, I would like to highlight only one amendment concerning the seat of my constituency, including Siófok, which includes, inter alia, a new name adapted to the Sió lock function in the legislative environment. On behalf of the Ministry of Interior, the National Water Directorate-General, in cooperation with the territorial water management bodies, has made a kind of legislative update, and the definitions, descriptions and names in Table 4 of Annex 1 (2) of the National Property Act have been revised and amended with names adapted to the actual function of water facilities. According to this, the name of the floodgate of Siófok is replaced, among other things, by the name of Sió Torn Mű. I would just like to note here in parentheses that the rehabilitation of the Sió channel and the reconstruction of the Sió lock can begin soon after long and long decades, and the project is not only a new and modern artifact, but we can say that a completely new tourist attraction can also be created in Siófok. By 2022, the Siófok water drain and shipping airlock and the Siófok-Kiliti barrier can be completely renewed. In the context of the amendment of the law, I did so only because the project with a total value of about HUF 19 billion, which includes both EU and domestic resources, I think, is one of the biggest investments in Balaton in recent decades. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, The basic purpose of the bill is therefore to adopt, on the basis of the experience of law enforcement, the necessary amending provisions for a uniform interpretation of the law and, in recent years, changes and changes to national assets, to the management of assets, through the legislation contained in the proposal, which, I believe, are all efforts to be supported in every way, regardless of ideological and political convictions. That is why I would ask my fellow Members, like the Fidesz fraction, to support the adoption of the bill in the vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.30]]
u2019-11-19-82	Thank you very much, Congressman Witzmann. I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2019-11-19-83	Mr President, Dear House, Let me start with an opening. I would very much like to argue with Mr Secretary of State, my fellow Member, Mr Witzmann, about these extremely important areas, because they are one by one. However, the salad law that you have laid down for us, I take it personally, not on the part of the Secretary of State, not on the part of the petitioners. With regard to the entire government mechanism, I find it offensive that we cannot discuss these areas of unheard of importance, either in their depth or honestly. Because what changes are the packages in front of us? He talks about cooperative integration, talks about gambling law, deals with land planning, affects the MFB, handing over railway land, national wealth elements, putting into use free ownership in exchange for money-winning machines, and finally we had to go into faith activity. I understand the departmental structure. I understand that a certain secretary of state is subject to certain areas. But the only honest and fair procedure in this case is that the Gambling Act is being amended by a package dealing with this, which we are discussing here, not in salads, separately. And then the faith-life activity that I stand for, because I'm a believer, but I'm less good at dogmatical things, so it's harder for me to take a stand on this issue, so let's get back to the competent ones, not me, because I see my own limitations. The fact is that you are putting us in a position with this package that we cannot discuss any of the extremely important sub-areas in its depth, and you are not able to be honest enough, because this bill, the salad law, has a purpose, a multiple purpose, and Mr Secretary of State has frankly said one of them, this is related to religious activity. The Fidesz lead speaker said the other, according to which they wish to transfer various real estate elements to someone else's use or free ownership, so that the different ownership limits of the MÁV do not prevent who knows what kind of development or exploitation activity they are, because I did not receive any information about it. But if we're just watching press events and press coverage of this bill, I don't sit up for newspaper articles or cheap accusations. So I would like to throw you this ball, because we have read here about the serious developments in the Mád wine region, about the intention and possibilities of re-enactment of the areas affected by the various developments that followed. It was one of the blocks in the press articles. We've read about the attempts to rescue the property under the management of the MÁV. Again, there are dark clouds floating around about who exploits these properties and how they can be assumed to be in the future. And from the Tokaj wine region, we read about a lot of things through the bottle. I don't want to speculate in the dark in a fog-scraping way, so I'd like to clarify that, Mr. Secretary of State. I believe that all their plans, along with their intentions, would have been to present the right bill and be correct. You're putting the Secretary of State in a difficult position. I don't know if you have the power, I'm sure I'd try to throw this package back and come in one by one, one by one. A fair, fair debate can be held on this. But the fact that I have to argue about money-winning vending machines in favor of faith-life activities, and I have to do it at the same time, doesn't mean we're Superman. They bring us into amazing situations, and I am surprised after nine years of parliamentary presence. I have the due respect, so you may see that the criticism is not for you. It's a system review. It is not possible to do effective, effective, normal parliamentary work. There's another backhand. We are talking about national assets, which are used in a sufficiently effective way. One of the issues that arises is how we can do this without the national wealth inventory that has been promised since 2010. This is a very, very harsh, recurring debate between us, and we have never received a meaningful answer as to where the inventory of national assets is, whether we know how much the family silver is. My fellow Member Nacsa doesn't know, despite his gesture. You don't even know what level of Hungarian national wealth we can exploit, in what way and at what level it can be used. My fellow Member, although this will surprise me, this is a hairbending condition. So, nine years of hair-freaking state that we cannot follow the composition, value and changes of national assets in a budget planning or in a closing account, where we examine whether the budget figures and plans have been implemented. We still have to argue with a little blindfolded in that particular nebula. I also see in this proposal that there is free ownership of assets, if any, state or other owned assets. The question arises as to why this is not being used. So why are we perhaps going deeper than necessary on ownership issues, if I have a state asset, then why can't I say that I'm giving it to someone who can do it more efficiently, make use of it, and, if necessary, bring out a higher level of results? So why are we insisting on giving it to you, why aren't we talking about giving it to you? It's an absolutely well-meaning, non-provocative question, they're asking you to handle it. There's a lot of things we could be teasing about. I don't want to do that. I could ask you that after one year of scrapped objects, the beneficiary was obliged to give some kind of account of these issues, and no longer have to do so. Obviously, we could have a long discussion about all this. I feel that this is, however, the level of debate in the Commission. These proposals should be integrated into the relevant committee in their sub-schemes, and there should be competent colleagues, experts, experts invited to discuss this in their depth. That's why I feel a little barren about our present presence and this whole debate, because here we're trying to analyze the individual limbs of a huge assembled, shattered political Frankenstein, and we're trying to analyze it, but this freak and this creature are just pieces of different kinds of monsters. I can see that your feet belong to a very different dimension than your hands. When, in addition to the money-winning machines and gambling operators, I should take a stand in one and the same debate on religious matters, I would, with great respect for my own limitations, simply ask the above questions and not go deeper. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2019-11-19-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2019-11-19-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, From that point of view, I agree with my good-looking fellow Member, who has spoken before me, that we have before us a salad law covering a lot of topics and modifying many small details. This covers all areas covered by a minister, a minister without a wallet in charge of national assets. If I had to say what the objectives of the amendments before us, those nine laws and a real estate transfer were, perhaps I would say that I would talk a little bit about the matter of faith, because I, like Daniel Z. Karpát, recognise my limitations, and I will not deal in depth with all the issues, just as my fellow Member Witzmann pointed out a few topics and dealt with them more deeply. If we are talking about nine laws outside the transfer of real estate, we can say that these changes are taking place in recent years, based on experience gained in recent years, on changes or amendments that have been made in the course of the enforcement of the law, or on a number of clarification, clarification, perhaps simplification proposals that lie before us. I always say that I welcome proposals that basically reduce bureaucracy in some way, and that the names make it clear that it is possible for the simple enforcer to understand what was in the law, to clarify the topics, names and to unify things. They usually produce positive things, since bureaucracy is simplified, administration is simplified, and the work of government or government agencies or other law enforcement agencies is simplified. In general, I say that what is about cutting red tape and simplifying is generally to be welcomed. Obviously, there are a lot of detailed rules here. [[13.40]] I'd like to talk a little bit more about religious issues or the transfer of real estate. We are talking about the Mád Synagogue and the rabbinical House, which would be the property of the Unified Israeli Community of Hungary, who are already using the property by adopting the bill. Just yesterday, the government reached a comprehensive agreement with the Jewish community because I believe that in Hungary the social role of churches, their work in society, their public mission, their faith and spiritual work deserve appreciation. That is why the government has concluded a comprehensive agreement with churches, Christian churches, Jewish denominations, so that their work is recognized by the state and their activities are assured. We are talking about an old, very nice property, built in 1795 by the wine merchant Jewish families moving to Mádra. And there's a baroque synagogue. Whoever was there saw what a beautiful environment we were talking about, what nice real estate. Those who died heroically from the surrounding settlements in World War I were also users of the synagogue and members of the congregation. From here begins the pilgrimage which was created, a pilgrimage called the trip of the Csopartbik, a kind of center. The Mád Synagogue is among the most beautiful synagogues in the world. And I think he has a worthy place in the community. I think that this type, although it requires individual consideration, always requires individual consideration, but it is essential that the churches take possession of the property that they used to use, or what they need to carry out the increased public service. I think that the Mád Synagogue and the rabbinical House have a better place than the state, even though I admit that state property must always be protected and protected. In this connection, it is very important to quote here, Mr Secretary of State, for a moment you have already recalled what Article 38 of our Fundamental Law says about this: "The property of the state and local authorities is national property. The aim of the management and protection of national assets is to serve the public interest, to meet common needs and to safeguard natural resources and to take account of the needs of future generations. The requirements for the preservation, protection and responsible management of national assets are laid down in a fundamental law. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Therefore, the law before us now is also a two-thirds law. I think that this sentence in our Fundamental Law clearly defines the task of which the Secretary of State spoke about the details, and which might be the motto of his wallet, this article of the Fundamental Law. I think that, therefore, although this is obviously a matter of faith, but it is not just a matter of faith, because the social engagement of the churches leaves the framework that we set out on a matter of faith, there is a place for the state to support these churches in such a way that, on the one hand, either they are spiritually or heritageally entitled or they provide the property necessary for their task. In many places, this is not done by ownership, but by putting it into use, but there is a place for a prominent national property, such as the Mád prayer house, to be transferred into property. And I would reassure my fellow Member here, and it is also in the law that the surrender will take place on the condition that the EMIH cannot alienate and burden it. So, obviously, there is such legal protection that neither the sale nor the burden is possible at a later stage, and you will only be able to use this property for the purpose of the task. I think that in many cases, not only in the Jewish church mentioned, but also in countless churches, this proved to be a good decision later on, that these churches carried out teaching, educating, religious, social and social activities in that place. So the detailed rules, which my fellow Members and State Secretary have explained, I would not agree to, I feel my own limitations in this, and perhaps there will also be a possibility for a later press or debate, and at the committee stage it will also be possible to discuss some of the issues. In any event, on the basis of the above, the submitted salad law is supported by the KDNP fraction. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-19-86	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacha. I now give the floor to Mr László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2019-11-19-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, When I looked at the presentation, and when I listened to the head of the Secretary of State, I thought of a sentence, and I just wanted to say, especially after the introduction of Dániel Z. Kárpát, that it could have been written at the end that the refrigerator used in the same place was for sale. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] I really don't want to jest this question, I just really think it's a serious question that there are so many proposals to regulate different situations of life in front of the House that it's very difficult for an opposition representative to decide his voting behaviour in relation to such a law. Because, obviously, the pro-government representatives have said that they support the government in this and many other things, and then, of course, they vote in favour of such proposals, even if, by the way, they regulate matters that are very far from each other. I believe that the possibility could be created, that procedures could be found so that Parliament can take a stand on individual issues in a salad law. So it's not impossible, there must be international examples. I think that this proposal is a very good example of the fact that it has, by the way, very eligible things in it, and my fellow members and opposition colleagues have also talked about such things, elements that can be found in this proposal, but there are also problematic elements in it, and it is obviously very difficult for people to do so. I'll tell you a problematic element, which I'm sure should be better thought out, so that you can decide on your behaviour in this regard: a contract for the exploitation of national assets can be concluded for a period of up to 30 years, so that it can be concluded if the 15 years currently in force are not enough. It's a little subjective, too. Especially at this time of the year, when the legislation is speeding up as Christmas approaches, those proposals, more and more coming before the House, which is conflicting, it makes you wonder who's interested in this. Therefore, such a question cannot be made clear as part of such a proposal. But I could also tell you other elements that I also see as problematic. Of course, measures to reduce illegal gambling are necessary and may need to be deepened here, but when you think about what the government has done in this market or what type of proposals it has made, you think twice about it. But by the way, to tell you something that when I heard it, it was a very positive thing for me, it's a question of railway land formation. However, in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county there are very, very many railway real estates that appear in the real estate register that there is, of course, a railway track in the middle of it, but otherwise we are talking about a huge plot of land and its exploitation for other purposes, the exploitation of the rest of the land, is obviously impossible by this type of real estate registration state, let's say. The fact that the land design will be possible with this new legislation and that the direct line will then go on as a railway track, I think that in our area, too, but probably across the country, there are a lot of areas that can be opened up for other economic purposes or for other purposes. Let us say that the revenue from this, if any, could be used to improve rail transport. This is not provided for in the proposal, but I would just like to say that there are very serious problems with rail transport in Hungary, we have experienced serious problems and delays for years, and several of my fellow Members have spoken about this. I think it is important to manage this, it is a goal to be supported. They are still considering spending the proceeds on railway development. I think this would be a good message for the people of Hungary. [[13.50]] So, it's really hard to take that position. I really didn't want to make fun of you at the beginning, but this is a question we need to talk about. Sometimes we encounter salad laws involving 30-40 billings. Treat this by trying to find a solution so that, where appropriate, a legislative amendment can be made available so that each Member of Parliament can decide on such provisions separately, as these proposals regulate very different situations of life. That's all for now. I will not be lost in the rest, as my other fellow Members have also highlighted areas that may have been closer to him. I'm telling you, there's something very positive, and there's something that, of course, raised more questions in us to answer. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2019-11-19-88	Thank you, Congressman Varga. I now give the floor to Mr László Hajdu, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2019-11-19-89	Dear Secretary of State, Mr. President. Now we know it's a salad law, but we knew it before. I am not in an easy position by the Democratic Coalition to say about this law, because there are a few things that we can support, and I must say that if it were separate, as my fellow Member Z. Carpath mentioned, it would be eligible. It's only the MFB that really likes our eyes. If I may, I would like to say a few words about this bill. One of them, I can say as involved, is the question of railway land. I think that this seems to be a small amendment, and it may, in part, indicate that it is not related to the construction of the Belgrade railway line, because bridges, railways and many things appear here. But I'm thinking a little selfishly of my own constituency, because we're full of railroads, pure MÁV is the whole XV. district. The first Hungarian railway, the line between Pest-Vác, which was delivered in 1846, also stretches there, and this cut off Rákospalota from Újpest. This has become a blow in our history, because earlier on the Danube bank there was the border of Rákospalota, and the debate of the Counts of Károlyi led to the tearing of the trail. He went along the border of the estate, then went back to the Danube bank, and thus Újpest was created in the territory of the other Count, and we stayed in Rákospalota. Then the M3 cut us in half, but there were no Counts there. [[Defiance.]] I mentioned this because there are very significant neglected MÁV estates, 6 kilometers in one direction, 5.5 in the other direction, moving towards Ferihegy airport. At the same time, I always knew in these real estates, and I would be glad to hear from the Secretary of State that these properties were for the purposes of the future development of the old wise designers. Then the railroad was still a serious plan. If we go to Austria, Switzerland or Germany, you see almost nothing but railway developments there, which is expensive, because they were not so far-sighted that they would have tied down MÁV estates a hundred years ago, and now they are building the railway very expensively. And now we're state-owned, and we don't have to buy it. But if we hand these over, and yet the development is made to take my own example, we are waiting for a suburban railway whose plans have been completed, and we are even on the permit plan. You would think that this is a solution funded by the European Union, whether I buy the line from Veresegyháza or Vác, for all of them. In these real estates, we look at the two-meter version of the raggrass, and all kinds of weeds and all kinds of illegal garbage that someday it will be a suburban railway for the purposes of P+R parking and various improvements. But reading the presentation now, I'm afraid that someone who's good enough to build the P+R parking lot will get this property first, and then he'll make a little profit out of it for us. And I just picked up the P+R parking lot, but there could be a lot more, because there are a whole range of service apartments there, which occupy very important land in uninhabitable condition, and they are a lot of complaints. I suppose this is different from administration to administration, but this is what it looks like all over the country, and obviously it needs to be sorted out. Yesterday we dealt with the accounts, and someone suggested that the inventory was not here. A local government makes a closing account, otherwise the State Audit Office will pay very hard, not to mention that the Public Finance Act and the Hungarian Treasury also require that without an inventory of assets, the municipality cannot submit a closing account. There the inventory must be attached every year. We have adopted the state budget by adopting the budget, on the one hand, and on the other, there is never an inventory of assets for the accounts, although it should be one for the accounts. I think we should not delay the fact that the broadening of the powers of the notaries is a good thing, especially because the notaries are currently very dampened by their authority. I would just like to mention one example, although it is not regulated by the law. The national tobacco store is a part of the state within an administrative area, in our case 39 places that no one in the world can control, no notary, no police, no one else. They drink there, they drink there, now the national tobacco store has become a national beverage place, and people drink there all night. The notary has the right to close the bread shop next to it or the pharmacy next to it at any time, but does not even have the right to check the national tobacco store. That's why it would be good if the notaries' previous rights were returned to them. In the past, a tobacco store could easily be controlled by the local authority, today only the national tobacco store is uncontrolled, no one knows what's going on there and has no right to control it, no right to close it. We have the right to write letters, for example, from bottle-drinking, there are a lot of letters in the administration where we write, but I don't have to tell you that a letter of reply will never come. That's about how it goes. So we can support the notary's official initiative. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The thing about bankruptcy and liquidation, which can be read in the law, also seems to be eligible, because we are suffering from it. Due to cases that have been in liquidation for five to six years, district developments are also taking place, although we are not being charged, but there is nothing to do in those areas due to liquidation. I would not detail the amendments to the Development Bank, which we see a lot of danger in. We see a lot of danger in this. The fact that you can guarantee, guarantee and many other things is too sticky for us, we cannot support this. That's all we could contribute. The Democratic Coalition has no objection to the free transfer of wealth. I wanted to add and comment on the T/8033. Law No. 1. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]] [[In the notary seat Dr. László György Lukács will be replaced by Gergely Arató.]]
u2019-11-19-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to speak for two minutes. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Then we'll move on to regular, normal speeches. I would like to speak first of the Jobbik Group to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-11-19-91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We have been used in the past nine years to the fact that Fidesz has submitted its legislative proposals in a way contrary to the legislative law itself, which was created in 2011, given that the legislative law clearly states that only the same conditions of life or clearly interrelated relationships can be regulated in a legislative proposal or bill. [[14.00]] In this way, we could simply get used to Fidesz not complying with its own laws and constantly putting us in the position that, for example, in a salad law such as this one, it regulates conditions of life and in ways that we cannot accept because it is not in the interests of the people. In the meantime, there are also rules that are appropriate, justified and truly serve all that is set out as a goal. We know exactly that this salad law is because Bence Rétvári, Csaba Dömötör, Balázs Orbán and his associates can confront us week after week with the fact that we did not accept any legislative proposal, which was good for which social groups of the people, and we should not criticize, and we should not hold a moral sermon, because we did not vote for it either. Only then do the on-call parrots forget to say that it is most likely that we did not vote because there were 8-10 proposals in the same bill that were not accepted by a normal, democratically emotional Member. That's what the whole salad law story is about, but we're used to it, with two-thirds power, you can easily break your own rules. I would like to comment on the question of state wealth. When Minister Andrea Bártfai-Mager's hearing took place in the Justice Committee, my most important question was that if she now had a minister for state wealth, she would strive to finally have a state wealth inventory, because 30 years was not enough to find out what state wealth is, what it is worth. He said that he promised that we would see a wonderful inventory of wealth within a year, and that we would see the most wonderful inventory of state wealth in the world. Well, I'm looking forward to seeing this year's worth of inventory. I am convinced, by the way, that there is a great chance that we will not see an inventory of assets because we have data from 1990 and 91 on the actual registration and value of state assets. This is also available online. And we can see precisely that if we update the state's assets to their present value and find out what value the state's assets have today, then the conclusion would be that the governments of the last 30 years have managed to liquidate the state's assets. And we can also conclude that if we look at the sovereign debt inherited from the socialist system in 1990 and look at the correlation of that sovereign debt to the Hungarian state's assets, and look at the debt of the Hungarian state today, and maybe finally get to know the structure and value of the state's assets, we could say that a fraction of it does not cover the existing government debt. While it may be that the 1990 inventory and the 1990 government debt, which we say was a crazy debt to the state, that's why the plural democracy and the capitalist journey were good, we might conclude that 30 years must have been a failure. So, I guess that's why we still don't get to know the state's wealth and its value. With regard to the Hungarian Development Bank, this salad law extends the range of beneficiaries to whom the Hungarian Development Bank can provide capital improvement measures, grants, in particular to farmers and family farmers and small business operators. It's absolutely refreshing. Absolutely! We are happy that not only does it support the vast wealth acquired by certain privileged oligarchs, either their acquisition or their operation will reach the Hungarian Development Bank, but also the mere mortals. There's only one thing to remember, and that's why it's not so bad when you're not so young. I was already a lawyer when, in the '90s, after the change of regime, loans were handed over to companies that had neither the volume of an undertaking nor the established cash flow to the reimbursement calculations on which loans could be based. The first banking consolidation became necessary when these loans were not repaid in bulk and, in fact, they almost brought the banking sector to ice, and the taxpayers' money had to provide huge sums of money to the banks to make up for their losses. So I remember this, and I think there are quite a few of us in this House who remember this, and I really don't want the extended group of beneficiaries of the Hungarian Development Bank to bring them to bankruptcy and not to pay back these subsidies. I know, because I can see in the Secretary of State's eyes that it does not have to be so anxious to be a congresswoman; it does not have to be because it should be seen that there is also a passage in this package of proposals, when it talks about the fact that if it can be seen that it is not able to repay the aid with money, then the Hungarian Development Bank will acquire the stake instead, because then it will be in a position of ownership. And then his position over the company will be such that he can influence the return, and there are the conditions in this package of proposals that will result in the Hungarian Development Bank becoming a shareholder in these companies. I am the only one concerned that when the Hungarian Development Bank reached this position, the ownership position would be more at a disadvantage than an advantage. That's why we see that in the economic edge, it's possible to relocate, divide, unite and the rest in no time. So we have a very creative entrepreneurial world in Hungary, and it is easy to distract the attention of a large organization moving relatively more helplessly. The other question I wanted to comment on is the question of railway land formation. In fact, wherever we are in the country, there is something incredibly terrible about the areas being managed by the MÁV. If you are travelling by rail, there is almost no time before your eyes to find areas of MÁV, which are not neglected by the railway track, which are otherwise in terrible condition and which are constantly blessed with vegetation full of different allergens, and to be honest, for at least 20 years, I have longed for the MÁV areas to be held down on the railway tracks and, of course, on the areas of the zone that are necessary for the so-called safety zones along the railway tracks. It's totally fine. Even today, we do not really understand why the other areas are in the management of the MÁV, because it seems that it has nothing to do with them. This goal is absolutely good, be a new category in the real estate register, separate the areas that are not needed for this, and if they have the minimum size of land, they can be added, sold, used as separate property and the rest. Only I am very concerned that this goal will actually be implemented only within or outside the territory of cities or cities, directly in areas related to the city, and it is possible to detach the sites and to undergo separate public or municipal treatment. But I am concerned that the use of these areas will not be realised in general, because perhaps, on the bottom of Csajágbög, businesses do not really want to buy separated MÁV areas, because there is nothing to do. After all, a company that can be created there is not so profitable, it does not have such a possibility of return. It is likely that the business circles that have looked at a good number of real estate in the MÁV area are in the interest of this legislative package. I would very much like it if I were wrong and you could stand up, say, in a year and a half, and tell me that you were very spiteful, because, well, we have done the land-selections, we have created the new plots, we have announced them for recovery; and, by miracle, everywhere we have done this, they have been used, and they have been created by particular production companies, or they have been created for the common purpose of our people's prosperity. [[14.10]] I would be very happy if I were right, and it was certainly not a proposal for legislation to prepare land speculation. I wanted to add this to this proposal with my fellow Members. I would not be able to decide at this moment how to respond to this proposal: yes, you are not abstaining; I think that is still too fluid for all of us. We still have something to think about, because we do not want to be able to serve good goals, but we do not want to be able to vote on something that will prove to have served a very different individual interest, rather than the purpose set in writing. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-19-92	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Mihály Witzmann, from the Fidesz Group, is next to speak again. Here you go.
u2019-11-19-93	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I basically believe that I have listened to opposition reactions here, and I think I understand the logic that the speakers have tried to point out unanimously, whether my fellow Member Daniel Z. Karpát or my fellow Member László Varga, but I can still say that my fellow Member László Hajdu referred to this amendment of the salad law. I agree with these basically, because it took me several hours to read this package of laws, and I also had to prepare myself for the speech by the lead speaker on the topics that I have just mentioned. So I understand the logic absolutely, and to some extent I can accept it from them, because indeed we can talk about a very, very wide spectrum, a very, very many, indeed ten legislative amendments, a legislative package or a legislative amendment package, or debate here in the House of the country today. I would like to point out, in principle, that, in recent years, the salad law has been trying to become a kind of curse word within the Parliament's horseshoe. The opposition is always trying to make this look bad, trying to attribute to him some pejorative content, meaning or meaning. However, I would just like to draw attention to all of the fact that, once again, I agree with the idea that, according to some logic, when the parties that are currently in opposition were in government in this country, there was a concept within the Parliament that salad law, so there was one such thing as trying to put in front of this House a bunch of legislative amendments that could be made in the form of a package and a parliamentary debate. I am not a lawyer, but I think that if we look at these legislative proposals, it does make sense that, in terms of both content and operational mechanisms and legislation, we are still talking about legislative amendments that are in close connection with each other, in line with each other and have an impact on each other. These were included in a bouquet in fact by the author. In order to discuss these in the form of a salad law, we have often experienced them in general debates, or perhaps we are discussing them separately, I think that this must be a procedural or procedural issue. However, I am very, very pleased that I have heard in several speeches that the legislation and legislation on the construction of railway real estate, which is precisely advocated by an important amendment of this salad law, and that its exploitation for economic purposes is fundamentally a good thing, even the opposition considers it to be a good thing. Personally, as I said in my speech to the lead speaker, I also see a number of areas in my own district, Somogy County, Somogyland, where, on the one hand, I think that this new legislation can eliminate disorderly situations, and can also promote the emergence of a more orderly, beautiful image from an aesthetic point of view. On the other hand, it can also reduce expenditure on the maintenance, maintenance, maintenance and operation of real estate, and if they are placed on a separate location number and used for some economic purpose, I think that this will also bring revenue in the future. This is certainly positive, so I continue to ask my honourable Members to support this proposal with their votes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-19-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'm asking you, someone's asking for a two-minute speech. [[No signal.]] No, we'll go to the next round. To speak again from the Jobbik Group, I would like to address Mr Dániel Z. Kárpat. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-11-19-95	Mr President, Dear House, Just to understand what I have debated about the basis of this debate, why we cannot debate national and state wealth in substance without a national inventory: in the first instance, because the two concepts do not overlap, so that state wealth is not equal to national wealth, and on the other hand, I have the Hungarian nation's Saturday, August 17, 2019, where the article concerned was posted at 6:45 a.m.: The Hungarian state's wealth has increased by HUF 7 thousand billion since 2010. This statement does not appear, but boasts that since 2010, national wealth has increased by around 70 percent, which is already in the lead; so the title and the article's introduction already contain different and non-equivalent concepts. Then what is more surprising is that the press department of the Minister without a wallet responsible for national property informed the Hungarian nation that he considered the size of the state and national assets. Finally, it turns out during the reading of the article that the total value of shares recorded in companies is being examined, which is far from equivalent to the totality, shares and production possibilities of a nation's assets, so there is a total confusion even in the pro-government press. Let us be honest with you, for the sake of fairness, the opposition press is not always able to overcome this confusion in terms of its performance. So I would consider it an acceptable methodology if a national wealth inventory were to be put on the table, we would have the necessary debates on this, and on this basis the debates on the proposals that we are currently conducting would become much simpler. Let me give you one more thought, my Fidesz fellow Member, as to why we are afraid of seeing state or former assets, real estate, where appropriate, in MNV management or other new owners, and I am not thinking at all about the religious dimension of this story, but, let us say, the fate of the MÁV buildings. If only one or two press reports are under review, we can see again that MNV Zrt sells its holiday resorts in Balaton at auction. The total value of first-stage resorts exceeds two and a half billion. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Then we will find articles on trust communications that state assets that have escaped privatisation processes and then these high-value real estates will be bid in packages. At MNV Zrt., this is an existing market form, it bids them in packages and sells investment property packages at several speeds. We don't have an investment problem on our own. We have a problem with the fact that the Hungarian national property or previously state property mass is placed in private hands for investment purposes, so that the Hungarian State is supposed to lose a huge amount of these funds. It is clear that MNV Zrt. cannot be blamed on its own, because it is a profile-cleaning strategy, and they are trying to pass on assets that are difficult to pass on or not so liquid in blocks at auctions to those who are likely to be able to use market instruments. When any state property, national wealth participation, is re-used and transferred to the hands of another owner, such fears arise in many of the opposition representatives, that it would be advisable to use the term "false misrepresentation" here again, but not necessarily in the most efficient way. So, in the long term, I can say that our 30-year experience is now the basis for the fears that began with spontaneous privatisation. In this respect, I am even arguing with my fellow Members or fellow Members in my own political group, and I claim that there has not been a change of regime in Hungary, because the net corruption mechanisms and channelling methods that were previously found continued in the 1990s. The first Orbán government must have slowed down at this pace, there was much less property, and perhaps there was not so much intention of debauching it. [[14.20]] But what we can see is that while the Hungarian nation reports that the state's national wealth has increased by 70 percent since 2010, our entire plant oil industry, our entire energy sector is there, foreigners, aliens, our factories are there. If you went down Váci Road long ago, the units and facilities there gave jobs to tens of thousands of people within a subway station area. Everything today belongs to foreigners. In these circumstances, when Hungary became a assembly plant, it is simply irresponsible to talk about the fact that according to some people the state's wealth has increased by one and a half times or even more. I understand that you are thinking of corporate shareholdings; you will explain this, but the main decision between us would be to have the national wealth inventory here, and to find out in black and white how much our family silver is, because it is not Fidesz-KDNP's, it is not the property of the opposition, but of all Hungarian citizens, it is our duty to know how much it is, how many forints it is, but what growth prospects it offers for the near future. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-19-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask my fellow Members, who else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[On Dr. János Fónagy's signal:]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-11-19-97	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me first of all to thank you for the statement of opinion, which forms part of the speech of almost all my opposition fellow Members, that they have said that they have found elements that they can support in this truly several packages, which I believe are otherwise linked. So allow me, perhaps, to answer a little longer than usual, hoping that I can answer the questions raised here, which, at this stage of the debate, convinces my fellow Members that this package of proposals is worth supporting. The compilation of the package itself, as my lead speaker said here, is essentially justified by the fact that it is a question of such or some element of the management of state wealth under the supervision of a minister. So the concerns that I'm already using the term "salad law" have its own internal cohesion and its own internal cohesion. I'm trying, and I apologize for not answering by name, but by subject, because there were several similar points. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát mentioned it in the first place, but several mentioned the inventory. I would like to make it clear to you that I am very confident that you will agree that this is not a static state, that it is constantly changing, coming to it and going from it, so that, in a moment or two, this condition can be stiffened. You are absolutely right, my fellow Member, that precise conceptual definitions must be applied here, because the conceptual scope of state assets that belong to them is different, since they are not only real estate, but also movable property, economic business shares, property rights and many other things, the value of these elements itself changes at a certain moment, as they are recorded at a different rate, or their market value, let us say, changes to one property. By the way, there is an inventory of countries, I dictate: országleltar.gov.hu, accessible to everyone, we have it, it is a guide. I am convinced that this will, in principle and in my hope, provide both citizens and fellow Members with up-to-date information on the issue of state property registration and wealth. The other issue raised by others, but I say to Mr Hajdu in particular about the MFB, has been said by several people that the MFB has been entitled to guarantee and guarantee contracts so far, the bill merely expands the scope of these relations in relation to the contract of sale and financial leasing. Both were raised by market demands. So we're expanding an existing legal institution, an existing option. On the same subject, Mrs Varga-Damm Andrea has raised the possibility of amending the MFB Act to finance investment funds for credit and capital in view of the growing presence of investment funds on the market. Which, and let me say here, I think I've preceded you in terms of legal practice, not a pleasure and not a glory, so I remember that those bank failures that you were talking about weren't connected to us, they weren't caused by us, we didn't make them up, they were created before, during, after the change of regime. There is no doubt that these opportunities are included in all banking activities, and I ask that Hungarian legislation does not take on its shoulders a hump that does not belong to us. Please remember the U.S. real estate bankruptcy, where a civil society supposedly operating on market terms for 200 years has failed along with its banks so that its smoke and flames have vanished all the way to Europe, so this is not a domestic specialty. For many hundred years, banking has had the possibility of speculation and failure in this regard. I do not want to, and my fellow Members have also said very carefully, please, the situation with the Mád Synagogue and the rabbinical House is that it has been church-owned for two hundred years, so it is not about the sale of state property, but about the return of church property. By the way, the fact that we put it in this package has only one reason why the Mád Synagogue as a monument is annexed to the Law on State Property, so that it cannot be passed by government decision, as is the case with other, otherwise numerous, ecclesiastical real estate transfers that have taken place over the last few years as property supplied to many other churches, whether for religious, social or health purposes. Only that this state wealth law, if I remember correctly, is included in Annex 2 as property, which is why it had to be amended by law, but I cannot say that this is not about the transfer of state property, but about the return of church property. A change of 15 years for a fixed period of 30 years has been raised by several of my fellow Members. This has a very practical purpose. Investment has an increasing cost requirement and investors do not see their invested money return on the 15-year recovery option and therefore the 30-year legal term should be guaranteed. I will also return or mention the railway: for example, in the development of many billions of railway stations, it is not possible to find an investor with 15 years of exploitation. Almost all my fellow Members have dealt with it, and I must say that in support of the issue of railway real estate. In order to convince you, allow me to clarify the very practical and fundamental issue of this. In other words, this means that it is 8-8 meters from the railway axis that is protected, and what is inalienable, we are talking about the stock of the tribe, the stock of the railway, which is inaccessible. [[14.30]] There are a number of properties that are outside that. The Prime Minister once took me up in a helicopter twenty years ago, when I was a Minister of Transport, and he showed me the areas you considered neglected, which he thought should have been used by the railway 25 years ago. It contains what the Member, Mr Mayor, said that the railway was very protective of these areas, and until its medium- and long-term development plans were developed, he sought to protect these areas in a professional way that was completely understandable. I am convinced that, today, the Hungarian railway, as well as Hungarian public transport, has reached the point that it has medium- and long-term plans that are capable of delimiting areas that may be considered as areas of development in the coming decades, and that when we ask for a vote on the legal possibility of disengagement, it means that, on the basis of these existing plans, you have also indicated that the line allowed at the suburban lines is not even one or more lines, so that these plans will be available for the profession and the government of the time will be able to use these areas which you have neglected today, also neglected, for the benefit of the public, regardless of whether the interior or outside area or where it is located, so such distinctions are not included in the proposal. Excuse me, one second. Yes, still Mr Hajdu: I would like to make a note of this, only here, although my fellow Members have also tried to debate how should I say this? Let me keep it professional, but let me say that, 30-40-50 years ago, our predecessors were smart, and on the outer edge of Budapest P+R parking lots were designated, and who knows why you know the dates, I know the names of the then regent prime ministers and ministers, and I also know them with shopping halls, all of them, the Örs leader square, all of them. Look at Budapest's development plan 40 years ago, it was all P+R parking, so it's not our fault. At the same time, I fully agree that, once these have been incorporated, new ones should be designated even in these areas. How timely it is for us to do this, it is my task to establish a single Community transport agenda, which is essential to coordinate rail and bus transport, and to put these stops in one place. Today, a very practical problem is that bus parking and bus turns can usually be carried out in railway areas, as the railway has had loading areas and storage sites that are suitable for other areas that can be used for other purposes, for example, for the storage of buses, for the establishment of bus stops, for the creation of bus turns. One more: the inheritance, and there's a 150-year-old inheritance here. The congressman may remember, although this was a stone mine thing, please remember that in the case of the Jancsi colony, where there were 300 places of service, what we suffered together, regardless of the party's position, to create a viable, normal apartment for hundreds of people who are otherwise retired, with a small pension, for the future as well, otherwise, of their own property. Property inventory, country inventory, former bank failures... one last thing. I can't bring up such specifics, but I do know that over the last ten years, this government has typically bought back state assets, bought back power plants, bought back service providers, bought back storages. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] Sometimes we bought it back for very expensive money that our ancestors used to waste. I therefore believe that, in the last nine years, there has been a substantial increase in public wealth and, unlike previous practice, there has been no reduction. I hope that we will continue to do so in the future. Therefore, I would like to thank you once again for the supporting comments, and I very much hope that you have no doubts, and I therefore ask you to support the draft in the vote. Mr President, thank you for your patience.
u2019-11-19-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear House, We now have a general debate on the bill to amend individual laws in relation to defence issues until closure. Government referral T/8029. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, I give the floor to Szilárd Németh, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-11-19-99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, Security is a fundamental interest for all of us. We can say that our country is one of the safest countries in Europe today, and the Hungarian Defence Forces have a key role to play in preserving this. When Fidesz-KDNP took over government in 2010, it found shameful conditions around the defence house. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: You're lying!]] Let me remind you of that in a broad sense. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Don't remind me.]] As a result of the amok run called force reform by the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments, only 17 people were reserveers of our country in 2010. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes. Lőrinc Nacsa: Vadai was the Secretary of State!]] From 2002 to 2010, the number of 45,000 soldiers authorised [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Sure! Sure.]] He fell below 29 thousand, the low was in 2007 [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Sure!]] when the number of Hungarian defences has barely reached 23,500. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It was Vadai!]] Annual budget of the Ministry of Defence from 2002 to 2010 [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] dropped from 1.5 per cent of GDP to 1.1 per cent [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] and, during this period, the records of the martial law were also completely destroyed. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's not true! Well, that's not true. He's lying!]] During the regency of socialist governments, the Hungarian Defence Forces were effectively reduced regularly, methodically and consciously. 50,000 different military equipment [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: The speaker has gone mad!]] And they took out military supplies, and they went on about it. During this period, the Hungarian Defence Office abolished 50 military organizations, including health and educational institutions. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Military Hospital!]] The military has practically lived up to its stocks, and there is no plan to replace the professional materials. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: The pacel should be dealt with rather than the army.]] In the field of skills, the Vadai Agnes also followed the policy of extermination. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We should make pacal instead of the army. Intercoms from the opposition. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: But he doesn't know how to do that either. The president's ringing the bell.]] This was the result of the Hungarian Army's artillery, the mechanized shooting ability was converted into light shooting ability, and the tactical, technical and combat helicopter capabilities were also severely damaged, and the reconnaissance forces were disproportionately dismantled. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Jesus!]] The Juhász-Szekeres-Vadai-era [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Oh, yeah!]] almost completely squandered the assets of the military, extracted from the system some 500 track-laying combat vehicles, mid-grade jet training aircraft for pilot training, which form the backbone of the mechanized shooting ability [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai to the president. Let's get down to business.]] the missile complexes of the military's air defense capability. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] 77 of the renovated and modernized T-72 types of tanks were given away, and most of the tractors were sold. With more than 140 refurbished and modernized self-propelled artillery devices, the Hungarian Army was virtually thrown back into the era of the so-called machine-drawn artillery. [[14.40]] They left the soldiers' salaries untouched, so by the end of the decade, they put the families of the soldiers in an unworthy position. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's not true!]] The Orbán government has settled this unworthy situation as soon as possible after 2010. [[Depreciation in the ranks of MSZP and DK.]] For us, the future of military families and the army is important. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] This is why the first step in modernisation was to settle the salary of soldiers and to ensure the future of military families through the launched career model. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes.]] Despite all the inherited difficulties, we have started a major development work, and we have developed the plans for which the Zrínyi 2026 [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] a defence and military development programme is being built, which has already had visible results. That's why I've got all this hooting behind my back. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: You would know what they're doing behind your back!]] Allow me to tell you some important facts about the state of defence today. We have placed the man, the soldier, at the centre of the program, to carry out their responsible service with modern equipment, NATO-compatible training, modern military technology, decent conditions and competitive pay. The program was designed to complete the renewal of individual equipment. In order to implement the programme, we have doubled the defence budget compared to 2010 [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: That's not true!]] which will reach HUF 616 billion in 2020. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's not true!]] We have launched a defence career system that provides a wide range of soldiers. The last increase in the salary of soldiers was in 2002. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's not true!]] Following a 50 percent increase in salaries in recent years, we are once again recognising the service of soldiers with a worthy, competitive income. After the years of barracks closure and decommissioning, we have made the defence profession attractive again, so the army has now increased by 15 percent compared to 2010. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's not true! On paper! The president's ringing the bell.]] Our main goal is to create and maintain a modern army of 30,000 active and 20,000 reserve soldiers. But a modern army cannot exist without modern means. Development and modernisation processes affect all areas of the Air Force and the Land Forces, but the logistics, military health and management systems are renewed. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: There's something to be said about the law. The president's ringing the bell.]] The development of the air force is also an important element in the development of forces. Yesterday we saw it on the news. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: That's it! From the news! They won't show us! There's something to hide, I'm sure.]] That two copies of the H145M helicopter had arrived, which had already been completed, and which the soldiers had already taken possession of. These have been equipped with scouting capabilities, counter-and transport capabilities, and these new helicopters are also capable of carrying out not only military purposes but also civilian targets, so-called disaster control tasks. In May 2019, Airbus announced that the Hungarian government will set up a joint helicopter manufacturing plant with the Gyula component manufacturing plant, which will lead to the production of rotating parts in Hungary, and will manufacture these rotating parts here in Gyula for all Airbus products. Our land units are growing, as the first Leopard 2A4 for training arrives in Hungary in the second half of 2020 and in 2023 the most modern Leopard 2A7 + tanks manufactured exclusively for us. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: It has nothing to do with the law!]] Thanks to the design and development processes launched in 2010, the technical tools of the Hungarian Defence Office are growing, modernizing and expanding, not rejected, but the XXI. In a forward-looking manner appropriate to the needs of the century. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We should stop talking because it has nothing to do with the law!]] The voluntary reserve system set up in 2011 and adapted to changed security conditions [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: All we need is people to run it!]] Today, not 17 people, but about 9,000 Hungarians have undertaken to provide the country with an armed service, not giving up its civilian life, as a reserve soldier, if necessary. The new instruments have been accompanied by the building of skills and organisational structures that meet the challenges of the age since 2010. While socialist-liberal governments have closed the barracks, eliminated military organizations, leaving entire capabilities to lose, in recent years the abilities and institutions of the Hungarian Defence Forces have been fundamentally renewed. On 1 January 2019 the Hungarian Defence Command was established [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Oh!]] , which will make the leadership of the defence more effective. The special operational capability, which was set up by the 21st EDF, has become a Brigade-level organisation. One of the most important skills centers of the century's warfare. As an independent organization, the formation of the Military Police Center has brought new skills into the life of the Hungarian Defence Service, which means military police knowledge that can be applied in a real, international environment. The reconnaissance system has become unified for greater security in the country. To eliminate cyberspace attacks [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: About the law! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: It's not the law, Mr. President. Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Press conference...! Dr. Agnes Vadai: Press conference! I could say something like that. The president's ringing the bell.]] preparation for cyber training... [[The president's gonna turn off the Secretary of State's mic.]]
u2019-11-19-100	Excuse me for a minute, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen of the Vadai and of the Congressman Varga-Damm! Please don't yell at me very nicely, because poor Tamás Bellozó, as much as he tries to ride his bike behind you, he just can't catch up with yelling at you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] So I'm asking you to make it possible for Mr. Secretary of State to say all the things [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Mr. President, you have not said a word about the law!]] He wants to tell me in his expo. Here you go.
u2019-11-19-101	Mr. President, every sentence I've ever said has been about the law. In addition to the renewal of the army's institutional system, we have rebuilt the institutions of officer and petty officer training from the foundations. In order to eliminate the former vulnerable situation, we revived the domestic defence industry, with which the creation of a capacity at national level began. We have established the firearms manufacturing plant on our home base, and we have once again taken into our own hands the production of individual soldiers' weapons, including machine rifles, machine guns and handguns, but the plant is able to serve the needs of all domestic armed organizations, create jobs and create research and development capacity. In addition to the firearms manufacturing plant, the establishment of a domestic based ammunition and powder factory is also planned. The development of the Hungarian army is also acknowledged by our allies. We can also boast of the purchase of Austrian military company by the Hungarian State, which includes the acquisition of the knowledge necessary for the operation and corresponds to the XXI. The military technology needs of the century. The funds spent on force reform are in national interest and thus contribute to the development of the domestic economy. They create new jobs in regions where large investments are needed in order to ensure the livelihood of Hungarian families. Hungary is one of the safest countries today, thanks to Hungarian soldiers serving at home, borders and foreign missions. The soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces in the EU, NATO and UN peace operations missions help solve problems and conflicts locally so that they cannot reach Europe and our country. In 14 countries on 4 continents, 1200 Hungarian soldiers serve to establish and maintain stability in conflict-stricken regions, helping to solve local causes of mass illegal migration and to fight terrorism. Close to 200 of our well-prepared soldiers work in the headquarters of the United Nations, the EU and NATO. The priority of defence, as I have already mentioned, is also reflected in the budget for next year. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Steal again!]] The HM budget increases by HUF 103,3 billion compared to 2019, which is worth HUF 616 billion. In 2020, a significant part of the expenditure, some HUF 216 billion, is linked to the developments that have already been undertaken in the framework of the programme of defence and force development in Zrínyi 2026. Dear fellow Members, Our Christian Values [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Oh! Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: And where are the Muslims?]] In order to protect our national sovereignty and to safeguard our security, it is essential to operate a powerful force committed to its country. In order to protect Hungary, to guarantee its security, and to prepare our soldiers and instruments, we also need the commitment of the citizens of Hungary. After all, the constitutional duty of all Hungarian citizens, the protection of the country, is a common responsibility of all of us. [[14.50]] Of course, there will still be no military duty. However, proper preparation during the peace period is essential for our security. This is why it was important to increase the age limit for potential combatants from 40 to 50 years. Raising the age limit by ten years will increase by approximately 850 thousand people, increasing the number of people who can be called in under the special legal order under the military obligation. It is also necessary to take into account the decline in the population of Europe as a whole, including our country, due to the decline in birth rates, which results in a steady decline in the number of men of war. However, once again, this change does not mean a draft or a mandatory reserve system, it is only applicable in the case of a special legal order. The successful operation of the Hungarian Defence Forces requires fine-tuning of the legal environment in addition to procurement and development. We are working to strengthen the Hungarians' sense of security and provide appropriate responses to the new types of cyber-related challenges and hybrid threats as well. The aim of the bill is to increase Hungary's defence capabilities and make peace preparation more effective. In fulfilling our duties, we must not forget the eternal words of Lajos Kossuth:.Home is eternal and we are obliged not only to what is, but also to what can and will be. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill tabled. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-11-19-102	Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I'm talking primarily about the two lady warriors back there. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: There are three of us women here, Mr. President.]] Don't make this debate of Parliament frivolous, I see that you are trying to do this. I would like to inform Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm that at the end of the speeches she has the opportunity to make her point of order. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: I take it back!]] And now we're going to have the keynote speakers. First, I give the floor to Congressman György Hubay, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-19-103	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Allow me to present to you the position of the Fidesz faction on the item on the agenda. Even at the time of reading the bill, you could see that a serious, well-thought-out and detailed bill was presented to the Honourable Parliament. This could not have been otherwise, because it is an important bill for our country, our nation, our entire society, because the protection of this country is a civic duty for all of us. It is a pleasure to see that, on a significant scale over the last few years, the Hungarian Defence Forces and Hungary's defence capabilities have evolved to an unprecedented extent since the launch of the. The government policy of the last narrow decade is the exact opposite of total army destruction during socialist-free democrat governments. [[Intercoms from the opposition. The president's ringing the bell.]] Luckily, only those who once brutally destroyed the Hungarian Defence Forces can sit in opposition benches. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Me? Brutal? Me?]] Our tools, if not sold to foreign hands and reduced the number of volunteers to zero. Conversely, in 2010 a change of perspective [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I'm glad you're here, Congressman Simicskó.]] has taken place in the field of defence policy. We have increased the number of volunteers to thousands of people, we are constantly changing and developing our tools and infrastructure, and we are also trying to do everything we can to ensure the financial appreciation of soldiers. In particular, the already mentioned defence and military development programme is a major step forward, since such capacity development has probably never taken place in the history of modern-day Hungary. Hungary is one of the safest countries today not only within Europe, but also world-class, and Budapest is one of the safest cities. It also has a huge role to play in the government's multi-annual, determined, purposeful work and in its defence and law enforcement policy. And one of the greatest thanks to our soldiers, our police officers, who have allowed us to say this about ourselves and have contributed to the protection of European Christian culture and Hungary's sovereignty, and have stopped the illegal flood of migrants storming our southern border, and have also maintained the country's internal order. The country's security is our fundamental national interest. It is the duty of the Hungarian Defence Agency to preserve and establish security as laid down in the Fundamental Law. As the general justification for the bill states, Hungary's security rests on three pillars: the capabilities of the Hungarian Defence Service, the federal cooperation and the patriotic commitment of its citizens. The matrix of all of these contributes to building a safe and strong Hungary together, along with protecting our Christian values. We, Members of Parliament, must give all the support that the Hungarian Defence Forces must have in order to become a modern, powerful, committed army to their country, which, in turn, can become the decisive or leading force of the region and its armed forces. This requires continuous improvement of our capabilities, enhanced technical preparedness, active preparation and, last but not least, fine-tuning of the domestic legislative environment, along well-thought-out strategies. It is clear that, in order to strengthen our dominant role in the region, we are also taking on an increasingly important role in addressing threats in international space as a member of NATO and of the European Union and the UN. The bill also addresses today's increasingly important issue. In order to increase the defence capability, the bill regulates action against cyber threats and government coordination against hybrid threats. It is important to stress that there will continue to be no compulsory military force, the bill serves only to prepare for the special legal order. Let us conclude, therefore, that defence is a national issue, as part of which Hungary is building on its commitment to home and its sacrifice. I don't want to repeat myself, but it's our duty as citizens to protect the country. In a state of emergency declared by the Fundamental Law and the Parliament, or in the previous defence situation, men of Hungarian nationality, who are resident in Hungary, who are qualified as reserve holders or potential military bounds, are bound to serve as military servants. The proposal before us is a very consistent and forward-looking goal of making peacetime preparations more effective without any additional obligations for citizens. It is proposed that during the peace period, persons subject to the military obligation can be classified into two categories. On the one hand, the trained reserve manager, who is the person subject to the military obligation who has been out of the army and has performed military service on the basis of volunteering, and, on the other hand, the potential military dependent person who is any citizen under the military obligation who does not belong to the trained reserve category. [[15.00]] In order to prepare professionally, the bill seeks to ensure that an organisation manages the data of all persons who are trained reserve managers or potential military commanders. The keeping of records during a peace period means the implementation of planning for military service under the military obligation in such a way that the enlisting centres have as accurate information as possible at the beginning of the task as to which military service is to be used or to which position and specialty are to be required. In this way, military organisations will receive the most appropriate military personnel on the basis of their duties, qualifications, qualifications and professional experience, as quickly as possible, in order to minimise the number of military personnel required to carry out this task. The legislator's clear aim is to detect persons who are certainly not or may not be invited to military service following the introduction of a military commitment. Ladies and gentlemen, As you can all see, the government is no longer thinking about the military and destructive philosophy of pre-2010, but rather the logic of renewal, capacity development, appreciation and preparation, so that we can respond decisively to an unexpected situation and become the leading force in the region. There is a great achievement behind us, and in recent years, it is enough to mention only the protection of our southern border area, where we have stood hard against the hundreds of thousands of illegal migrants and have defended our country. We must not give up these achievements, and we must continue to keep Hungary an independent, independent and Christian-based country ready to defend itself at any time, in any situation. I hope that achieving these important goals, regardless of party standing, will be a common minimum for all my fellow Members, so that they will support the adoption of the bill. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Oh, no.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-11-19-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker for the Jobbik Group is Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm, who is speaking here from the platform. I ask for the service of the hall and then bring up water to the congresswoman, because she was having difficulty speaking. Please, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-11-19-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First, I would like to send a message to my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, so that he does not hesitate to ask why I am coming up here. Because my papers are harder to keep there, and since my eyes aren't so good, it's the best distance to focus on the font size. That's why I'm used to speaking from here. Having clarified this issue, I would like to say that under the current rules of the House, the President-in-Office of the Council should have withdrawn the floor from the rapporteur, given that he has not said a single word about the bill. [[Sándor Font: Of course, because you yelled at me!]] He didn't say a word about the bill...
u2019-11-19-106	Madam Congresswoman, do not make my criticism, because you can only criticise me in the form of a point of order under the house rules, and then I am forced to withdraw from the floor.
u2019-11-19-107	It had to be mentioned, but I am very pleased that György Hubay, our Fidesz fellow Member, presented the text of the law and the position of Fidesz instead of the Secretary of State. I believe that this bill is definitely linked to the T/8031, which we will then discuss. It is most likely the result of an agreement within the government. They're putting forward a legislative amendment that actually gives society the impression that they're going to maintain a war situation on a permanent basis, while the consideration for this is that the Ministry of Defence is giving up coordination of procurements. That's what the 8031 proposal will be about. I must say that I was shocked at the presentation by the State Secretary to hear about the fantastic support the government has given to defence after the Socialist Government. I will tell you that in the very first year, when I was there, the defence budget fell by 42 percent from one year to the next, I was present with Mr István Simicskó, then Secretary of State, in addition to Minister Csaba Hende, who was extremely humiliatingly obliged to suffer for the government's contempt of this organization at the time of the takeover of an army, which was otherwise in a state that had been ripped apart. Up until 2015, his budget for the defence wallet has been steadily reduced. The government started lining up the defence wallet when the migration threat occurred and finally realized, Prime Minister, that this area should be supported, especially by a national government. Therefore, this must be added to the reality. I would respond so much to the State Secretary's proposal that in the same way as in health care, tools and buildings have actually been renewed and there is, but there is one thing missing, the human resource, which can run it the way it should. That should also be mentioned. I also remember that for many years the wallet begged the government to sell incurrency and not to cost tens of millions of forints a year just to store and guard them, not to mention soil pollution. That is what I wanted to add to the presentation by the Secretary of State. I have a very bad feeling about this bill, and I think that I am not alone. [[Németh Szilárd István: Na!]] I am convinced that this bill is not about what the explanatory statement contains. At a level like this, he's sacrificing the national theme of defence on the altar of various personal, intergovernmental battles, which, I think, cannot be done with a people. It involves the importance of cyber security in this problem or this war, which cannot be disputed, as there is no international forum, no NATO Conference, no NATO Parliamentary Assembly, no ministerial meeting, no important meeting or conference where this would not be taken seriously as a number one threat in all parts of the world, and we do not yet know that it is appropriate, but it is likely to be appropriate, to set up appropriate countermeasures and organisations. There is no question that there is no responsible politician in Hungary today who does not support the fact that cyber security is a top priority issue and that all organisational and financial instruments and political support must be given, since any country can be paralysed by interfering with these systems. But it's nothing, but it has nothing to do with wanting to make a society subject to war as described in this legislation. It was weird for us that they raised the age limit to 50 years when, if you look around a little in this country, you see that today's men in the 50s are generally not fit to... [[István Szilárd Németh: I object! You're kidding. I'm 56!]] I'm telling you, in general, I'm not talking about the people here, in general. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] I'm not talking about people living in prosperity, I'm talking about those people. [[István Szilárd Németh: Those who destroyed the army, hide!]] who have neither the environment nor the food [[The president's ringing the bell.]] , and the available sports culture is not suitable for them to... And not to mention the hard work that life has brought them. They're not fit! I don't want to say anything to Mr. Secretary of State, but I haven't seen you in the last 20 years doing a job of a kind that could have made your health worse than an ordinary working man. So I'm asking you very nicely, not to start with yourself, because it shows that you're not representing the nation and society, you're representing yourself. I memorized that. [[István Szilárd Németh: I also noted what you said and wrote it down.]] So what is written in this proposal is a double-edged weapon. What's he saying? He says he's already trying to figure out who wouldn't be fit to take action. I can only tell you one thing. In this House there have been at least eight speeches and Bence Rétvári responses in the last year and a half, where Secretary of State Bence Rétvári spoke about the fact that the opposition's view that Hungarian society has a very poor state of health is that life expectancy is significantly less, as this is supported by statistical data. [[István Szilárd Németh: That's the lie!]] as in most European countries. I can tell you to do this. Feel free to do it. Do you know what the result is? The result will be pitiful, because professionals who do this will not be subject to war against people who, by reason of their health or psychic condition, are not. And then we'll get the real statistics that the Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, won't brag about, that it will indeed be this system of instruments that will get the nail out of the bag, and we will finally see that this society is not as healthy and in no way as large a number as you can imagine today. In this legislative proposal, the question of the exercise of ownership will be changed. In 2010, this was already the case at the beginning of the second Orbán government, then we had a very detailed discussion with MNV Zrt., as MNV Zrt. wanted to exercise its ownership powers even then. It is now likely to be the responsibility of the Minister for State Property. [[15.10]] But one thing is certain: they gave up this plan even then because it is unthinkable that for each company of defence interest, this entity exercising ownership will assign a professional group that could fully support and exhaust the full specialities of defence companies. It was already discovered that a huge number of professionals would have to be recruited into the organization only to be able to exercise these powers of ownership in accordance with its purpose, and it is no coincidence that this is now, after nine years, before us in the House, because this is practically, I would say, a border of violence that is likely to be taken away from the defence wallet. I believe that there is no reason for this, just as it was before, because if the system of defence is indeed as special as we all know, and this is regularly said in the House, then I think that the exercise of ownership on this issue must remain with the Minister. I was completely shocked when the Secretary of State spoke about the fact that this new third Orbán government is now the one that then embraces the need for development, how it makes national defence itself a truly national issue. You have also ruled for the past eight years, it is true that I believe that in your capacity it is impossible to compare the activities of Hende or the defence wallet under Simicskó's ministership compared to what has been there since last May. I cannot hide the fact that we are simply at this point today that every month legislative proposals are coming in that show that there is some serious professional work going on here, even though there is nothing more to it than the imagery of some kind of power struggle in the legislative proposals. 2018-2022. parliamentary term Budapest, Tuesday, 19 November 2019 94/2. Number Parliamentary Diary It's a matter of state of emergency. So far, the legislative provisions have dealt with the need to declare this state of emergency in accordance with the Fundamental Law on grounds of armed or offensive incidents, and now this proposal introduces a similar measure in the event of cyber attacks. There really is no problem with this in itself, because it is at least one of those things, and it may even be able to do more damage to such an attack than an armed conflict. But I think that the kind of amendment to the proposal that came into this House is an exaggeration, a kind of domination of citizens' freedoms and scope that we cannot even control in any way. After all, attacks in cyberspace are computer signals, and it does not appear that the water may be shut off, that the gas supply will cease to exist, that there will be no obvious consequences for everyone, and that, using this rule, the state of emergency can be declared at any time, without justification, and that in the world of the sky, there will be no consequences. This proposal installs coordination on civilian preparedness to the defence organisation. I am pleased about one thing: it is very likely that Mr Bakondi is not happy about this. So I think that in this battle Mr Bakondi has lost, which I do not regret so much, because I think that the leadership of disaster management is literally a disaster. So I really don't mind if he doesn't have any authority. All I can hope for is that you'll be in the right place at the defense wallet. According to the proposal, the defence department should also be appointed on the proposal of the Minister for Defence in the company operating under the majority influence of the Hungarian State as a shareholder of ownership rights. This truly complicated sentence is that each company needs a defence rapporteur, because this legislative proposal or this amending proposal creates economic mobilisation. So imagine, each company needs a defense officer. It is a big question whether there are so many professionals, there is extra money, there is, they can set up an organizational unit everywhere, there is a collaborating organisation, because they do not have to work for themselves, they just have to work for their own convenience. There are already an awful number of government employees without the actual results. What was the tree about in 2010? That we need to significantly reduce the number of employees in the government. In fact, the reduction started in 2010, and then, as of 2012, there is an incredible upheaval, which has now resulted in twice as many government officials as there were in 2010. The proposal states that mayors with military knowledge may not necessarily have powers of defence administration with significant responsibility by means of an implementing regulation, because this requires the mayors to support them in preparing for defence. I just want to ask you again where you're gonna get people, who's gonna finance this. Those are nice words, these are beautiful ideas, but in reality, I'm really worried that this is going to happen or not. I have very bad feelings about this proposal, and I do not like the fact that this proposal suggests that it will transform the country into a large defence district, and that it will insinuate it in a very clear way into the national case of defence. Defence is indeed a national matter, but it must be organised and done by people who know how to do it, who take responsibility for it. One thing is certain: the ordinary citizen, especially during a period of peace, does not need to see at all what is going on in the background; he does not need to know at all how the defence portfolio carries out its public tasks. He must be sure that if some kind of war event or act occurs, his government will protect him. That's all the citizen has to do with it. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-11-19-108	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr István Simicskó. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-11-19-109	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, We have an important legislative change package ahead of us. Indeed, on the basis of what has been said so far, and I would like to join myself in saying that, of course, it is good to have a debate. I also understand the warlike debate, especially on matters of military concern. Where else could the congressmen be combative? Obviously, everything has a measure. However, I would like to look for a common denominator, because we all really consider national defence to be a national matter, the Defense Act 1. Paragraph 1 of Section 1 states the same. So it's a good thing that we start off with all the fighting to strengthen this common denominator. Obviously, if this is about the Hungarian Defence Service, then perhaps we can all agree that this is an important guarantee, as a basis for guaranteeing our security, that there should be a strong Hungarian Defence Force. So I don't think that's worth arguing about. The extent to which this should be, the means to be equipped, can, of course, be discussed in detail. Now this bill is not necessarily about that; it is about what many people have mentioned here before me, the Secretary of State spoke about the value of security, the importance of security. I would also like to confirm on behalf of the KDNP fraction that, yes, security is a constant value, a constant value for all of us. And why does that always turn up? Because we need to preserve the constant value of security in an extremely fast changing world. This is a very, very serious challenge for all of us, and it is also a very serious challenge for the current Hungarian Defence Forces, and I must say that for all the nations where armies are maintained and operated, in almost all countries, perhaps with the exception of some islands, we have nothing else in mind here. Let me start by saying, before I go to the text of the law, to the ideas of amendment, that I myself see it as one of the very big challenges, perhaps the biggest challenge of our day, the 21st. For the century, how we can preserve our national values in the accelerated world of globalisation, how we can preserve our national character, the values of local communities that we owe to our children and grandchildren. So I think we should start from this, from this great connection. Of course, I could mention a number of challenges, including the survival of contemporary civilizations and the future of contemporary civilizations, where appropriate our civilisation, the future of our Western civilisation, let us think about the migration processes. So we have to answer and find all these answers, and we have to find reassuring answers. And then I didn't even talk about the future of mankind and the future of the Earth, when some people are already searching for alternative worlds, searching for living, living worlds for humanity. [[15.20]] I think that we must continue to honor the world created by God, the Earth, and that we Hungarians must primarily defend Hungary, here in the Carpathian Basin, the Hungarian national values and the people, and we will do everything in our own home, both by legislative power and by executive power, and by smaller and larger human groups, obviously by our individual representatives. Well, that's an introduction. The bill before us contains 27 amendments to the law, so it is a great matter. We used to say it was a salad. It affects many things, since it involves a comprehensive, many, many areas, many laws, and, where appropriate, fundamental laws, as well as the intention to amend them. Varga-Damm Andrea did work at the Ministry of Defense. He mentioned that the state property law is also affected by the proposal, as is the case with the CXXV on national security services. Law, too. Government efforts and intentions are clearly tangible in making it a kind of unified system. A Ministry for National Property was created in the current government structure, which means a ministry without a wallet to oversee the state's assets so that it cannot be squandered. I think it's the right and the right decision. This decision has been made by the government, and this decision is reflected as we live in a rule of law in this law. I don't think this is going to cause any problems in the operation of the Hungarian Defence Service. I would like to touch on the Defense Act, the 2011 CXIII. a law which will be amended, on the one hand, in the light of the intentions of better coordination of tasks relating to civil preparation. I was talking to my young colleague, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, and my talented colleague, about what civil protection really means and what Andrea Varga-Damm said about disaster management. Indeed, in a healthy country, I think it is necessary to strive for civil protection as a large system to embrace many, many things. So the protection of the hinterland, the protection of the civilian population, the civilian people, our fellow citizens and our fellow citizens should be a key element. This is obviously a very difficult task at this age as well as at all ages, but it can be done. And obviously the historical eras, and the change of regime, have brought many things. I don't want to go through history with everything that's happened. We know that disaster control has evolved into a strong organization, and that it has also been able to subdue civil protection, where appropriate. But I think it is also an important effort in this legislative amendment to make civil protection preparedness, information to citizens, preparation of civilians for possible special legal situations. I think it's important because people don't really know what to do in case of trouble. It is our duty to do this, to do it, or to do it, or to be done by the government, obviously, at the head of the executive power. This task will obviously be carried out by the Minister of Defence on the basis of the amendment. The KDNP fraction supports this. I think it's a good idea to put a defense expert, a rapporteur, a defense officer, on the side of civil mayors. I don't think that's possible. I don't think that's from the devil. I don't think that's a matter of number. I think that this is a strengthening and strengthening of professional skills, and we are also strengthening relations with the civil sector through this, and we can create a more effective defence system through this. This is important because the Defense Act states that Hungary's safety is placed on three pillars. These three pillars consist of, on the one hand, the abilities of the Hungarian Defence Forces, the federal system of NATO, our allies, and the sacrifice and patriotic commitment of our citizens, Hungarian citizens. To this end, I think there is plenty to do, including in the capabilities of the Hungarian Defence Forces. Obviously, NATO is definitely okay. We must help our citizens to be prepared, we must make them more aware, we must make our citizens more committed to security and more transparent, so that if there is a problem, everyone knows what to do and what to do, where to turn, what to do. I think that the Hungarian Parliament made a very serious mistake in 2004 when it ended the general military commitment in the way it ended, because it virtually ended not only the military service, but also the obligation to communicate, inform, register, and abolish the medical fitness test with this two-thirds law. Pestive or folklore, we poured the child out with the bath water. The government is trying to correct this mistake so that it has at least an up-to-date record of who it is that we can turn to, who it is that can be addressed at the third pillar. In today's rushing world, the time factor is very important, and we can save time by updating our registration system. This does not involve harassment of citizens, but involves existing public bodies responsible for recording data, the transfer of data into the system of military records, which I think is perfectly reasonable and normal. This is a sober vision that is trying to correct the mistake that the Hungarian Parliament made at the time. Then, obviously, everyone saw the vision that world peace had already broken out, and we could eliminate everything, we could destroy the Hungarian Defence Service, and we didn't need any more military service, and we didn't even need the registration system, which eliminated a normal self-defense opportunity, a ability through it. I am not talking about the fact that in 2001, I initiated the creation of a reserve system in several forms. Many people understood that, but not much has been done. Now this process is underway. Mr Secretary of State said that we had 17 reserve players in 2010, which are now more than 9,000 people. That's a huge achievement. I trust that the Zrínyi military development programme has managed to complete the reserve of 20,000 people, which I believe is justified, sustainable and operational in a country of this size. What I wrote to myself was that in 2016, there was an important NATO summit in Warsaw. In Warsaw, they began to deal very seriously before that, but in Warsaw, the priority agenda dealt with the peculiarities of hybrid warfare, this new type of fourth generation warfare. In this, NATO has set seven basic requirements, which we should adapt to and adapt to, because it is also about us, and our defence capabilities must be strengthened in this way. Within these seven basic requirements, the NATO summit talks about the importance of government stability, i.e. the stability of a political arrangement; how important it is to effectively manage uncontrolled mass movements; the ability to deal with mass injuries to be developed by NATO countries; the security of energy supply, food and water supply security is of paramount importance; the resilience of civil communications systems and the transport system is also of paramount importance. And here is the mention of civil training, civil preparedness, so also the preparedness of citizens, security-conscious thinking. This is a very, very important thing, because the changes have never happened as quickly as they have in the coming period. We've talked about this a couple of times. Let me also say this, Mr Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, on the issue of hybrid warfare and the new special rule of law. We used to call this a classified period, today it's a special legal order. It's also in the Fundamental Law: the emergency, the preventive defense situation, the emergency state, the state of emergency, the unexpected armed attack, and a few years ago, I suggested that the government put it on the agenda, and then Parliament accepted it, the terrorist threat, the terrorist attack. These are the six special legal conditions or qualified periods in today's Hungarian legal system. This reflects a very, very wide, responsible thinking covering almost all security risks. There are not many countries where politicians, legislators and executives think so much trouble. And indeed, in relation to hybrid warfare, while, of course, there is no 100% security, but we strive to ensure that our fellow citizens are as safe as possible, so we must also pay attention to the new types of challenges. Allow me to say a few words about the cyber attack, which is also mentioned in the material. This is one of the elements of the so-called fourth generation warfare, hybrid warfare. In the developmental stories of warfare, William Lind names four generations, four generations of warfare. The first generation, only briefly: the role of new combat procedures, ties, the establishment of an officer's school. 1808, Ludovika Academy, just to give you an example, but obviously also in Prussian and Russian schools, and then in Habsburg the Maria Theresa Academy was established in 1752. The second warfare is the period of industrial revolution, its completion, the development and development of artillery devices, the emergence of tanks. In World War I, the British have already deployed Mark I and Mark II armored men on the western front. They weren't used in crowds yet, but one by one, but this has already confirmed a saying said in World War I that artillery defeats, infantry seizes. That was second generation warfare. [[15.30]] We're about to make it to the fourth floor. The third generation is practically II. World War II, mobility, manoeuvring ability, the use of combat teams in crowds, total wars and the attack of the hinterland. Here it emerges that the safety of the hinterland can no longer be guaranteed or less guaranteed by modern technology. Here, too, the importance of civil protection, the creation of air defense and air defense cellars for the protection of the civilian population, is emerging. The fourth generation of warfare, in which we live today, where there is no declaration of war, is very difficult to distinguish the state of peace, classic peace from qualified periods, from the special legal order, i.e. the war period. Who tells me today that if, for example, cyberspace is attacked by any Hungarian state institution and happens daily, is it war or not, pressure or not? The definition of classic war in the clausewitz sense: forcing my will to another country, a destination country, to do what it would not otherwise do, the continuation of politics by other violent means says Clausewitz. Who can do that? Obviously, in today's world, at the level of technology and technology, these kinds of maneuvers, these kinds of influences happen every day, and obviously there is only one goal of achieving chaos in that country, destabilizing the internal political power, the existing order, and, of course, controlling it from the outside. In many cases there is no declaration of war, and the underlying forces are not visible. So we live in a unique world, and it is very important that we recognize and see this and acquire more and more abilities in order to protect Hungarian people from a number of instruments of this type of warfare. Thanks to God, no one has ever used all the elements of hybrid warfare at the same time, because that means military power, not the use of nuclear devices, but diplomatic pressure, financial pressure, and much more. Finally, I would conclude by saying that KDNP naturally supports the amendment of the law. I trust that the objective of development of forces can move forward with momentum. This ten-year plan is important to all of us, and it guarantees that we have a strong Hungarian defence. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-19-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Tamás Harangozó. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-11-19-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Listening to the government's exposé, the only thing that came to my mind was that I wrote to myself: if we had only heard what Szilárd Németh said here, then I could say that the Lord God has mercy on the Hungarian Army. Something amazing happened here. And I don't want to criticize the President of this House, but as a fact, it's a shame in a country that a defense secretary won't say a damn word about the bill in 15 minutes. Because either he doesn't know what's in it, or he doesn't care that this Parliament isn't called a Fidesz meeting or a press conference. We're in a professional law dispute, supposedly on a national matter. Luckily, and for that reason, I will say my professional comments, there was another pro-government politician who just brought the man back to his belief that there might still be any point in this debate and this Parliament. But I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary, and to say things that you said with an unbridled face? Are you saying that in 2010 the financing of the defence was reduced to 1.1 per cent of GDP and 0.8 per cent in 11 and 0.8 per cent in 12 and 15 and 0.7 per cent at the end of five years of government? And wouldn't you rather listen wisely and say what we all say, we could all support that the Prime Minister has finally come, or the government's mind, and start spending money on the military, try to do it normally, together? That could be a voice in this House. For decades, they will again designate the direction, equipment and everything else of the defence. That could be a base. What Csaba Hende has done in this country for five years is not a negotiating basis, and it's certainly not something anyone could be proud of. They are making investments, they are making legislative amendments that could indeed re-define the defence for decades. By the way, they do so, as we said at the committee meeting, that I also think that the leadership of HM is a disgrace to the fact that, for example, the members of the Defence Committee, or even their vice-presidents, have to learn from the press what tools the Hungarian defence portfolio, the Hungarian government, intends to acquire. I'm gonna ask you one more time: why? Are you ashamed? They're hiding it? There's a corruption case in the background that they can't come in and proudly tell us why we're taking this or why? Aren't they proud enough to buy a helicopter? Why do we have to keep this a secret even before the defense committee's closed session? The fact that you did not speak in detail on this proposal, Mr Secretary of State, I am not surprised. Well, what prestigious loss is it to the Hungarian Defence Office that once again it is necessary to give applause and applause and vote that defence companies are being removed from the defence wallet in the middle of a defence procurement? ! What's this? Andrea Bartfai will take HMEI Zrt. give you the best professional and political direction during a military development? He has no idea, nor does the wallet, of the special knowledge that should be represented in a large defence procurement program! And don't tell me nothing changes. If nothing changes, why are they transferring control rights? It's changing. The powers of appointment and the powers of management are attached to the ownership. And as I look at it in this bill and in the committee meeting, they are now going after the companies separately under the authority of the CBI, the Military National Security Service. Because it would be nonsense, however, that hundreds or even thousands of billions of defence procurements should be carried out in such a way that soldiers, let's say, do not even have secret service tools to prevent harmful influences or corruption or the influence of foreign anti-military or other organizations. Total nonsense! There's a lot in this bill, it's a fact and it's true. One of the reasons we're definitely not gonna support him is to take the defense companies away from the wallet. Not that, as I just said, I have a personal fascination with the current defense leadership. It's a construction issue, and I think it's just where it belongs, and it's not for nothing that you've been under the defense, because it's a special area. But I'll keep it quietly, for example, HMEI Zrt. He's working on guarding the entire military assets through his armed security guards. Now, will the Minister for State Property decide who and how to protect the HM objects? In many cases, this proposal extends the scope of the CCNSZ, and as an opposition representative, in the current political situation, I could say that a little bit of hair on the back when you read about the almost unlimited applicability of biometric data. But let me still be told by the Member of Parliament who is committed to defence that, by the way, there is a reality that, in order to protect our soldiers, the CCNSZ should have such tools, especially in foreign missions, foreign services and missions. Whether I believe that these instruments are applied in an inappropriate manner in Hungary, whether they are applied to civilians or politicians, I would not be able to say yes to that. No, there's no such thing as trust. But I'm still saying that in order to protect our soldiers, that would be acceptable. I have a specific question about the bill. Others have already mentioned that we are taking huge steps here in terms of defence management. Now tell me, not only is it opposition, there are still a few Fidesz mayors and Fidesz-led settlements who will pay for the mandatory use of defense rapporteurs and defence rapporteurs in addition to the mayors. Who? Does the municipality manage this, find a suitable professional, or, since this is not part of the bill, does the Hungarian State or the Hungarian Defence Office help, join, or effectively finance these statuses? I think it doesn't matter at all. In the reserve system, it is a pity that Mr Simicskó had to leave, because I think he spoke about substantive issues, could be debated or even agreed on, for example in terms of defence, it can be agreed that the registration systems should be recalibrated. How thoughtful in 2004 was, how not, a different question has passed over the years. I also think that we too believe that the defence records, the register that serves and only serves the purpose of knowing exactly what is happening here in an extraordinary situation, in a state of war, or in any other extraordinary period of time, about all our fellow citizens subject to war, and that everyone who can and must do what is necessary to protect this country should know exactly about it, I think that this is not a controversial goal. [[15.40]] Another question is whether we believe that these records are only used, but obviously it is up to the opposition to doubt. But the fact that, by the way, the period of military engagement was increased by ten years last time, and now it is extended to practically the retirement age, we are a little concerned that this is once again one of the tools of statistical magic on paper to tell NATO and our other allies or even the propaganda of Hungarian citizens how much our reserve capacity has increased. I hope that's not the purpose of this, because then I can almost tell you that God has mercy on us if there really is a problem. Finally, I think we need to say a few words about what is not in this law. We've heard a lot about the 50 percent wage increase here, which you called the first step, Secretary of State. That was a pretty powerful first step that a government took after five years, so it started in a second cycle, and for four years it wasn't that important. But as in the area of law enforcement, in the field of defence, this wage increase was necessary, important, but today it is no longer worth much. In the area of law enforcement, there is a particularly chaotic situation from the lack of labour and overtime we see, there is not necessarily such a problem in the field of defence, although, of course, due to the organization's capabilities, these problems do not very well come out, if any. But the fact and fact is that the Minister himself, but the Minister of the Interior, has acknowledged that they cannot maintain the competitiveness of these services, these professions, without making any meaningful progress, nor can they find new candidates in the capacity they should be today. So it would have been nice to see, let's say, in a bill of this type, some progress on whether or not to raise wages in the area, or finally to have some other advantage to help the profession in this area. We have not heard a word from the Secretary of State about the fact that the staff stop that the Hungarian government has just introduced has affected the Hungarian Defence Forces here in the midst of the success propaganda. According to our information and knowledge, this staff stop, which is general, does not apply to doubling the salary of the President of the Republic and increasing the salary of the other, otherwise very important persons, by at least 50 or 100 percent. This staff stop also concerns the Hungarian Defence Forces, and we have not heard of it. [[Németh Szilárd István: It's not true!]] But you'll deny it, Mr. Secretary. [[István Szilárd Németh: You're lying!]] I'm not lying, Mr. Secretary. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes, you can.]] I said we haven't heard from him. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Say pacal!]] Tell me whether it's true or not. But in any case, it would be good if we could talk a little more about it in such a bill, once again, about the human resource, which is indeed the most important factor of defence, defence at all, their salaries, remuneration and other working conditions beyond the machines and the technical means, and how further the government can help, because I think it would be timely in any way. Thank you so much for listening. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2019-11-19-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker for the DK Group is Ms Ágnes Vadai. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-11-19-113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, If the Hungarian Army had so many fighter planes, every time I heard from myself that defence was a national matter, and, of course, every time you cut through the nation, the Hungarian Defence Office could guard the entire airspace of Europe. But for you, this line, this sentence means nothing. You know three things, and you're very enthusiastic about it: you steal, you lie, and you show every single blessed day that you have two thirds of them in Parliament, so you shove everything down people's throats. This may be one thing, of course, to say that defence is a national issue, only one who listened to the State Secretary's proposal, and otherwise I am glad that he has left, does not make the overall picture worse. [[Demercation from the benches of opposition parties.]] I think he doesn't want to be a part of this, and I can understand it terribly. Because the Secretary of State, while he was talking about this law, of course, that's not what his proposal was about, every single sentence, perhaps even the article, was a lie. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Come on!]] It was a lie about what was before 2010 and about what was after 2010. My fellow Members have already talked about the extent to which the Hungarian Defence budget has decreased between 2011 and 2016. I know that 1 percent in your numerical system is less than 0.8 percent, but most of humanity still thinks that 1 percent is more. But we understand that you work and operate in this system of numbers. We also accept and it is true that, on 1 January 2002, at the time, there was a salary increase, but the Secretary of State forgets to add that no funds were assigned to it, so after the change of government, the new defence management had to raise the budget for the defence portfolio to pay the wages from September. So these details are forgotten to tell. They also forget to say that, at the meetings of the Defence and Police Committee, when it was about the purchase of defences over the past decade, it was indeed in the time of Csaba Hende, and perhaps my fellow Members confirm this, the Minister came every two or three months and said: "We buy a helicopter, we buy a spaceship, we buy a submarine, we buy everything. And then he went back and we didn't buy anything. [[Sándor Font intervenes.]] Then, after 2015, they actually started spending on the army, and especially after 2018, when they had completely bled out the Hungarian Army, they decided not to themselves, not the defence wallet, but the Prime Minister, to find a new area. Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Defence Office is the new stadium, because no one believes that the takeover of defence companies in this bill has anything to do with the unified management of assets; and that your making defence purchases has anything to do with the development of the Hungarian Defence Forces. You are always referring to this program, Zrinyi 2026, which is something I have said many times, like Columbo's wife, they talk about it, but no one has ever seen it. The only thing we saw was a color-scented booklet, which, if I remember correctly, was flashed to us during the ministry of István Simicskó, that this program, Zrínyi 2026, in which everything is being developed at once, really, from the new uniform to the spaceship, so everything, everything at the same time. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, There is no country in the world that can afford this type of development. No one can argue that, and we talked a lot about it at the National Defence and Police Committee meetings, that those who sit on that committee, and now we know that they are talking about them, because there are some people we didn't even know had a voice at all, but they do talk about it in substance, they always tell us that the military issue should really be a national matter. And there's one reason you can't be, because you do all the improvements, all the submissions in secret. I've asked the minister so many times to show me the new equipment I've acquired because, as far as I know, soldiers like to show me these new tools, which, of course, is quite natural, I've asked as many times as the star in the sky. Every time I asked him why, the answer was no, and when I asked him why, the answer was: just. Ladies and gentlemen, That way, the military can't be a national case. We would like to be a part of this, and we would like to support it, but you are simply not giving us the opportunity to do so. [[Németh Szilárd István: There's the button!]] Plus, the public procurement so far... excuse me, Mr. Secretary, we're not talking about pacal, we're talking about defence, which is an important matter... [[István Szilárd Németh: I was talking about the voting machine...]] But the matter of the pacal, I know it's more important to you [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I know you prefer that, and you know better than that, but the military's issue is a very important issue; it can't just be a matter of Fidesz-KDNP, and it's not a matter of Fidesz-KDNP voters. It is the case of the whole country, and not only because it has a civic obligation, but also because the exemptions from public procurement made in the past period and the parallel procurements that are taking place may not determine the fate of the Hungarian Defence Forces for a year, but also for one or more decades, the development direction of the Hungarian Defence Forces and, of course, how much of the Hungarian taxpayers' money you spend. But to get back there, the Secretary of State spoke about his proposal for this bill, and the general explanation is how much the force has been renewed you have not been guided by it at all. [[15.50]] So far, you've been driven to steal every single purchase. And by getting away from the defense wallet, because there are decent soldiers out there who took care of the military assets, by getting these defense companies out of their ownership portfolio and moving to the state property minister, it's clear that the theft will be even more intense. I don't need to remind those sitting here that in the summer the defense wallet replaced those people, those former soldiers, including generals, who basically dealt with budget, wealth and public procurement, and what God gives, Antal Rogán's men were sent there! Antal Rogán's men were sent there! Now, even though they're shaking their heads here and looking at me reprehensibly, I'd like to say that Antal Rogán is not a model of decency, and there is no statue of him. But speaking of the development of forces and the extent to which the army has been destroyed, I would like to remind you that the papal base airport was made in our time, and in our time, the half-acquired Gripenek, purchased by you, was set up in full order, all the related procurements, all the infrastructure improvements had to be made by us during our administration. And I have immense pride in being joined by the Gyurcsány-Szekeres-Juhász trio as former Secretary of State for Defence, and I do not believe that I was such an influential secretary of state, but it is my honor to think that as the first woman to perform this political role, I had such influence. Thank you very much. I sincerely hope that you will not have such influence in the life of the Hungarian Defence Forces, because it will be a tragedy. [[Nacsa Lawrence: She's not a woman!]] It is certain that, for example, the Honvéd Hospital, which Mr. Secretary of State talked about, and in this we agreed on what a great modern hospital... well, there was when we handed it over and developed it, and how we managed to destroy that hospital over the last ten years because it wasn't spent. All kinds of purchases were made, while we know for sure that the change in Iraq in 2018 was not able to come home with the Hungarian Defence Machine, because someone else was driving around and had to rent a plane from Ukraine. And he will answer whether it is true that the change in Kosovo in September also came home not by plane, but by bus, because there was not one of the planes in the Hungarian Army that could have been used for military purposes, but someone was driving with it again. But if that's not the case, Mr. Secretary of State will correct you in this case. What I'd like to say is that on this defence issue and the military issue, it's no wonder the minister didn't come here to do an expo. As a former soldier, how can I say this? It would have been hard for him to tell you all this nonsense, but he always found someone from the defense wallet willing to say these things, and he is willing to spit on the soldiers of the Hungarian Army, including the current minister, who was sitting there with us as the military commander. As OHP commander, he sat there with us, and a large part of the soldiers who served in the Hungarian Army, who you... I mean, those who were not kicked out completely, of course, illegally, sat there with us and could express their opinion, and in accordance with the country's capacity to carry a load, we spent even more on the Hungarian Army in the year of crisis than you did in the period 2011-16. So, Secretary of State, you can come here and explain your certificate to me and explain to me how much you've developed, it's simply not so! As far as the voluntary reserve system is concerned, I am sorry that Mr Simicskó has left, because cooperation with him in the context of the voluntary reserve system shows that there is a point where defence can be a national issue. It was the Secretary of State who presented the proposal for a resolution of the Parliament on the reserve system at the time of our administration, and it was voted by the party factions. It was then launched, in 2008 a full review of the voluntary reserve system. I could say that all you guys had to do was recruit, but you didn't even make it. Because you know they recruited you? By making the former soldiers of the Hungarian Army, the retired pensioners retired and informed them that those who did not reach the retirement age would have to go to a voluntary reserve or pay 15% of the tax. Now, Congressman, Secretary of State, that's why there are so many people in the VRS now, because you forced these people into it. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] They forced these people into it! As far as the Hungarian Defence Forces are concerned, I think it is very nice to raise the number on paper and do this. That's exactly what they're doing! The current shortage of the Hungarian Defence Forces is not public data, but I am not mistaken if I say that there are 5 to 8,000 people missing. I'm not wrong. And we know precisely that when the Hungarian Army was ordered to the border, the volunteers were ordered into the barracks, and these people were switching. So at least don't lie about the VRS here. These issues can always be discussed with great openness at closed meetings of the Defence and Police Committee. I was very pleased that, although these are not technical amendments, as they have written, and as far as the general justification is concerned, I think it is a large set of lies, but I was particularly pleased that there is a part where we can say that the political leaders of the defence portfolio are finally beginning to understand the 21st century. The challenges of the century, and this is cyber warfare. This must be done not only because NATO countries decided to do so at the NATO summit in Warsaw, but also because it can indeed be seen that there are ongoing attacks, such as attacks on the defence portfolio's website. They denied it for a long time, but at a conference, someone accidentally lost track of what happened. It is very important that the Hungarian Defence Forces have this ability. But I have to say, it was pretty sad what I read, because other than looking at cyber warfare and warfare like any kind of warfare, they have no idea what the problem is. You don't understand how this new generation, generation Z, works. You would like to hire people for cyber warfare, cyberoptions, and tasks that today's 40-50-year-olds can't do; and not because they're stupid, but because this is a new generation, it requires the knowledge and experience of the younger generation. Yesterday, at the closed session of the Defence and Police Committee, the Director General of the CBI said that it is obviously no secret that he has a lot of problems with generation Z, because they do not understand this world. My problem is that apparently the government doesn't quite know the challenges of cyberspace activity. It cannot be solved by conventional military means and military systems. That requires a very different way of thinking. In principle, we say that, for example, in military organisations, it is very important to have persons who, if they have access to certain national classified information, have appropriate national security control. Ladies and gentlemen, Well, imagine, you might have to implant people who won't be willing to carry out a C-type national security check, especially every five years. Imagine working there with people who don't understand the language you speak or what soldiers say. And you can say that the political leaders of the Hungarian Defense have problems with generation Z, and generation Z has problems with these leaders. And whether you like it or not, you have to realize that the future is theirs, and they know about these events in cyberspace. Less, very little, I'd say. That is why I believe that in this case there should be an independent defence bill, with a comprehensive focus not only on the military but also on cyberspace in general. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2019-11-19-114	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker for the LMP Group is Mrs Márta Demeter. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-11-19-115	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Before my fellow Members, they have responded very much, very precisely to the pro-government debate on the bill, and I would just like to highlight a few of these points. [[16.00]] He mentioned that this was a matter of fine-tuning and that the laws should be constantly fine-tuned, and I say that they create continuing legal uncertainty. It is clear that the laws of defence, be it the law of status, be it the amendment of individual laws of defence, are being adapted to an increasingly deteriorating situation, the deteriorating situation is not being dealt with by solving problems, but by trying to make the system more flexible by means of laws. Here, for example, I would like to recall that the possibility of an amazing overtime and overtime has been accepted in the case of the Hungarian Defence Forces, rather than remedying the brutal shortage of numbers that has otherwise emerged in recent years. Therefore, it is not possible to amend these laws every minute and every two months, so I think that it is a big mistake if this is seen as fine-tuning. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] The other thing is asset purchases. I would like to point out here that a good part of the assets that are being purchased are not military instruments, but merely civilian instruments, which, by painting them otherwise grey, will not yet be military instruments. I think that the priorities reflected quite serious problems, as well as the fact that we did not see a meaningful development concept, we did not see a detailed plan that would otherwise break down into units how, however, the Hungarian Defence Forces should be developed. And this is extremely irresponsible, because it can be seen, however, that although more than HUF 200 billion was taken from the Hungarian Defence Office in the first four years, which was then a full-year budget, so this brutally destroyed the system, but then they realized that the situation was obviously untenable, because the defence would collapse, there would be no one to protect the country, and they began to spend some more money on the system. Obviously, the first few years were about basically replacing what was taken away in the first four years. After that, however, it is clear that now more funds are being spent on purchases, and we can really say that this could be a historic opportunity to make meaningful improvements in the defence, and as my fellow Member Hubay mentioned, and István Simicskó pointed out that it is actually a modern, flexible, XXI. Let's make it a hundredth-century force. Well, that's in the interests of all of us, this national interest just doesn't use the money for this, so we just can't achieve what they say in words. It is clear that the Hungarian Defence Office is currently being used as a cash chip. It is extremely irresponsible, in addition to the fact that it is obviously against the law, it is the hotbed of corruption, and all that is known from the discharges of the Defence Committee from public procurement, only this amount is over 1400 billion forints, and it is spent completely blindly, and they refuse to inform me about it, and I do not really want to say for a hundred thousand times that, by the way, the Hungarian Members of Parliament and the committees and their members, or the Hungarian public, are not. At the last minute, the Hungarian public will find out some of the lost details. The fact that the cost of a device is particularly outrageous is being tried to hide it from the Hungarian public at all costs, so that, for example, if we look at the purchase of F-16 fighters in Slovakia, it was also in the articles on the Internet exactly how much these devices cost. [[István Szilárd Németh: They just don't cost that much!]] I do not think that this was an infinite risk for Slovakia. So the taxpayers are right to expect them to keep the Hungarian Defense with their money, so they can see what it's spent on! And every single forint that the Hungarian taxpayers intend to protect the country should be in the Hungarian Defence Service, not in the pocket of friends. I think that one of the most worrying points in the specific legislative proposal is the issue of registers, and what we are seeing could in essence raise the risk of re-introducing the ranks, because the government has not yet been able to explain why these registers should be extended, why new registers should be created. What the Secretary of State has said here, for example, does not give any meaningful explanation. I would like to stress that, even now, if there is any situation that makes it necessary to have access to data, data from the population register can be obtained in the same way as usque in a quarter of an hour, and it is not necessary to create a new register. So I think this is extremely worrying, and I would also like to say here, in the midst of the walls of this house, that it would be unacceptable for us to re-introduce the ranks, that it would make it impossible for young people to start a very bitter career, to find a job, it would be extremely wasteful and expensive, and otherwise it would not increase the country's defence capabilities at any level. So I just hope that this is not the way they try to keep young people here in Hungary. Allow me to point out at this point that, while we are talking about registers, it is also very worrying how defence organisations would handle data they have learned at all and how safe they would be. For the time being, I would also like to stress here that they were unable to resolve that health data should not be removed from the Honvéd Hospital, because the data protection authority condemned the Honvéd Hospital and imposed a fine in the course of my investigation, pointing out that, despite the legal provisions, the hospital had not developed an effective system for protecting the health data of patients treated there. And basically, it was also described that the hospital commander was free to have the information that was stored there, such as you asked for my medical records, and by the way, the next day, during a fatal accident, it could somehow have come to the pro-government press. So I think this is not a confidence-building story for Hungarian citizens, because this is how secure the data is for defence organizations. And I think that as long as such cases can happen to anyone, until, for example, they are able to install a locker in the Honvéd Hospital, so simply to say, on what basis they would ask or request, if this law were adopted, any data from millions of young Hungarians. It is in the law that, on the one hand, the data should be obtained from existing registers, so that I should also stress here that they will also refer back to an earlier line register, that they would also obtain data from it. The question to me is that if you claim that these records have ceased to exist, then what does the law refer to, but I think you will have the opportunity to answer that question, and I have also asked you in writing, but I am glad that if the Secretary of State answers it and asks you for new data. So they have no legal basis, no basis for requesting data from young people until they can solve these problems. And from the Prime Minister, we are hearing statements that have been made, and I would like to refer here to the fact that my fellow Member Andrea Varga-Damm mentioned such a war situation, as if the government's intention was to keep the country under constant stress, so that the Hungarian Prime Minister would see a regional conflict in order. What's this? What exactly do you mean? Do you actually know anything? Because if you have any information, it starts with the fact that (1) you have to stand up to the Hungarian public and tell them; (2) you have to develop an appropriate strategy and concept to manage it; and (3) you can only expect any social involvement and extra effort from the Hungarian people in this regard, whether it be material, personal or any other means or other. Only after that, if that's the case. And if they don't, then why are they just talking crap? So if there's no regional conflict threat, why are they talking about it? So I think that I am stressing that not only the Hungarian Members of Parliament, but also the citizens are entitled to expect the answer to order. So in my opinion, the solution would not be that, unfortunately, respect would be the exception, but they try to see Hungarian people as stupid, but the solution would be to develop the Hungarian Defence Forces with responsibility, to try to fill up the shortage of numbers that have developed so that as many people as possible have a good heart to sign up for soldiers, because there are many young people who want to be more active in the service of the country, but because of certain circumstances they simply cannot do so. Every year, we listen to the fact that military higher education has, by the way, sniveling lines so that they can audition and simply hire a limited number of people. So these opportunities should be expanded, we should fill up the shortage of numbers, have a real strong professional force of about 30,000, complete with the establishment of a healthy, not a parallel force, as a so-called voluntary reserve system, but a system of 6 to 7 thousand people with professional support and necessity based on actual volunteering, and run it fairly! There is no need for data to be cosmeticized or for citizens to be alarmed. [[16.10]] The proposal mentions that HM companies and essentially procurements are avoided from the defence wallet. To be honest, the reason I wouldn't add too much to this is because, in my opinion, there will be no big change. Because the HM companies have been extremely inaccessible, they have not worked with proper professionalism, you can hear from professional circles this 6B pencil case, that the pencil is so thick, now these companies are avoiding elsewhere, nothing is going to change, it will be as professional and it will not be as transparent. However, it is clear, and the acquisition was already outsourced, right, by trusting Gáspár Maróth with basically thousands of billions of forints, it can be seen from now on that the defence wallet was unable to manage the procurements and not to be accompanied by scandals. It is mentioned in the proposal that it complements the concept of "organised work" in relation to defence employee rights. In particular, we have turned to the Constitutional Court in connection with the status of defence employees. You can also hear from the days of the Honvéd Hospital that a nurse has won a labor suit in connection with this. In our view, it was unconstitutional to introduce this relationship. A few words about cyber security. It is clear that the CBI is increasing its role, but the possibility of control is being reduced over defence organisations. And I would ask what happened to the cybersecurity strategy, because it was adopted in 2013 and I think that every strategy is worth as much as it is allocated, and we still don't see what kind of resources they would allocate to it, so how serious the intention is. I hope that you will take substantial steps in this case, because, of course, this is a very important area. What is extraordinarily outrageous is that, in essence, a restricted area is appointed, and they are doing everything to ensure that neither the operation of the Hungarian Defence Forces nor the government activity can be controlled in this regard. When we went to defence organizations, they refused to give us any meaningful information, with my fellow Members, in violation of the law. For this reason, we have also turned to the Constitutional Court when a decree was drawn up on the obligation to notify 72 hours ahead, and the Minister and the Chief of Staff will be able to decide, at his pleasure, who will be allowed to enter, where and when, and who will answer what question at all. What you're doing is extremely dangerous. It is extremely dangerous to exclude the defence organizations from democratic control. It is clear that the kind of organizational transformation that created the military command, I think, could have been a necessary professional step to talk about, that the Joint Chiefs would otherwise be removed from the Ministry of Defence. I do not think it was a good thing that it was there, and obviously it is important to better distinguish powers and responsibilities. But all of this was done by essentially eliminating control. In this way, we can say that the military can become essentially self-propelled, which can be extremely dangerous for society if it is not willing to implement the decisions of constitutionally elected representatives and decision-makers. This can lead absolutely to the harm of Hungarian society and obviously to the continuing deterioration of its security. As to the fact that soldiers would be deployed in public companies, it is clear that this is the intention, and it seems to me that many generals are no longer able to afford space, and they need to create a new job. I think we should cut the water head instead, and it's extremely harmful, by the way, if the military lobby on the back of the stock is trying to get new greasy jobs for itself. I think that this process that we are seeing is, unfortunately, about this, and it is not about strengthening the protection of the country, by the way. So I think that these processes must be stopped, and I strongly recommend that my fellow members of the Government and the Government reconsider this proposal. I'm sure we can't support him in this form. Thank you.
u2019-11-19-116	Thank you, Congresswoman. I also welcome my fellow Members. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. Now it is possible to make a two-minute comment. I give the floor to Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc.
u2019-11-19-117	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr President, I didn't intend to comment on the debate originally, but Congresswoman Vada ran a verbal rampage here during her speech as the lead speaker, and I would reject the way that Congressman Harangozó and Congresswoman Vadai both qualified the Secretary of State's report and used rude and offensive words. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: What about me? Don't I matter? I don't matter anymore?]] when, by the way, at the beginning of his expo, he outlined the state of the Hungarian Defence Forces at present. It was right that, at the beginning of his expo, he did not specifically talk about articles and amendments, but also about this. I would like to warn Mrs Vadai that she will share what was said at the closed meeting of the Defence and Police Committee here at her public meeting. We've seen this before. The congresswoman behind you has leaked confidential information. [[Márta Demeter: Make sure it doesn't become a lawsuit. Be careful what you say, sir. Intercoms from Jobbik: He doesn't know what he's saying! Learn to talk.]] So I'd keep you from telling me these things. He claimed that he had only seen a colourful-scented flyer in Zrínyi 2026, nothing else. He claims this the week the first Airbus helicopters arrived in Hungary. He's doing this the week when these helicopters arrived, not to mention the planes, the team buses, the armored vehicles, anything, and you're talking about the other way around on the horse, Congresswoman, when you're in heavy technology, everyone knows how much you've been downsized, and there are rumors that you've sold the refurbished vehicles at a cheaper rate than the value of the metal in it. That's what the public was doing back then. We know the gift of the very expensively renovated T-72s and the sale of the refurbished heavy equipment. To tell us that we have dismantled the Hungarian Defence Forces while you have done exactly that! ? I'd probably miss Minister Szekeres in the Gyurcsány-Vadai Trio, which is simpler, or Gyurcsány-Vadai-duo, sorry, simpler [[Dr. Agnes Vadai on the table: Thank you! Thank you. Deficit in the lines of MSZP and LMP.]] It's easier to say, you were the ones who destroyed the army beyond imagination. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-19-118	Thank you. I give the floor to Congresswoman Ágnes Vadai in two minutes.
u2019-11-19-119	Me, Ágnes Vadai, Ferenc Gyurcsány, I don't know what it is. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's it!]] Vice-President, whatever. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Yikes!]] in the trio, part of the duo, I would like to say that it is a great honor to say that we are no longer at the point that Ferenc Juhász and Imre Szekeres, but Ferenc Gyurcsány and myself, who was the Secretary of State for Defence, led this whole military thing, obviously, in a witch's kitchen. I am very proud that when I was State Secretary, the Hungarian state spent over 1 percent of the Hungarian taxpayers' money on the Hungarian Army, and then you arrived between 2011-16 and this spending was below 1 percent, and the assets were rotting down, and the soldiers left. The wage increase you were talking about, and Congressman Nacsa missed it, has been forgotten to include the wage increase in the defence budget since September 2002 [[Nacsa Lőrinc: 2002!]] Yes, because in the beginning of January 2002, the Secretary of State spoke of this in his production report, that the salary had been increased, but this party only lasted as long as the election had taken place, because they were with him, that if they won, they would solve it, if they did not win, then someone would solve it. Minister Ferenc Juhász, whose secretary of state I wasn't, obviously influenced from the background, and built an entire background institution to influence the Hungarian Defence Service, and I am doing so now, obviously, sitting at my little magic ball and doing this, so Minister Ferenc Juhász decided, in some way, to obtain this amount and to add to the defence budget. I would also like to say that the previously launched, not completed by you, but the Honvéd Hospital, which we consider important, was completed in our time. That was a very serious expense, and we ran it. Unfortunately, for your time, Congressman, this does not apply. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-19-120	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter in two minutes.
u2019-11-19-121	Thank you. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, What I see is that Congressman Nacsa is also terribly disturbed by the question we are asking, and we do look forward to the answers to these questions. It should be considered whether it is perhaps not a problem that we need to bring a court case in order for the Hungarian public to know at all what 1400 billion forints of their money are being spent on, what they are spending on. You know what I asked you, fellow Member? How many contracts did you sign, what's the amount? Terrible hard questions, I know, I know, I see. [[16.20]] When they have something to hide, these are very unpleasant questions. The other is that I find it outrageous that, for example, in connection with the purchase of 1,400 billion euros, the Hungarian press had to learn from Germany the information that the Hungarian government had bought some 540 billion forints, if I recall correctly, from Germany for €1.79 million. So this is something that the German public must find out about the request for data in the public interest submitted to the German economic portfolio, and then the Hungarian press will then write, and so the Hungarian public will find out. It's outrageous! In this way, we need to bring a lawsuit at home instead of giving honest reports in the parliamentary committees about what taxpayers' money is being spent on, and instead of taking responsibility for a situation where there is finally more resources for the development of the Hungarian Defence Office. Compared to this, you do not take responsibility for this opportunity.
u2019-11-19-122	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now we're going to have regular comments. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy.
u2019-11-19-123	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Mr. Secretary. I don't know, you can call it that, because what you said here was a ministerial exposé. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] It is fair that, in fact, what my fellow Members have said had too much to do with the bill. You can hear how you are preparing for the post of minister, so I think that Colonel Benkő may be concerned, because the bar is shaking below him. (Development in opposition benches. ) There's such a great deal of confidence that every single journalist is talking about a change of minister. You're so good at your job, you're replacing this minister, and you're aspirating to this position. That's why it's understandable that you're driven, you're passionate, because it's time to show the boss that you've got a good dog, and it makes sense to trust him with this important task. (Development in opposition benches. ) Mr Secretary of State, Or Minister, I'm sorry. You've come a long way from the founder of SZDSZ [[György Szilágyi: Oops!]] [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] It is fair that, in fact, what my fellow Members have said had too much to do with the bill. You can hear how you are preparing for the post of minister, so I think that Colonel Benkő may be concerned, because the bar is shaking below him. (Development in opposition benches. ) There's such a great deal of confidence that every single journalist is talking about a change of minister. You're so good at your job, you're replacing this minister, and you're aspirating to this position. That's why it's understandable that you're driven, you're passionate, because it's time to show the boss that you've got a good dog, and it makes sense to trust him with this important task. (Development in opposition benches. ) Mr Secretary of State, Or Minister, I'm sorry. You have come a long way from the founder of SZDSZ (György Szilágyi: Oops!) to get to the point that you are the most powerful representative of the national interest, and you are also in such a hostile defence area, because if your CVs are correct, then you have nothing to do with defence, much more about education. Although I don't know where he could do any more damage, you're here at the EMMI, the Ministry of Defense. (Development in opposition benches. ) Maybe it's better if you stay here at the Ministry of Defense, maybe you can do a little damage here. Clearly, trusting you and your professional skills is a very good indicator of two minor aspects. One was in July 2018, when I read that it has a very nice name for national defence, industrial and defence developments, and a government commissioner in charge of coordinating force modernisation was appointed. So one of the main points of the Zrinyi program has been taken from you and entrusted to Maróth Gáspár, because they do not trust you to do this, either by you or by your minister. After that, they will also hand over the management of their companies to another minister, Andrea Bártfai-Mager, who has as much experience in defence as you have, Minister. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] So they're so confident in your professional knowledge that your essence, in fact, where the money is, is being taken away from you. If this is because you know you can't manage this or you're afraid to steal it, I don't know, you can discuss it. But the point is that there is so much confidence in professionalism that, specifically, two very, very important areas that you have talked about here for a long time, and the Fidesz MEPs have talked about how much success this is, please, that is not with you, that is not your concern. The other question is that you spoke about the fact that my Fidesz fellow Member spoke about the fact that defence is a national matter. I think it should be a national matter, but the way you manage this wallet, the way you talk about it, it's hard to make a national matter out of it. It seems to me like hell was before 2010, and after 2010, heaven was here in the field of defence. So what happened before was all bad, all bad, all bad, the plague, but you're here, and from then on, everything's beautiful, white, the sun's shining, and everyone's very happy with the defense. But when I talk to soldiers, that's not exactly what they tell me anyway. But I'm pretty sure history started with you in the field of defence. Otherwise, I think it would be more appropriate to take the approach that we are talking about, that it would be good to move forward in the field of defence through national consensus. I do not even doubt that there is a right or a place for criticism where appropriate, so it is right for you to criticize what the previous governments may have failed. Just please remember that self-criticism has a place for decent modesty. Therefore, criticism is justified if they are also able to demonstrate self-reflectiveness, that what you are doing wrong or what you are not doing is wrong, and perhaps some opposition proposals point to this, they may accept these comments and, where appropriate, a national consensus can be reached. By the way, István Simicskó's comment was more in this direction, who actually made a professional comment. He talked about it, but I couldn't find that word in the bill. Although cyber warfare is indeed included, hybrid warfare is not included. Indeed, there is almost no NATO meeting today, or there is no parliamentary assembly where members of defence committees, national security committees or foreign affairs committees take part, where we would not talk about the threat of hybrid warfare. Besides, there is one such centre created by the European Union, but also supported by NATO. This is called a European centre against hybrid threats, to which Hungary has interestingly not joined. Now maybe, I don't know, 9+14, I don't even remember the exact number, but now there are over 20 countries that have joined this centre of excellence. I ask Minister why we do not join this centre of excellence and why we do not have hybrid warfare in this approach. After all, hybrid warfare is today a priority topic for all security policy forums. I trust that you are not included in this material because, in general, when we talk about hybrid warfare, the second word that is usually related to this is Russia. So don't let it stop you from dealing with this, that Putin comes here as often as if he's coming home, and maybe that's why you're afraid to deal with this. My other question would be that, as you have also spoken about it, my Fidesz fellow Member has said that it is the duty of every citizen to protect the country, how the creation of the firing range stands. As I understand it, it was the Prime Minister's desire, his wish to have a gun range in every walk. Really, so it's like a clinic. There's no walking without a firing range. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] We don't need a district office. We just need a gun range. I say I like to shoot, and I often go to sports shooting. In English, how many shooters have been handed over? Because they've been talking about it for over a year now. How many hundred and seventy walks? Has it been 100 or 76? Or how does this new MSZ stand? 'Cause first they shut down the MDS, then they created the MHS, almost the same foundational document as before. The task of this, though it is a pity that István Simicskó has gone, because I am sure he could tell you more about this, because he is one of the father-masters of this, so I am sure he would know more, but he also needs to know how these gunners stand and how they are financed, and how many Fidesz municipalities were eager to provide an area for the local shooting range at the edge of the city? Usually people like these shotguns, so it's much easier to create them, it's like an athletic track. The other question is that they talk about it a lot, they always stress that the line obligation will not be re-introduced, but somehow each argument has the opposite effect. So I can hear what they're saying, but I'm not convinced that they don't want this line of obligations to be restored in some way. I hope that you will not have such an idea soon for the Prime Minister to reinstate the obligation, because all those attempts to come into the military in some form, because it is not very successful, so they may think that it is better to make this question mandatory. [[16.30]] I would like to make one more suggestion, and the fact that this national issue is difficult because of what many of my fellow Members have talked about, let me give you just one personal example, and this is a question of transparency. There is much you can say about how you manage public procurement and various purchases, but not transparently, it is quite certain, and now I mean transparency as a Member of Parliament with national security screening. I write a lot with the Ministry of Defence, and now it's a hobby, because I wanted to get access to certain contracts. This was offered by the Ministry itself, by the way. It hasn't been successful since then, because we can't find out who has the contracts, and the Ministry won't tell us, so we're gonna write each other a letter saying that I want to get access to the file, and they always write that they don't have the contract, and they don't even know where it is. Professionally, the Ministry has such prepared leadership that it has no shot at where they are stored or which public body is the holder of these contracts so that, where appropriate, access to the file can be requested. So, in Hungarian, and in transparency, it's not an excellent way to put what you're doing. As a last-to-last thought, Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa has used it several times today, that verbal amok running is a good word for you. That reminds me of the licking approach as a similar couple. [[Defiance.]] I think you're going in the right direction, you're going to become Secretary of State, I think that's how you do it, maybe in the Ministry of Defence. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You already have!]] That's right, I've been through this experience, and I've already been replaced. [[A statement from Jobbik's benches, which you'll have.]] So I've had the experience you've never had. And the other, and I would like to conclude the idea that there should be something positive, there is indeed one thing that everyone in this room will agree on, and that is that Hungarian soldiers perform excellently. It is a fact and true that wherever the Hungarian soldiers go and serve, it is certain that in the international community and within and outside NATO, the activities of these soldiers will be recognized and shown to be honorable in any country, so it will surely become the pride of the Hungarian nation. That is why I would also like to thank them, even if we do not agree with the ruling party and the government's activities, and sometimes there are heated debates in this House, but I am quite certain that it is also our duty to say from this position of opposition that we thank you for serving our country. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-19-124	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Agnes of Vada.
u2019-11-19-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We forgot today about an important day, because besides the fact that Elizabeth is celebrating her name today, today is International Men's Day. It is important to mention this because the bill is very much concerned with the issue of duty to war, and Mr Secretary of State has also mentioned that I would like to stay with the Secretary of State, and I would like to express my hope. So, Minister of State has also mentioned and has asked for the fact that it is Hungarian citizens aged 18-50 who have a permanent residence in Hungary who are required to go to war. On the occasion of the International Men's Day and with respect, I welcome all the Members who are sitting here and who are not sitting here, and of course also the Hungarian men on the occasion of this marked day, the European Union has published a statistic. According to statistics, the life expectancy of men in the European Union is 78 years, while the life expectancy of Hungarian men is 6 years less, 72 years. It is also part of this, and it is very important to talk about it, and it is really not possible to deny that the state of health of the Hungarian population, and it is now possible to argue that the health care system, the climate, the eating habits or what is, unfortunately, quite bad. This is also reflected in the statistics on this. I accept the argument that it was possible to win almost a million people from the point of view of military commitment, but I think that we should be very careful when we talk about what it is in the time period, that people can be persuaded not to be in peacetime, that is what I would like to emphasise, to protect the country. I therefore believe that this whole system should be rethinked in this regard, and that it is not worth playing with only in order to gain substantial extra numbers, plus writeable numbers. In addition, a significant proportion of the voters are indeed, as many of my fellow Members have mentioned, somewhat concerned by the fact that you are talking about the commitment of war, even if you are talking about the commitment of war outside the time of peace, or when, in the general statement of a proposal, you specifically point out that there will still be no military duty, while Mr Simicskó, who has actually spoken professionally on the part of the governing parties, criticized the 2004 government decision, which ended the military service in peacetime. You remember, fellow Members. By the way, it was Mr Simicskó who did not at that time support the elimination of the military service in Hungary during peacetime, while I believe that the Parliament had made the right decision at that time by moving towards the construction of the professional army. I would like to highlight it and return to the question of cyber warfare again, because we have talked relatively little about it. This is an area that is so for the military world, and that is the case in NATO, which is very new, yet very difficult to comprehend, and that is the knowledge of the new generation. Therefore, I recommend it for consideration, and I have said this on several occasions that this issue must be addressed not only at the level of the Hungarian Defence Forces, but also at the level of the Hungarian Government. The challenges coming from cyberspace to the state, obviously, are the responsibility of the state, the state must develop this institutional system, the apparatus, and train people or find the right people, but they must accept and understand that this requires very different people. NATO headquarters in Norfolk have also made it clear that, indeed, the traditional patterns that any country's army has ever thought about cyber warfare and cyber attacks will not work. This, in turn, requires new types of laws and new types of legislative thinking. So I think that if the issue of military, defence and security in the country is really considered to be national, then these issues need to be thought together, and any surprise, the next generation, the youngest generation, must be invited to talk and ask how they see it. Not to mention, and this is extremely important, every time it is said that Hungarian citizens have a dog's duty to protect their country. I think, to be honest with you, fellow Members, Hungarian citizens know this, and they will do their job. The question is that in this context, what we are seeing now in recent years, and my fellow Members have already talked about it, what the Hungarian citizen perceives from the protection of his country. You see that procurements are ongoing, procurements that they don't know anything about, or the pro-government members of the Defence and Police Committee, I note. Congressman Hubay will confirm that he has exactly as much information as I do, but all the other pro-government Members, which is not good. Which is not good, and not only is it not good because, as you mentioned earlier, it is opaque, it is a suspicion of corruption, it is a confusion, but it is not good because these purchases are really, if they are a national issue, we should support them together. But you can't support it by saying, although Lőrinc Nacsa, why I can't detect the program Zrinyi 2026, because two helicopters flew in yesterday. Yeah. And then maybe three will fly in tomorrow. That's not the program, Congressman Zrinyi 2026. A program of military technology development, with all due respect, doesn't mean there's a colorful notebook with beautiful pictures in it, and every two days, there's a device, and every three days, someone's holding a press conference. It's a government document, backed up by numbers, backed up by the contract. You should know that the price of a military device is not the highest. [[16.40]] The infrastructure, training, if any, is related to the purchase of weapons and other equipment, which means real costs. I accept that there are tactical, military-technical parameters that cannot be disclosed, because it cannot be made public, there has never been a dispute in this, but there is no such thing in the world that members of the National Assembly's Defence and Police Committee cannot recognize these contracts. We turned to the Minister of Defence in a letter to help us understand that from the spring of 2018, so from his entry into office until September, we said then, we could now conclude December what contracts have been signed, because what the citizen hears from the Minister on television in the procurement, then what we see as assets arrive, what the Prime Minister announces that we have purchased, what is in the discharge from public procurement, and what the Secretary of State spoke about is not in any harmony with each other. It is not my job, and it is not the job of any of the Members here to judge whether the equipment of a military device is adequate. That's why the soldiers are here, and they'll tell you what kind of military technology is needed for a particular task. Our job is to provide resources for them, but to ensure that they are transparent. If I had to guess, I would say, fellow Members, that you have concluded long-term 10-15-year contracts with annual payments, and it is highly likely that, if, say, this year, you will have to pay a little bit this year, you will have to pay a little again in 2019 and 2020 and you will have to pay a little in 2021, and in 2022, when there are parliamentary elections, you will only have to pay a large amount of money after the election. These are the methods that you use, and that is the truth, which is why we would like to see these contracts, so that they can be discussed with full knowledge and responsibility that these purchases are useful and good. Not to mention the fact that the Secretary of State has said what has been achieved over the past few years, this acquisition is a bit clumsy, and the reason why this acquisition is such a clumsy one, is because it can be seen that they have also made political deals. When they talk about fighting vehicles being bought, we know that they were purchased from German companies, Mr Secretary of State either confirms it or not, whether they are bought or not, or are rented or not, we know nothing, it is obviously also the purchase of silence. It was said that they were buying Turkish armored equipment. There is an agreement that was concluded last year by someone from the Hungarian government and someone from the Turkish government regarding Hungarian-Turkish military technical cooperation. We do not know what the result of the present visit to Erdoğan was, apart from the fact that Budapest was paralyzed, but we would like to know this information, there is a rumor that we are going to buy something from there as well. We hear that the Prime Minister's visit to the United States of America mentioned the purchase of an American system on Norwegian grounds. What we don't know is whether there's such a purchase, or if it's just a pre-notification at the convention, but there's something going on, there's some kind of promise, and the Americans themselves aren't there to decide these matters at the convention. So, I think that, I say once again, the Zrínyi 2026, which, in a government decision, could not be fixed a good plan, a real national, military development plan, but at the moment we see ad hoc purchases taking place based on what is the political interest. In conclusion, I would like to talk about the national interest of the military, but it is also in the national interest that opposition representatives speak in as many places as possible. Unfortunately, this is not possible in Magyar Television, but there are televisions that make this possible. So I will not be able to continue to participate in the debate because I have to go to a television, but I can tell you in advance, Mr Secretary, that neither this law nor the next law nor the following law, which was tabled by the Military Security Service, will be supported, and not because we are opposition representatives, but because you are in these matters, whether it be Hungarian participation in the operation against the Islamic State or the draft law on procurement, will not give any preliminary information, so that yesterday, at the hearing of the Military National Security Service, the minister was finally sitting there personally, who very rarely appears before the committee and before Parliament, because he does not like this genre. By the way, I would like you to tell the Minister that, unfortunately, there is not only a pleasant, smiling part of the ministry, but there is also an unpleasant part of it that needs to be answered to the opposition representatives' questions and sometimes it is necessary to talk to opposition representatives. This is only important because it is so that someone can wear a uniform and become a soldier in their eternal life, but being a minister or a secretary of state is a condition that passes quickly. My fellow Member, Attila Mesterházy, said that he was already a State Secretary, and the fact is that he is not. I can tell you that I've already been Secretary of State, although it turns out I was an extremely powerful Secretary of State, but then what happened is that I'm not, I'm a Member of Parliament. Nevertheless, I would like to make it clear to everyone in this Parliament that there are very few of us who are monitoring the case of the army, very many of us who are here and who are not here do not address this issue. We really do care about the military. We are not arguing with you because we do not respect soldiers and we do not know the work they are doing, and I can say that the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces have very, very rarely disappointed us, you have disappointed us more than once, but not us, but the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces. They're all soldiers, their job is to protect this country, everyone in this country, everyone, regardless of whether it's Christian, whether it's Fidesz, DK, whether it's MSZP, LMP or better, it doesn't matter. We have found that they have always done this work with honor. I'd like to ask you to remember that there's no Fidesz army. There is an army, the Hungarian national army, and in the interests of this army, steps must be taken that truly serves to do their job, to do their main work, to protect us. So I would also like to thank them for their work and wish the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces further success. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-19-126	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2019-11-19-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I didn't want to comment any more either, but since it was about the holidays or anniversaries in the words of my fellow Member Ágnes Vadai, I would like to say that on this day in 1840 at the General Assembly of Pest County, Lajos Kossuth said to István Széchenyi that he was the largest Hungarian. It is such an important legacy for us that it is okay to mention it on this day in this House. And why did I bring this memory on the subject of defence? Simply because he was the largest Hungarian, his ambition was to use his own assets, his own resources, to make Hungary the strongest country, the country with the most serious resources, in knowledge, in the asset system, in social formation and in the economy in that particular historical situation. I am also pleased that I have now remembered this in the defense law, because, due to its greatest Hungarian spirit, I would like to tell you what I would expect of the defence government, for example, when presenting a legislative proposal or even a new bill. Yeah, it's also in this legislation, in its justification that it's a national matter of defence. But if it's a national matter of defence, why can't Members of Parliament representing the nation be part of the legislative process? Why can it not be done to call a seven - party meeting when there is already a legislative amendment or a bill? I do not believe that any of you, whether those who work in the government or the MPs in the government, have, in the last year and a half, found that either of us did not express ourselves in the interests of defence, we would not have said that we were cooperating in everything that we saw as a means of protecting our citizens. [[16.50]] The fact that we're making criticisms is never against you, it's for you. It's for the nation, for the welfare and security of the people. But it is also true that we would very much like to spend it in the most efficient way from the very serious amounts of tax forints that people add up from the simple working man to the university professor, and that everything costs as much as it needs to be and only buy as much as it really needs to be. I will try to get the Secretary of State to discuss it with the Minister, not to be ashamed to invite the representatives of the seven parties to consult before submitting a bill. We promise we won't mess with you. We promise we'll understand what you want. We promise we'll never do anything that we agree on, and we won't. If we lay hands on what we see there, then it will be so in plenary and in Parliament, and none of us will strive for press sensations, but for the people to see that he has representatives in Parliament. Let this wallet speak to us at the level of legislation. Of course, I have to say, I'm very concerned that these proposals may not be made at the wallet, and then how would you invite anyone to agree? But at least formally when it's done. It is very interesting that in the past year and a half, almost the most easiest debates occur on two topics: sport funding and defence. Strangely enough, proposals on home affairs may have minor disagreements, but such verbal battles never occur. On the one hand, for example, because the Minister of the Interior is holding seven-party consultations at these moments in the Ministry of the Interior on the basis of an otherwise completely modest and necessary legislative package. What I don't understand is why the defense wallet, whose sanctity as a matter, is just as important to everyone in this House. Well, we're all talking about our lives and the safety of all of us. And at Europe's borders, there are such terrible fires that a crisis can take such a course that we can be part of it at any time. So what we want is for us to be a creative factor in this, too, for us to be the people who add our positive role to this, and not to be forced to have this very important issue in debates at plenary sessions. You must understand that the government must always be generous in the relationship between government and opposition representatives, because the system of means is in his hands. He must be the first to be given a hand, and then the representatives of the opposition parties will be given a hand. But it is not always the case that we have to tell our sense of absence, the negative processes that we are part of, and we may be trying to show that we are not serving the most sacred cause of the nation, but simply want to talk, to be puffed, and to be present. No, not at all. I would not speak to him once if I could come to this House without having to say anything, we agreed on everything in the seven-party agreement, the proposal that everyone can accept came in, the exposé is said, the opposition representatives say with a sentence that I support him, because he has what society needs, and we sit down and we are over it. But no, there's always some kind of bad mood and a bad feeling that the Ministry brings to the House that we're forced to do what we do. So, with all due respect, I'm asking you to start offering each other peace, but the Ministry has to reach out first. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-19-128	Thank you, Congresswoman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed, and I give the floor to Mr Szilárd Németh, State Secretary, so that he can say the rejoinder.
u2019-11-19-129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There was a long debate, and in the end we heard that peace should be given to each other. I agree deeply with that, but it should not be the first time, in the first speech with even feet into the proposal and the authors, then perhaps it would be possible to say that we can talk to each other. Although this dialogue has its place and role in the Parliament. Two of them said that they could not intervene in legislation, and how good it would be if, together with the ministries, the Members of Parliament could work on the creation of these laws. Since Montesquieu, there has been a principle of power-sharing, power-sharing, either legislation and law enforcement, or law enforcement, so judicial work, judicial work, or government work. This in itself shows that the role you are in is not entirely clear. This was well seen all along, where the minister, where the Prime Minister, tried to bring everything together here, seven-and-a-half months, and they acted like simple comedians. Attila Mesterházy had already left, and I learned well from what he said, it was really funny, but it wasn't for legislative amendments to the National Assembly and the Hungarian defence laws. Although Congresswoman Vadai, Secretary of State, said that she did not want to take over the role of soldiers, what happened was that instead of soldiers, they began to think about what the Hungarian Defence Forces should look like, what kind of military development, defence development should be, and more people here have shared it with us. But I don't think the biggest problem is related to this misrepresentation or conflicted thinking, but to what they said about purchasing. I didn't quite get it. One of them obviously stole the government, the defense minister, the whole system, and the soldiers who decide the procurements, the other thinks they're completely incompetent, and they think that the Ministry's secret rooms are gonna be decided, nothing public, nobody can know anything. Well, hell, yeah. First of all, the Orbán government has three key pillars of military procurement. On the one hand, soldiers cannot be excluded from this. They are the most important, because they know what is needed in the Hungarian Defence Service. The separation of the Hungarian Defence Office and the Ministry of Defence took place for a reason from 1 January this year, as I informed you in the Expoze, but you are aware of this, especially the two committees, the National Security and Defence Committee and the National Security Committee. We must state that what the Hungarian soldiers want in the organizational system in which they work is the development that takes place, is the development of forces and defence. That defence career model, that human policy model, that recruitment model and that military-technical development they decide to develop. They know exactly what they're doing. This is influenced by the need to find the most optimal way, and here the best way is to think about the price. We are not looking at companies, we are not looking at countries, we are looking at what is needed and at what cost and from whom can be obtained. This is very important. So you have to think at an optimal price. And it is very important that I also strengthen the role of the public. Two weeks ago, a major interview was given by the director of arms, the government commissioner responsible for the development of forces, in which he clearly described everything, all directions, everything, not at the committee meeting or in front of Parliament, but simply in front of the public of the country. In particular, he also talked about what tools are expected to be purchased and what tools are produced in Hungary. So Hungarian interests must be served, which is the most important thing in this story, so that the Hungarian economy can benefit. I have also talked about this, and the next item on the agenda will also be that it is in this interest when we talk about the development of the defence. And obviously the most important thing is that the defence must serve the sovereignty of the country and the security of the Hungarian people. [[17.00]] That is why we need to create a modern, powerful army, which is the most prominent in the region. What the Members can read, what they can't read, what information can they get? The Ministry of Defence has always given all the representatives, but most importantly the representatives of the commission and the officials there, full access to information and opportunities to access information, even in individual military personnel, in person. When I was president of HRB, I regularly held so-called off-site meetings at various sites and stations. I must say, these have always been good. I was also at a national security committee meeting where Ágnes Vadai was the president, and with him in several places, together with Pakson, TEK and several military forces, we shared information on the work done there, how soldiers live, what they do, what they acquire, what they do. In fact, there was always time to see what the committee could do to help them do their job as much as possible. On the other hand, about the specifics. In the Defence and Police Committee, when procurement takes place, an exemption from public procurement should be requested. These waivers do not take place in the case of l. art pour l. art. Instead, the Ministry comes, reports on how you would like to ask for an exemption, what kind of asset purchase, justifies the acquisition of the equipment, and in a year's time, 12 months' time, it is necessary to report to the committee, and there it is necessary to clarify what assets have been acquired in the value it cost. These are top secret agendas, but everyone knows that. There's only so much ash here that this doesn't happen. When I was chairman of the committee, we decided on several of these purchases, and there were always reports where, by the way, the information that was not involved could be given to everyone, every single one of them. Of course, this information should not and should not be misused, because otherwise the safety of Hungarian soldiers and the security of the whole country could be compromised. So I would like to ask my fellow Members with great respect to think that once they say to the people here that they share our view that defence is a national matter and that more than the Hungarian Defence Service, more than the Ministry of Defence, and more than we can do here in Parliament, because it is in the interests of the whole country, because it is the duty of all Hungarians to defend their country, so do not say that neither this nor the laws that have not yet been debated will be supported. So how can you think of the national consensus on defence and what Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea said? So, with all due respect, I urge you to reconsider, please support this bill. And, of course, if you wish to participate in this legislative process, then there are the committees where the material must go through as a first-placed committee, the detailed debate there, the TAB as the main committee on this issue, and there is the possibility that individual representatives' proposals, amendments, proposals will be made. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-19-130	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Next up is the 2016 XXX on defence and security procurement. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The government referral is T/8031. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I also give the floor to Mr Szilárd Németh, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2019-11-19-131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, As I mentioned here at the end of the previous agenda, security is our fundamental national interest, creation and maintenance of it is our duty and duty as enshrined in the Fundamental Law of Hungary. In order to ensure the safety of Hungary and Hungarian citizens, the Hungarian government has launched the largest and most comprehensive programme of defence and military development in the last 35 years. With the implementation of the Hungarian Defence and Defence Development Programme, Zrínyi 2026, the Hungarian Defence Office is on a course of development, which will further strengthen the military defence of both the NATO federal system and Europe. In the framework of military technical developments, we acquire tools that meet the needs of the Hungarian Defence Forces, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, take the economic interests of the country into account, on the other hand, the purchase goods are the most optimal. So we serve national interests. In the course of military development, military and professional aspects are the guiding factors, complex systems and capabilities are developed along a programmed strategy, according to military professional and operational needs. This programme provides the opportunity for Hungary to play a leading role in maintaining the security of the region. Developments will allow us to make an ever greater offer to increase and sustain NATO's contingency forces in order to address unforeseen threats. In order to preserve the sovereignty of our country, the financial coverage required for the programmes is ensured by the ever-increasing budget, as promised, and by 2024 we will increase defence expenditure to the level recommended by NATO, 2% of GDP. Hungary will thus be one of the safest countries in Europe and a country guaranteeing freedom for its citizens. At present, procurement on defence and security matters is not covered by the Public Procurement Act, and rules on the conduct of centralised procurement on this subject are not applicable under the current rules. Contrary to the socialist-liberal military and security-destructive governments, the Hungarian government, formed by the Fidesz-KDNP association, is committed to achieving the stated goals, developing the Hungarian Defence Forces and increasing the security of Hungary. As part of this, the proposed legislation establishes the basic rules necessary for efficient and legitimate operation of defence and security procurement. The bill defines the concept of procurement, the category of subjects of central procurement, i.e. the budgetary bodies in which the State exercises a majority or indirect influence under the Civil Code. On the basis of the bill, in order to establish the implementing rules, the government is authorised to determine the conditions and subject matter of centralised procurement, the entity authorised to tender, the detailed rules for centralised procurement, the possibility of voluntary accession, the contract for implementation and the way in which the costs of centralised procurement are borne. With regard to the rules contained in the bill, we stress that these provisions contain, in line with the rules of procedure laid down and regulated by the Public Procurement Act, the statutory requirements for centralised procurement used as a model. Dear fellow Members, We hope that, during the negotiation of the bill, all Members will focus primarily on the right objectives and our national interests. In view of this, I would ask the honourable Members to support the bill with their vote in favour in order to ensure the freedom of our country. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-19-132	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to György Hubay, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-11-19-133	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Allow me to share some thoughts about the bill and its main points. In Hungary, the Hungarian Defence Forces have undergone exemplary development in recent years, and this process has not yet come to an end. After all, we have set ourselves a number of development goals in the programme of defence and force development in Zrínyi 2026, which are essential for us to have a strong, well-prepared and modern army. [[17.10]] The development is accompanied not only by this programme, but also by a number of procurements in general, which we need transparency and maximum professionalism in terms of procurement, so that we can modernise the Hungarian Defence Service by technology that meets the expectations of the age and ensure its everyday operation. According to the Government's decision, the possibility of centralised procurement should also be provided for defence and security purchases in the future. Under this decision, the possibility of creating rules that are essential for the conduct of centralised procurement should be provided for in the future in the form of a mandate at the level of a government regulation. From the bill, it can be concluded that the amendment is clearly designed to establish the main rules for centralised procurement. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the positive objectives set out in the bill, I do not want to go further on the need for them, so I ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-19-134	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Andrea Varga-Damm, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2019-11-19-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In fact, on the subject of this proposal, I could say that we don't care who gets the tools, just get what we need, and for what the real market price is. But I am not going to finish this speech so much, given that there are two elements in this proposal that I, as a Member of Parliament, am looking at with reasonable doubt. I would like to add so much to Mr Secretary of State's comment on the previous proposal, when he spoke about the division of power in Montesquieu, that, yes, the government is not creating legislation, that is, laws, but Parliament. You are a representative of the government here, and you are proposing to Parliament that you may vote for a law. But he's making a suggestion, and Parliament doesn't have to vote for it, it does. [[István Szilárd Németh: I agree!]] Yes, that's the principle of separating the two branches of power. But when a Member of Parliament says that before he makes a proposal to a government, it is worth consulting in advance with Members or parties who have a political group in Parliament, so that when he brings this request to the House, he may find much more openness than is today. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] The reason why we often say our criticisms is because if we had taken an hour to get to know the idea and perhaps we ourselves would have made the proposals that, if you put it forward, there is a greater chance of a positive response, we might indeed be able to rid ourselves of a lot of debate. It is apparent from this proposal, and as much as I do not want to hurt the defence wallet, my words are now somewhat more concerned, so with this bill, if Parliament votes for it, and it is likely to do so, then the defence wallet will take the procurement system out of its hands. So the soldiers take what they buy out of their hands in order to maintain the defence system. When the Orbán government set up a centralised public procurement institution in the early 2010s, this centralised public procurement was specifically designed to create the general purchasing tools or instruments needed for almost all elements of public life, government, offices, public sector and local government. I'll give you one example: prison companies, for example, manufacture clothes, capes, work clothes, work shoes. They also tried to obtain the various household, hygiene and necessary tools in central public procurement, just in order to make the price optimal, really predictable, not to employ procurement staff in each organisation, which was very welcome. By the way, I think you've saved a lot of budget money. But if you place the defence wallet in the central purchasing relationship, it means that the defence wallet may have a say in the fact that when it really needs to obtain the tools to protect the home in the central purchasing process, decisions will not be taken at the defence wallet, but at this central purchasing organization. For me, this is certainly an exercise from the defence wallet, which means for me that the defence wallet cannot bear all the important elements of this field and even the most important elements of this field, since we are probably not talking about the purchase of office supplies, but we are probably talking about procurement in a complete military development programme. Let me take one more question for you. During the discussion of the last proposal, it was said that this defence development is actually the new stadium. I'd like to hope that the defense procurement isn't the new stadium. But it is also a fact that we can get very little information from the defence wallet in relation to where the tools to be acquired in the operation system will be organised, how, how, and how, professionals who only operate them in the operational system will be trained to use these tools themselves, and how the tools will relate to each other, since the ground, the air defense system is double, but one supports the other, there is no need to open a professional discussion about this here. But the point is that it is just a system like any system in the world, and it has to be organised much more precisely, because a mistake can cause enormous damage, so it can cause financial damage and even damage to human life. After not seeing at all this conscious, organized system in this Zrínyi 2026, in which they fit the tools they acquire, that is why there is this type of mistrust on the part of the opposition. But I would like to stress that it is our great pride that in the Hungarian defence system there are still quality soldiers who bring only the salvation of our country in any international competition. There is no mission, there is no quota posted, there is no international competition, there is no international... How do we say that, I'm sorry, when we simulate war? [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: War practice!]] My apologies, drills. The result will always be that Hungarian soldiers are highlighted, and they have tremendous authority in international space. They really do everything in their work to make sure that when we talk about and support that system, there are proposals worthy of their level, debates worthy of it, and that each soldier feels that when we may criticize something, we should do so in order to make this system even more worthy of their existing level. I do not think it is right that all elements of the whole centralised purchasing system, but even the establishment of the organisational system, are regulated in a government decree. This system will be completely withdrawn from Parliament's control. That's not possible. Civil control exists everywhere in democratic countries also above the system of defence, and in almost all areas of public life, because in no way can decisions be made that do not serve expediency and the interests of the nation, but also serve the individual or group interest. [[17.20]] I must therefore say that I cannot give you the answer right now to support this proposal, because of this very dangerous element. Because if it were in this proposal that the law would create the organization itself, because it is an organization of a government, it is created by the legislator, the legislator. But, of course, the government decree can determine how many people are hired there, how it works, how the procurements are written out, how the tender is done, if it is different from the provisions of the public procurement law, it should already do so, because they are detailed rules. But even the institutional system will be set up in a government decree, I very much do not recommend that. Do it, Mr State Secretary, that, where these proposals are being made, you should discuss with each other that it should not at least be taken out of it that even the organisation is created by a government decree, because we do not know where it will be placed in the government system, and for now the entire system of government must be defined by law, and whether you like it or not, this will be an important element. So I'm really asking you to pay attention to this, and I want you to discuss this with each other. However, there is a very different, very interesting and very juicy part of this proposal, and this is who is excluded from the central procurement, who is the largest lobbyist in the government in Hungary; you can find one: the Hungarian National Bank and its associated foundations. How interesting. He works out of public money, he manages public money, he has the common property of the Hungarian people, if anyone should obtain everything in central procurement, because, on the one hand, it is in the interest of our country, and on the other hand, it is in the interest of transparency, and since it has been necessary for a lawsuit to state that the assets transferred by the Hungarian National Bank, with which he has created foundations, are public money, and every normal person knows precisely that public money and public property, if even this was required to be sued, now imagine what a purchasing system could be like for the Hungarian National Bank and its associated institutions, if such an important law, which is basically about that, for the next year, helicopters, military equipment, weapons, will then be managed, cared for, done and executed by an organization which will be set up in centralized procurement, and will then be withdrawn from such important legislation as the Hungarian National Bank and its associated institutions. Mr Secretary of State, my fellow Members on the Fidesz side, I do not like this, and to be honest, I hope that you do not like this either. They're never gonna admit it, they can't, but at least they're gonna say it to themselves, that's not gonna happen. So who is György Matolcsy and his institutional system, who is actually that state in the state in a way that is lavishing, living, handing over wealth here and there, cannot be seen what he is doing, and can even exclude himself from centralised procurement by apologizing for the most serious risk in the National Bank of Hungary, such as the acquisition of IT? ! 'Cause I guess the vault isn't that complicated, the toilet paper and the office supplies probably aren't. So why am I asking Mr. Secretary of State for an answer because it wasn't made up by the Secretary of State and not by his ministry, but I hope someone will answer that question, why is it that this organizational system is getting out of here? I would have hoped that if this was the case in the legislation, they would write in the justification that the Hungarian National Bank and the organizations it created did not include it, because; therefore, why something, why they are special, why their centralised procurement could not take place in this form, or why they would not be included in the centralised procurement. The value of this proposal is therefore unbelievably damaged by the establishment of an organisation with a government decree, and the exception of the Hungarian National Bank and its associated institutions, if they want centralised procurement at all costs, from this system. So I cannot say at this moment that the Group will support this proposal. We simply need to consider this and look at the risks of yes or no or abstention, so I ask with great respect that you accept this position. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-19-136	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2019-11-19-137	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, With regard to public procurement, existing legal standards ensure the necessary conditions and rules for the conduct of centralised public procurement. However, among the exceptions laid down in the Public Procurement Act, it does not cover, inter alia, procurement on defence and security matters. However, this also means that rules on the conduct of centralised public procurement are not applicable to defence and security procurement under the rules currently in force. In order to apply a system of rules similar to the conduct of centralised public procurement for defence and security procurement, it is inevitable to amend the law on defence and security procurement, which is now before us. In view of the fact that centralised procurements for defence and security procurement have not yet been carried out, the legislative proposal should provide for a set of basic rules necessary for efficient and legitimate operation, as well as the appropriate level and content of authorisations. In order to implement what has already been said, the draft law defines the concept of centralised procurement as well as the subjects of central procurement. Central procurement may be subject to government-led, then supervised budgetary bodies, foundations or public foundations established by the government or subject to the exercise of its founding right, and with the exception of certain companies in which the State is the Ptk. it exercises a majority influence or indirect influence. It is important to point out that the bill ensures, for the subjects of centralised procurement on defence and security matters, that organisations which are not covered by the above mentioned subject matter can voluntarily join the centralised procurement procedure, such as the Parliamentary Guard. In addition to the definition of basic concepts and centralised procurement, it is essential to provide for a mandate at the level of the government regulation in order to establish implementing rules. In addition to laying down basic procedural rules, the government would be authorised to designate the body implementing the centralised procurement in a Regulation. With regard to the rules contained in the bill, it is important to point out that these provisions, in line with the rules of procedure laid down and regulated by the Public Procurement Act, include, as a model, the statutory requirements for centralised procurement. Both in Mr Secretary of State's exposé and in his speech by the lead speaker of my fellow Member, Mr Fidesz, highlighted the main details, as well as the connection to public procurement rules and the need for amendment, so we do not have the indecision, as in the better political group, we will support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-19-138	Thank you, Congressman. The MSZP Group... [[For signal:]] I'm sorry. I see that there will be a speaker from the MSZP group, so I give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó.
u2019-11-19-139	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I am also helping my better fellow Members and my fellow Vice-President: this bill is simply not eligible, and I do not think that Parliamentary Member can take it in his name. And not because I will mention the concerns we have about how centralised public procurement is currently taking place in Hungary, but because of what you said, my fellow Member. Obviously, the non-legislative proposal does not bother Mr. Nacsa that a two-page bill will be passed for spending a few hundred-thousand billion forints, in which there are practically so many rules that Parliament will come down from this area, thank you very much, and at the level of regulation, the government will do whatever it wants. I don't think a responsible congressman can vote for that. From then on, you will not be able to guarantee what will take place there, either for your constituents or for any other authority in any subsequent procedure. I don't think it's good, and it's not fair. This bill goes so far as not to ask for authorisation to implement the detailed rules, my fellow Member, but also to whom it will apply, what it will apply and what system of organisations it will be resolved. [[17 .30]] I have a feeling that this law could be such a lex Maróth law, because if I understand it correctly, you will now vote on a law in two pages for Mr Maróth and do it in this area with an organizational structure, with any procedure you want. It's probably happening today anyway. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] But now they're writing a law about it. Well, I want a congressman on his feet who can vote for that with a good heart. Central public procurement in a normal country can be quite natural, although I add, I do not know how well my fellow Members are aware that, for example, fantastic central public procurement in the area of public administration works so well that in an average administration body, let us say that if a copy machine has to be repaired or a photocopier has to be replaced, they should mean it literally for weeks or even months! They're waiting through the central public procurement, because they can't afford to have a body with a billion-dollar budget for a bloody printer paint go out, bounce out of the store, and buy you so that your colleagues can work so that this can happen. I think that this is neither efficient nor normal, and we obviously have some reservations in this regard that this would happen elsewhere or differently in this regard. There is also a very famous central purchasing system for Hungary, a central administration system for the use of EU funds. You know, Mr. Nacsa, this is the one that makes it 500 billion, but it may fall from 700 billion forints... [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: You don't know!]] He doesn't know. [[Nacsa Lawrence: No! That's not true.]] Then I'll inform you that you have one of these. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true! That's not true.]] and for which the Hungarian government has absorbed the fact that it is already releasing 10 percent of the investment of nearly 5000 billion dollars. And before you believe what the Prime Minister said here in Parliament yesterday with great confidence, which was at least such a stupidity that it would not cost Hungary money, please understand: these investments have been made, these are already paid in advance by the Hungarian state, the Hungarian taxpayers, and we will not receive them from the European Union. So 500 billion forints of taxpayer money was burned in this regard, period. [[Nacsa Lawrence: No!]] [[Nacsa Lawrence: No!]] [[Nacsa Lawrence: No!]] [[Nacsa Lawrence: No!]] Yes! (Lőrinc Nacsa: No!) Yes! (Lőrinc Nacsa: No!) Oh, yeah. (Lőrinc Nacsa: No!) Feel free to look into it. Based on such experience, therefore, I would be even less relaxed if any new central purchasing organisation, otherwise out of control of Parliament, were to stand up, but I think I will once again say that I am not groping the wrong way, if this were to be about the actual state of being a government commissioner as a completely foreign solution to the defence wallet, I think what is Mr Maróth? The government commissioner, or something very similar, spend the defense money. [[István Szilárd Németh: Oh, how funny! Hahaha!]] Plus, I'd like to add, Mr. Secretary, I've heard that you've been very underappreciated, but obviously that's true. [[István Szilárd Németh: I did not disrespect, but smiled well at stupidity!]] That's... This law, which was originally adopted, has a very nice title, really: the law on procurement for defence and security purposes, adopted in 2016, looks as if procurement for defence and defence purposes should be carried out according to very nicely, transparently and otherwise fantastically defined rules. Tell me, Mr. Secretary of State, and then one procurement, a large state defense procurement, acquired under this law in the last few years since this law came into force. One! Well, all they're doing is coming to the defense committee meeting, and they're getting everything from this law and from all the laws, with immunity from public procurement, the last time we counted it, it's over a thousand billion forints. [[Márta Demeter: Yes!]] You know what that means? It means they're avoiding this law by this procedure. I wouldn't be able to vote for an amendment to a Patymkin law, which once again describes beautiful procedures for getting something fair, but you've done all the defense procurement you've done by circumventing this law. I barely remember or even know of any procurement that was actually made by the implementation of this law. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Nothing!]] I still have the feeling that, on the basis of the authority given to me by the Defense Commission, Maróth's company has done the procurements, and now they're getting a law so that they can actually do the whole thing. At the moment, we do not receive, nor do we see, any other meaningful answer to this bill. And I'm really closing with that, Mr. Secretary of State, if you can tell me that the 2016 XXX on procurement for defence and security purposes By law, the defense has made such a serious acquisition over the last two years, I may even withdraw what I have said or said, but once again, it is apparent from the operation of the Defence Committee that you cannot do so. We do not support this bill. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-19-140	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2019-11-19-141	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. Allow me here, in relation to the previous remarks made by the Secretary of State, which, by the way, may be more linked to this law than to the other one, to a few referrals. One is that you mentioned that military procurement cannot be missed. But, Mr. Secretary, you've never asked the soldiers before, so that's also terrible. Obviously, some self-proclaimed politicians must have had their say in things, so you can see that, but that's not the stock. So they didn't ask the pilots, they didn't ask the people who would ultimately use these devices. To this day, it is still a question for me that what they are getting will be parked in one of the hangars or outdoors, don't give me a god, where the weather, by the way, will constantly depreciate these devices, because where there will be stock and money for this operation. But I'm sure someday we'll get some answers from the press. So far, the real stakeholders have been excluded from the procurement, some of the military lobby has certainly been involved, and Maróth Gáspár has done all the procurements so far. Since the money has been paid for this, for the past year and a half, I say that as we speak about this HUF 1000-1400 billion, this was all at Maróth Gáspár. Where were the soldiers asked here? The second thing: I do not think that transparency is the fact that the government commissioner entrusted with the procurement is once, once and for all, making a statement in the Hungarian press. Well, really, otherwise, we are extremely honored, and certainly all Hungarian citizens, too, have once deserved to say a few sentences. But I'd like to ask you: 1,400 billion forints is worth that, a piece of press release? I don't think that's how it should be treated. And then it could be a very sad conclusion that the democratic control of the force would then be equal to reading the newspaper. I think it's a very sad thing. And, yes, we should report it to the committee, tell them what they bought, how much they bought, what it looks like, but it doesn't happen. As Congresswoman Vadai has said, she has now been asking for more than a year to see the Falcon aircraft she has purchased, and I find it infuriating as vice-president of the committee. I think that Szilárd Németh, Secretary of State, should be president of the Defence Committee, if you say that, by the way, in your time, these reports were made, and you did manage to get them to happen at the defence wallet, all the preliminary notices on procurements, although I do not remember this, or ex post reports... [[István Szilárd Németh: His memory is short!]] Then you must be the chairman of the committee, not the candidate for the post of minister. With regard to procurements, I must mention so much and allow me to quote from 2016, because in 2016 there was a debate here in Parliament on defence and security purchases, and several Members also mentioned what these purchases look like and let me give you just one example. For example, the park of the Ludovika campus, i.e. the parking itself, the hedge, was achieved by defence procurement and thus excluded from the scope of public procurement. That is what we are thinking, when I say, that corruption is a hotbed, as is the law on defence and security procurement and the whole process, as we are treating the thousands of billions of taxpayers. [[István Szilárd Németh: Funny!]] Well, then it's like this, so I think it's funny, but we could cry on it with examples, unfortunately, to illustrate this. My question about the law is when it will be repealed. The question is not what is being modified, but when will it be repealed. Because it doesn't work to exclude procurements from everything, to have a committee discharge, to have a separate law, but to have nothing to do with it otherwise, Lord God, so that it doesn't become transparent and verifiable, but if they bring the procurements into the committee and ask for permission to be exempted from public procurement, otherwise it is only the pro-government representatives who vote for it, so obviously this is your responsibility, then otherwise there is no need for this law. If, on the other hand, they are acting in accordance with this law, then why are they bringing these exemptions from public procurement before the committee? So one way or another, it looks like it's all about powder, and it's more of a goal here to hide from the public what the billions of taxpayers are doing. [[17.40]] So, as we have stressed in the drafting of the law, and I have stressed myself, this law is still not acceptable, they should pay particular attention to it, especially when it comes to such money, so that everything else works transparently, and that there should be adequate information about it to society. And whether you like it or not, I'm sure there's one of you who doesn't have a problem with that, but there are those who do. The people are also exercising democratic control of the operation of the forces through their elected representatives, and I would like to stress it over the ministries and so above the government, and that is the way it is to this day. Even though they try to restrict the rights of Members, even if they try to ban them from any control option or ban them from the troops of the defence, to this day, it is up to Members of Parliament to control the operation of the government, and I note it quietly: that is also the job of pro-government representatives. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2019-11-19-142	Thank you, Congresswoman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató in a normal time frame.
u2019-11-19-143	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Fellow Members! They will have to be deprived of professional details by Congresswoman Ágnes Vadai [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: We can stand it!]] I can only tell you that neither your past in the field of various public procurements justifies giving the government greater confidence in the ability to handle these defence procurements more freely, nor the international experience on the basis of which large-scale military procurements everywhere in the world are undoubtedly hotbeds of corruption, and require particularly careful control and particularly precise control, does not allow us to accept this bill. It is also bad enough that you are constantly redirecting the money for sport into different colourful areas, and everything is going to be nothing but sport; we hope that tonight we will find that the many billions of forints spent on football have not yet had any result, but we hope that today will change and this trend will reverse. But in terms of defence spending, this is a more delicate area, because the security of the country and the security of Hungarian soldiers and their lives are at stake here in how much you steal from this money. Therefore, a purchasing system that makes it easier to convert public funds into private money, which, by the way, you are undoubtedly great masters of, the Democratic Coalition cannot in any way support. Thank you very much. [[Marta Demeter applauds.]]
u2019-11-19-144	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2019-11-19-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I only asked for the floor because I would like to make a proposal to the rapporteur, or rather to the Deputy Prime Minister, because he is more disposing this proposal, I feel. There is a bill here, with this bill it is possible that if it had created this central procurement as a new system of government activity, it could have done so with the same bill to assign this system of tasks to an existing governmental factor, or to the Prime Minister's Office. The Prime Minister's Office, as we said in the debate on budget implementation last week, consumes 1200 billion in one year with its associated institutions. A lot of money comes in, a lot of money comes out, a lot of nothing comes out. So, uncontrolled, huge money flows through three institutions. If you wanted to create this now, or have the government set up with Parliament, why don't you call the child by name? Maróth Gáspár has already been appointed to the Prime Minister's Office for the task system that he will officially carry out with this rule. I don't understand. Either it was a rush, or you've lost your creativity, and now I'm stressing that this is by chance not for the Secretary of State or for the Ministry, because they certainly didn't make it up, that they don't even want to maintain the appearance that this is a coherent, well-designed and really like the knife in the butter system? That's from the point of view of what's going on, I gotta tell you, it's a crappy thing to do. Somehow, I imagine this conversation before or while this proposal was made and the lawyers said that it could be addressed to one of the nice legal ladies or gentlemen who gave the task of writing something like this that is good, but if it is a centralised procurement, and we say that it will be organized, then we should have an organisation to which we assign it; because this question has been asked by someone, that is for sure. And then his boss says, "Listen to me, write it down, we'll create it with a government decree." I think that the lawyer has called back, that, but, for the time being, a government body can still be set up by law, and I think that it should be a little bit even the Fundamental Law, but let's say that by law, and then he tells him that it's good, so everything goes through, and then what, and then the opposition is a little bit critical of the fact that you don't like it, but we're gonna vote it anyway, and then we're gonna do it, and then no one finally sees anything, because the goal is not to see the bigger, big defence procurements either of Parliament or society. I can't really imagine any other circumstances. And then, even when the question of the National Bank comes, I can only imagine that someone told you to pay attention, if this is a centralised procurement, and if you don't like it, the Hungarian National Bank is a central organization that should be regarded as a part of the Hungarian government, then he will have to bring all his purchases here, too, and then by chance someone told you to yujujuj, wait, the sensitive area, Matolcsy will come here and do the show, so we don't take it away from him, I'll have to run the money here, there, there, there, no, we'll have to take it out, so we don't have to start with some huge discretion. So that's what I can imagine. I suggest, because there is still time for you to carry this through, to create the organization with this bill, or to install this task on an existing governmental factor, it would be a little clearer. But let me also say that it is also written here that it also defines the scope of procurement related to defence and security tasks in a government decree. In fact, the range of procurements related to defence and security tasks, I really do not want to be trivial, but also toilet paper; so everything that has to be purchased in the defence system has to be used. So now it's gonna be like everything from toilet paper to laser weapons in the government decree of the defense procurement system? Or how do we really imagine that? Although I might just put that question in the air. So, what I'm suggesting is that if this proposal, which I think is pretty doggy and not thoughtful, is here, then it could be done to make a good suggestion if you want to take this job away from the defence wallet at all costs. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-19-146	Thank you, Congresswoman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr Szilárd Németh for a reply.
u2019-11-19-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, We are no further ahead than the previous item on the agenda. Of course, the two items on the agenda are linked, so everyone is expressing their own views. [[17.50]] Here, it is clear how we pro-government and how the entire opposition stand to defend the country. I would like to continue to stress that the question of transparency and control was raised here by several people. I would continue to stress that this has been given to everyone, especially to Members, to the members of the committee. I don't want to repeat what their options are, and you know it. By the way, you can also read the reports of the Military National Security Service if you are tired of the Secretariat of the National Security Committee or the Secretariat of the Defence and Police Committee, so you can also get the most sensitive reports and information that you would like to receive, and you would like to use it to expand your knowledge, to expand your opportunity in terms of how you will help the Hungarian Defence Corps to make the development career that we have decided here until 2026 and which is already serious and visible. But, of course, the same is true of the Hungarian people, because there was no procurement that we would not have informed the people of. When we started to assemble at the small gun factory in Kiskunfélegyháza last year the handguns that our soldiers will use, here I am thinking of the Bren 2 machine rifles, the Scorpion EVO machine guns, and the handguns and pistols that are usually defined by the lengths 7 and 9. All of these could be seen by the audience, and they could practically meet with the patrolling soldiers, for example. Last year, the Christmas market was already secured by Hungarian soldiers with such weapons to ensure that everything was fine there. But since then, it has appeared on the news several times, several films are shown on YouTube, so those who are interested will, of course, have access to this information and view them. As a sign, Members could do so, and they could do so by being their representatives, either by organising a factory visit or by visiting the shooting range, so there is scope for this. But I could mention in May the day of defence that took place in the middle of May in Budaörs by linking the Hungarian heroes with the children's day. There were 70,000 visitors here. It should have been visited by opposition representatives. All the equipment we had acquired until May, the artillery devices, the self-propelled PzH 2000, the tanks, they were exhibited, the Carl Gustaf was presented here as well. On another occasion, you could also see the trial of this. So all the weapons we bought, which the committee gave us the authority to buy, and by absolving these procurements, they were all hand-to-hand, was a huge success. But yesterday or today on television, the Air Force commander reported that the two light helicopters, the H145 M helicopter, had arrived. He told me what it could be used for. The photos of the handover were presented there, and I think that soon, during an air show, people will be able to get to know them, as you could see the A319s, or the newly renovated Mi-8, Mi-17, Mi-24 helicopters at this show in Budaörs, or the famous Falcon machine, of course, and I think there is no reason why the members of the committee should be able to see this. So I don't know what you're talking about. And we have also made it clear that this change is necessary because in the three aspects of what soldiers' expertise, the main source of weapons procurement means, the source of knowledge is with the soldiers, they know what weapons to obtain for the development plan that they have developed, how to train people, what methods of storage there are... that's why it's scheduled, which is why it doesn't immediately break down the country's procurement of all the weapons, because everyone can very well see that this can only be obtained scheduledly, and the soldiers must be prepared for it. For example, Leopard's state-of-the-art tanks do not come at first pace, but only those that are two generations earlier come here, because training tasks can be perfectly solved with those tanks, and they are also ready for defence tasks, even for a possible defense task, and I think they will be ready for the task that we call a joint military exercise within NATO bonds. So this is precisely what we would like to strengthen with this bill, maintaining that, of course, we are talking about hundreds of billions of forints, it is a very big deal, and this business must also serve the other interests and economic interests of Hungary; we must help to boost production in Hungary again, for example, in the military industry. We now see good examples of this in Half-Egyháza and Gyula, and, of course, there are other plans. The purchase of the Austrian military industry also points in this direction. And once again, I would like to stress that any procurement that the Defence and Police Committee has given permission to grant a waiver is required in a year's time to report to the committee what has happened, what has been purchased, for how much, and how it will be used. So in this regard, no one has anything to fear. There are different positions here, and I think that is quite clear. You've already proven what you're capable of in terms of defence between 2002 and 2010, and that's why it's a shame to talk about all kinds of corruption here when we're talking about the Ministry of Whiskey Boxes at the time, I mean, they took the money in whiskey cans. So it's not worth it. In this ministry, led by Minister Benkő, General, soldier, former Chief of Staff, you can't give us such an example, so I don't understand these so-called corruption charges you're trying to pin on us here. The world before 2010 should once again be under review in this respect. So, with all due respect, I am asking you, I don't know, to ask the opposition representatives, because they have made it clear that either they don't know it yet, or they don't want it, or they never will, so I am asking the government representatives to stick with Hungary's defence. [[Tibor Bana intervenes.]] stick to the development of the Hungarian Defence Forces and vote in favour of these legislative proposals and the next parliamentary resolution proposal, of course. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-19-148	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the proposal for a resolution on the further participation of the Hungarian Defence Forces in international action against the Islamic State terrorist organisation until its closure. The government referral is H/8030. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2019-11-19-149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Dear House, A little over six years ago, a terrorist organization called the Islamic State was formed from a wing of Al-Qaeda. The Hungarian Parliament first gave its consent in 2015 and then in 2017 for another two years so that the Hungarian Defence Office could participate in international coalition operations against the terrorist organization. With the adoption of the resolution proposal before us, the National Assembly may again authorise the establishment of a military contingent of up to 200 persons in the area of the Republic of Iraq with the necessary technical equipment, armaments and equipment until December 2021. The humanitarian crisis, which has not been seen since World War II, is taking place today in the Middle East. The terrorist organization Islamic State pursues human rights violations against Christians and non-Sunnites. Despite the fact that, as announced by the Islamic State in Iraq and the United States in March, it has suffered a total military defeat in Syria and has lost its previously occupied territories, the fight against global terrorism has remained a key security policy objective for the international community, all the more so as the fighters of the Islamic State terrorist organization, taking advantage of the established humanitarian crisis, are trying to reach the various Member States of the European Union with the help of the migration wave. [[18.00]] Hungary remains committed to supporting international peace and stability. We believe that as a Member State of the United Nations, NATO and the European Union, it is our country's duty to play a role in the fight against threats in international space. The Hungarian government's position is that the problems caused by conflicts must be resolved where they arise and, accordingly, the possibility of peaceful coexistence must be created on the ground. A solution to the migratory pressure on Europe and Turkey would be the stabilisation of the situation in the Middle East, which would allow people who are forced to leave their country to return to their homes. Experience and knowledge gained in international peace operations is essential for the protection of the country. Missionary engagements also contribute to the ability of our soldiers to cooperate effectively with the soldiers of other allied nations at any time, thereby contributing to the international recognition of our country and to the enhancement of our interest in the international community. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The soldiers and instruments of the Hungarian Defence Forces play an important role in countering terrorism. This is widely acknowledged by the Allied forces, and even appreciated our readiness and ability to act, and the assistance provided by the Hungarian forces. Dear fellow Members, A little over a month from now, the mandate given earlier by Parliament will expire, on the basis of which the Hungarian Defence Forces will participate in the fight against the Islamic State in Iraq. In the framework of our engagement, Hungarian soldiers carry out military assistance, advisory, guardian and team support tasks. We would like to continue this helpful and peace-building peacekeeping work in the future. I would ask you to support this proposal, as the presence of the Hungarian Defence Forces is a major contribution to combating migration, terrorism and crimes against humanity, and thus to maintaining the security of the Hungarian people. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-11-19-150	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Good evening. We will continue our work with speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman György Hubay, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2019-11-19-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, In the course of today, we have arrived at the third item on the agenda, which deals with defence, so let me also present the position of the Fidesz faction on the item on the agenda. The purpose of the proposal for a resolution is to give the Parliament its consent to the establishment of a military contingent of up to 200 persons, but not more than 400 persons in the territory of the Republic of Iraq, with the necessary technical tools, weapons and equipment to facilitate international coalition operations against the terrorist organization Islamic State. In the event of the adoption of this resolution, the Parliament shall ask the Government to take the necessary measures under the terms of the decision without delay and in its own power. The Government shall inform the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Defence and Police Committee of the Parliament, on request, and at least once a year, of its decisions and measures under the proposal for a resolution and the operation of the quota. The proposal would provide for the possibility of stationing for those tasks in the territory of the Republic of Iraq by 31 December 2021. The proposal for a decision shall take effect on the day following its publication. Ladies and gentlemen, As you can see, we are talking about a very important topic, because Hungary's aim must be to bring help to Europe, not trouble, but help where it is needed. I am sure that our teams will deliver excellent performance, as Hungary's involvement in these international tasks has always been exemplary. Our presence in Iraq is of particular importance in order to help prevent genocide and other crimes against humanity against Christian and other religious minorities in Iraq. I trust that on this strategic issue and important for all of us, Parliament will be able to speak with one voice, and you will also support the adoption of the resolution proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-11-19-152	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here.
u2019-11-19-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is indisputable that whatever base of the terrorist organization called the Islamic State is being eliminated, its leaders are being killed, the international forces are trying to destroy all these resources, they are being created over and over again, almost out of the earth, and they are making citizens' lives miserable in countries not so far from us. It is also a fact, and one of the important topics of each meeting in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, and I think that it is our task, as Hungarian Members of Parliament, to support all the tasks, all the missions organised by international organisations to solve the problems there, to resolve the problems locally, and to prevent social and natural crises that can cause migration to accelerate in some way. I am quite infected with this question, as I find myself facing reports from week to week, video reports that make the lives of millions of people in the Middle East miserable. It is the mass of civilian casualties that accompany, for example, the terrorist activity of the Islamic State. It is also a fact that international organisations, however much money is spent on it, have extremely limited resources to deal with the problem in a way that does not generate new crises on the ground, and that there are no political conflicts between local forces, local governments, civilians and delegates from international organisations. It is extremely difficult diplomatic work that will bring any international organisation to the point of sending soldiers or civilians on missions to resolve problems. I must therefore say, and always have been, on this basis, that the peaceful and rich people of the world help countries in crisis zones to stay in place, to try to bring peace in a given area, whether by war or by other guerrilla or terrorist organisations or by governments that maintain dictatorship. I must say, however, that the experience of the past 15 years has not brought about the fact that Western civilization has been able to create peace in these areas, at the most, to manage it somewhat, to progress the problem somewhat, to create some messy new government systems that have not been adopted by the societies there. We could talk and argue about this for hours. It is a fact that international action in these areas is still ineffective. But it is also true that hope lasts. In 2015 and 17th, as Mr Secretary of State has already said, two decisions were taken on the same subject, and, at both times, the Jobbik Group voted against. The vote on gender was not about not wanting to save our country and Europe from the fact that the masses of migrants are crossing our borders and making life difficult for our country and for Europe. It is also not that we do not think that Hungary should play a role in the international tasks which, for example, it has contracted in the NATO system itself. [[18.10]] But today, I have to say that the information is so little that even if the tasks are defined in this proposal, it is that the tasks of partnership building, military assistance, counselling, guardianship and team support can be increased to 200 and up to 400 people, we see that we have very little information. We do not know so much whether our Hungarian soldiers are at least surrounded by the minimum security system, that if we send them there, we can give them a chance that they will actually return alive and safe, that, with so little information, it is very difficult for a Member to support such a proposal in such a way that it does not occur that we will even sacrifice our Hungarian countrymen as part of a completely unknown and opaque mission system. So we have duality, I have duality. We must always feel serious responsibility for the fact that the system of defence is a system of command, and the soldier must carry out the order to give him an order to give him an order in which not only does he not see what danger he is facing, but at the moment no one in the Hungarian government and the Hungarian Parliament is waiting for him. So I wanted to say this now on this issue, and this proposal will come back to plenary for a detailed debate; I think that the opposition will still have this issue. The fact that the civilised and economically strong world cannot see hundreds of millions of people living in constant war situations, and then we do not even talk about the expected consequences of the climate disaster, which will inevitably bring about the fact that millions of people will be forced to look for other homes in the world, and that, in fact, Europe and other continents will be victims of this. We must not forget this, of course. I want a man on his feet who can make a good decision on such matters. Anyway, our information is really tight. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-19-154	Thank you very much. Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of KDNP is next. Here you go.
u2019-11-19-155	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, This would be the second extension of the Hungarian quota mission, according to the first extension decision, to the 200 people who are now serving there against the terrorist organisation Islamic State, and we know precisely from international reports that, although the Islamic State was destroyed in military terms, this only means that it does not continue to operate in an organised framework. The fact that the roughly country-wide portion of the Islamic State's self-appointed caliphate from Syria and Iraq has been ripped and appointed there is no longer under the jurisdiction of the Islamic State. At the same time, it does not mean that the threat has disappeared on the spot, and does not mean that the members of the terrorist organisation and the rapists and the gunmen of the terrorist organization have suddenly disappeared and that the threat is no longer present. That is why I consider it extremely important that this mission should continue, and here at this bill we have the opportunity to thank the Hungarian soldiers for their brave stand in these missions, in the 14 countries where we have more than a thousand soldiers, in the various NATO and UN missions where the Hungarian soldiers stand, and in the peacekeeping missions where they are, I think that they are far too far overachiever in terms of our country's strength and our defence. To a great extent, the highest superlatives talk about the performance and preparedness of Hungarian soldiers in the NATO, the UN Security Council. My fellow Member, Jobbikos, has heard the praises of Hungarian soldiers on several occasions, for example, within the framework of NATO, so I think that this bill gives us an opportunity to thank not only these 200 soldiers, but all Hungarian soldiers, and from here we wish them the best possible ones, and to give them all the support we have for our powers. I consider it very important that there is evidence that international organisations, various security organisations, secret services and public organisations have evidence that the Islamic State soldiers are trying to come to Europe with a wave of migration to Europe, trying to get themselves to Europe with the help of human smugglers. This is obviously a direct threat to Europe. Insecurity in the Middle East and the war situation in the Middle East and acts of terrorism pose an indirect security risk to our country, so I think that both should be addressed. It is of particular importance, as regards Hungary's diplomatic and military engagement, that, by maintaining our participation in the coalition, our participation in the peacekeeping and counter-terrorism coalition there, we can also actively serve our Hungarian foreign policy visions aimed at eliminating illegal migration and its root causes on the ground, in addition to our contribution to the fight against terrorism. Here, with military involvement, we are strengthening important relations between Iraq and Hungary from an economic point of view, and we are involved in protecting local Christians, as well as in mitigating the root causes of the migration crisis affecting Europe. In addition, our coalition role against the Islamic State is also a priority in safeguarding the sovereignty of our country, and I think that it is also a recognition in our federal system that it is taking part in this coalition, either in excess of Hungary's power or perhaps beyond its power. This certainly brings recognition to our federal system, and this is very useful to our country, both in foreign policy, diplomatic and military terms. Thus, the National Assembly would authorise until 31 December 2021 to carry out the tasks of partnership building, military assistance, counselling, guardian protection and team support in the territory of the Republic of Iraq to the Hungarian Defence Office. The delegation of power shall cover the stationing of a military contingent of up to 200 persons, with necessary technical equipment, armed and equipped, of 400 persons during a switch period. The cost of next year is already guaranteed for this quota, since the Parliament has adopted the central budget for 2020. This is about HUF 6.4 billion for that year, and the funding requirement for the year 2021 is also available in the long-term budget and planning of the Ministry of Defence, and the Parliament will, of course, ensure this next year. I think that this is about an engagement where there is something to be proud of, and I regret that there is one of my fellow opposition Members who hesitates; as I feel, Jobbik's representative said that he hesitates to make the decision to support this engagement; is it not, Mrs Vadai, who has declared on TV that they do not support any such thing, although the Democratic Coalition has previously supported this engagement. I hope that, until the decision is reached, everyone, reading the reports in the press on the Iraq mission, and reading the really highest praises that we receive from the international community for our engagement, will change its decision and at the end will support this proposal. That's what I'm asking you to do. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-19-156	Thank you very much. Congressman Tamás Bellozó, MSZP, please.
u2019-11-19-157	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to begin with what I have said to you many times, that I have had the pleasure of being led by the then Minister of Defence, with a delegation out in Erbíl, and not only in Erbíl, but also in several places of service in Kurdistan, Northern Iraq, and to see what our troops are dealing with exactly and how. I can tell you from personal experience, on the one hand, as such, that I have seen and met the soldier lady who was serving alone at the time, but she was not noticed in the crowd, but in any case a curiosum, and on the other hand I have had the pleasure of consulting, talking, meeting with the leaders of the German, Italian and American co-teams and the Head of Mission, and I can only confirm that with the greatest appreciation they have spoken of our soldiers serving there, who actually perform different tasks. [[18.20]] I would like to emphasise this because, in the first such proposal for a resolution, it was not even possible to remove from the Hungarian government and from the Ministry of Defence leading the defence wallet what our soldiers were actually going to do there. I also think it is perfectly understandable and very good that we are involved in missions. It is quite clear that participation in such missions is a huge profit for Hungarian soldiers in terms of professional experience. On the one hand, NATO is not a specific mission in NATO, of course, because it is a separate mission, together with NATO members, that they can exercise multi-ethnic engagement, leadership, leadership and effective field work. These are, as the Secretary of State has said, irreplaceable opportunities to gain experience with the Hungarian Defence Office. These are all things that I, as a member of the Defence Committee, would propose to vote for. But you can't just leave without saying that we were at the border, a few miles from the line of fire, at the then Kurdish headquarters. The Hungarian soldiers there train Kurdish, pesmerga warriors who went straight from the training camp to the front and died with their masses. All this has been done to free the Islamic State from these animals their own country and, in this respect, the entire NATO or even Western culture, including Hungary and the citizens of Hungary, because it is difficult to use other terms. What went there for ethnic cleansing and madness, even against their own fellow nations, who were forced to participate in the fight of the Islamic State by completely ill means and methods, had to be eliminated. I would like to stress that Hungarian soldiers are training Kurdish, pesmerga fighters and helping to fight the Islamic State. The Hungarian government is asking us to support this process. Meanwhile, the Hungarian Government and you, Fidesz MEPs, were not even willing to put on the agenda yesterday the resolution condemning the Turkish Government, which the European Union has already voted for, and also their MEPs, where people of Kurdish origin or nationality, including civilians, are effectively killed. I don't know how the two can one day be politically arranged even in your soul. And I would add that the protection of Christian and other religious and other minorities is also important here in the presentation. As I was saying, with regard to the Islamic State, there is a strong argument, and it has every basis. But you have also heard and read the news that the Kurdish nation, which is quite dejected, I would not go into this for a longer time... in the midst of operations in the North Syria, militias loyal to or related to the Turkish army have slaughtered a Christian settlement and Christian people in the last few days. Then how is that, fellow Members? The eastern Kurds in Kurdistan in northern Iraq are good Kurdish, we help them, in the west, in Northern Syria, along the Turkish border, and there are Kurds that we allow to exterminate? With great respect, I can say to this bill that our group will decide, with a majority decision, whether to support it or not, but I myself, with my view to being eligible for defence, feel very bad for political reasons, and I could not vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-19-158	Thank you very much. It's Congresswoman Márta Demeter, LMP. Here you go.
u2019-11-19-159	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to begin my speech by thanking the Hungarian soldiers for their involvement here, within the walls of Parliament, and for their dedication to do their work abroad in the framework of each mission. And, as many of my fellow Members have already pointed out, regardless of party standing, it is true that Hungarian soldiers are an excellent performer in these missions, and Hungary receives international recognition in this respect both formally and informally. I think it's a very commendable thing. And here, too, I hope that this kind of appreciation may sooner or later be given to our soldiers by the government in the framework of defence policy, because when it comes to salaries, it must be acknowledged that, for example, the defense stipend has been hijacked from the civil servants' fund, so it is 44 600 HUF. However, there is still plenty of work to be done here, fellow Members, I think that even with a new type of socially just pension system that appreciates and appreciates the engagement and sacrifice that our soldiers are making and the burden they are subjected to. However, this certainly encourages further service as far as possible. But I think, for example, that such a pension system should be introduced. But to return to the missions, the missions of the Hungarian Defence Forces are extremely important. There's an incredible amount of experience. Obviously, it is not irrelevant how our soldiers can pass this experience on to each other and how the Hungarian Defence Forces can develop. It doesn't matter how things that are theoretically present can be put into practice. Obviously, by increasing interoperability in these missions, they are serving the country extremely well. I would also like to point out that the basic principle is that terrorism must be combated and organised crime must also be combated by every means possible. However, I regret the fact that the government has unfortunately not acted entirely in this spirit in recent years. I would like to briefly quote some names: Ghaith Pharaon, Atiya Khoury, who was the Syrian dictator Assad's money launderer and founder's license in Hungary, and Zaid Naffa, who failed the terrorist security screening. They can all be here and be here in Hungary. I think it should not be a double standard if we are talking about combating terrorism and combating terrorist financing. It is necessary to examine the circumstances under which you are asking for the adoption of this proposal for a resolution in this House. Situations: In particular, Turkey started military aggression in early October against Kurdish armed forces, which contributed very much to international security, in the Islamic State in the area of Syria neighbouring Iraq. These are the circumstances. I think that the present Hungarian government's assistance to war crimes by assisting and supporting the Turkish President Erdoğan's war against the Kurds is quite unsuitable. Is it a lie that this kind of foreign policy, diplomatic, government, what would you call it? I think that its fatal flaw would contribute to international security, perhaps to preventing or reducing the migration crisis. They're supporting a war against the Kurds, and by the way, our soldiers are cooperating in Iraq. By the way, with the support of each war, they will only increase the possibility of migration, the migration crisis, with each such step, and I think that they will actually ignore the Hungarian national interest. As you have mentioned, the International Coalition against the Islamic State was established in September 2014 and Hungary's accession to this coalition was voted by the Parliament in April 2015. I would also like to highlight, in addition to the obvious need to fight terrorism and act against it, there are many ways to do this. One way of doing this is military engagement, but obviously this is not the only way. I would also like to point out that the development of domestic security systems and opportunities would in any case be necessary in such a situation, when, for example, aid is requested for such a proposal; without it, but at the same time, absolutely. [[18.30]] On the other hand, unfortunately, the government has decommissioned domestic security systems rather than developed them. Let me also refer to the fact that the Hungarian Times wrote in May 2016 with the title of Kurdish Warriors in the Honvéd Hospital, that Kurdish warriors wounded in the fight against the Islamic State are maintained in the Honvéd Hospital, and that the provision and rehabilitation of the Pesmergas in Hungary is possible on the basis of cooperation between the Hungarian Defence Forces and the Kurdistan forces. So it is clear from this that the Hungarian government is pursuing a two-faced policy, because this is a correct step that I have just quoted, for example, from the Hungarian Times, but the fact that they are supporting President Erdoğan in the war against the Kurds is also an absurd and fatal mistake for Hungary's security. I'm the one who asked the Ministry of Defense about all this. There were three questions. Unfortunately, I didn't get any answers, to be honest, I'm not surprised. The three questions were: How is the government support of Turkey's Syrian offensive compatible with Hungarian military engagement in Iraq? My second question: how does it affect the security of Hungarian soldiers in the Kurdistan mission in Iraq that the Hungarian government supports Turkey in its attack on the Kurds in Syria? And the third question is, will the government terminate the Hungarian-Turkish defence industrial agreement after EU Member States have already announced that all arms trading activities will be suspended with Turkey? I have not received an answer to any of the questions, and I have now resubmitted them to the Ministry, and I hope that, perhaps, Mr Secretary of State, perhaps not, but perhaps Mr Secretary of State, will answer these questions. Until these questions are answered, how can they ask for authorisation to continue the mission? What are the guarantees? What guarantees are there for the security of Hungarian soldiers? Obviously within the limits given, for we know precisely that soldiers are willing to serve by taking a huge risk. However, obviously, we all want to guarantee that no soldier, no Hungarian soldier, is harmed. But what guarantees can they offer by means and other solutions, as far as possible? And what guarantee can you give to the security of the Hungarian people who are here in Hungary? I would also like to point out that, unfortunately, not only does the government support this reprehensible Turkish policy in communication, but it is actually assisting war crimes, but it is also, unfortunately, financed. At the moment, we are talking about the fact that already in September, the press published an article about the purchase of Turkish armored SUVs by the Hungarian Defence Agency, and it also takes it through a brokerage company. It's another kind of acquisition that's completely opaque. Szilárd Németh, Minister of State, replied to a parliamentary question, which led me to submit a request for data of general interest once again, which, of course, was not answered. By the way, in this trial, there will be a judgment hearing in December. It's amazing that every story like this has to be sued anyway. It is clear that the war of President Erdoğan against the Kurds is also being funded with a defence industrial cooperation, with whom our soldiers are cooperating in Iraq, by the way. So I think the government has something to think about; it is not the opposition, the government, that has something to think about. I would like an answer from the representatives of the government present to the question of how it is motivated at all to increase engagement. I'm actually interested in that. And it is clear that with this step, which is the policy they are pursuing... because missions, of course, are part of the foreign policy of a government, they can form an integral part of it, I think that none of us are naive on this issue. However, the attempt to compensate a government for its fatal errors and mistakes by sending Hungarian soldiers to danger zones, by increasing the engagement which it is taking on beyond force, I think that Hungary has a much greater role than the rest of the nations in its ratio to the number of soldiers deployed. So it's not for trying to compensate for fatal errors, and that's for saving them. So I think that this increased risk, which, among other things, is caused by Hungarian government policy, with the support of President Erdoğan's war, cannot be exposed either to our soldiers or to the Hungarian people who live here in Hungary. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-11-19-160	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No one's applied for a two-minute speech. So, as a speaker asking for a normal word, Mr Gergely Arató, representative of DK, notary of the Parliament, please order.
u2019-11-19-161	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I would not like to repeat what my fellow Members have said about their doubts about this mandate. I would just like to make it very clear that, while we very much appreciate the service of the soldiers who are currently taking part in this mission, and we are very grateful for what they are doing, in a situation where the government does not give adequate information to the representatives I have asked, in the opinion of the competent commission, either on this mission, and in the situation where your very aggressive policies by your friends, President Erdoğan and President Putin continue to destabilize the region, and when, I add, the extremely unpredictable US foreign policy contributes to this, we see risks in this mission and those unclear points where we cannot support this mandate. This is too serious a matter for us to simply trust that you can handle this effectively. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-19-162	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Someone would like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] It's not provocative, I'm only asking out of duty. [[Defiance.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. Secretary of State, please.
u2019-11-19-163	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, allow me to reject as strongly as possible the government's support for war criminals and war crimes. This proposal for a resolution is about the opposite, but it should have been read, or it should have been put in a little context by everyone who puts such sentences on the government's head. Secondly, there is something to say that it is cynicism that this is said most loudly by the Member who has been known to risk the personal safety of a soldier on a mission, the family of a returning soldier, by releasing non-public military data. [[Márta Demeter interrupts.]] In order to support his personal political career. The fact that the congresswoman made a mistake with this is a completely different story, but I think it would have been better if she had just kept quiet about the mission today. My third comment [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] And my third comment concerns those who... thought I told you, on four continents, in 14 countries, we have more than 2,000 soldiers in different missions, and we have not counted on our soldiers serving at various headquarters in NATO, the EU and the United Nations. So, you don't have to force the soldiers out here with a warrant. Soldiers go to missions with great pleasure, talking about any mission, whether European or extra-continent. [[18.40]] I also visited the soldiers on this mission, talked to the soldiers, and those who come back would like to go on more and more missions. So it is not that these soldiers go there with a hanging nose and are under great pressure to perform the service that the missionary service, which is meant for them by the military service of peacekeeping, peacemaking and supporters, is very proud. This has been said several times here by my fellow opposition Members, too, that we can be proud of the fact that when we talk about the Hungarian soldier, the Hungarian soldier, the Hungarian military activity in NATO-berk or other international cooperation, we always end up in the first place, always remembering the most, reliable, the most diligent, the most prepared and equipped soldiers. This raises not only the international rank of the Hungarian Defence Forces, not only the Hungarian soldier, the Hungarian military, but also the international rank and reputation of the Hungarian military, which has gained over many centuries, but also the country as a whole. The whole country's kind of like watching a good football game or a good sports match with these missionaries, and we're rooting for it. When our Hungarian soldiers are out there, we don't say they are, we say we are. We Hungarians here in Iraq, here in Kurdistan, here in Afghanistan, here in the Western Balkans or even in Central Africa can stand up, we can show that it is worth working with us, who is cooperating with us, of course, will benefit from this issue, and these missions have been given a well-placed and distinguished role. With regard to the Turks, I would like to emphasise once again that the position that we have heard here is a pro-immigration position. It is clear that if the Turks launch that refugee flood of 3.6 to 4.6 million towards Europe, then Europe is facing very tough decades and years. So this is not about what kind of activity we should be doing, but we should simply focus on the interests of the Hungarian nation, the interests of the Hungarians. And about the Pesmerga relationship, right, this proposal for a resolution is about strengthening the relationship between the Hungarian defence, the Hungarians and the Pesmergas in Kurdistan, Erbíl. Here it was quite rightly said that here in Hungary we are healing pesmerga soldiers, for example, within the framework of this cooperation. The Pesmerga warriors themselves, who, by the way, take part in training and counselling by Hungarian soldiers, are extremely satisfied with this mission, and not only by themselves who are given the opportunity to cooperate, but also by more than fifty countries participating in international cooperation, we have received this satisfaction and support. We have proposed to continue this now, and I ask that we do not deprive the Hungarian soldiers of the fact that they can represent Hungarian interests here in foreign service, external representation, if you will, and defend the Hungarian country here as well. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-19-164	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments can be tabled by 16:00 on Thursday, I'll let you know. Dear Parliament, A general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on the publication of the Convention on the Transfer of Convicted Persons and the draft law on the publication of the extradition agreement between Hungary and the Kingdom of Morocco will follow. Government referrals T/7996. and T/7997. available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, author. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-11-19-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill is to announce the Convention on the Transfer of Convicted Persons between Hungary and the Kingdom of Morocco and the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco. The purpose of the extradition agreement between Hungary and the Kingdom of Morocco is to establish a legal framework for the extradition procedure between Hungary and the Kingdom of Morocco. The Convention sets out the scope of extradition offences, binding and reasonable grounds for refusing extradition, sets out the central authorities designated to send and receive requests for expenditure, the content and the mandatory annexes to the extradition request, and settles cases of transfer by a third State or of conflicts of extradition requests. The Convention provides for the application of the principle of speciality, temporary arrest, transfer of persons or delay thereof, the institution of temporary extradition and transit. The Convention also contains provisions on confiscation and transfer of objects, cost bearing, data protection, relation to other international treaties and dispute resolution. The purpose of the Convention between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on the transfer of sentenced persons is to lay down rules for the transfer of sentenced persons between Hungary and the Kingdom of Morocco, in order to allow them to serve their sentence in their own state in order to facilitate the reintegration of prisoners into society. The Convention lays down the conditions for the transfer of sentenced persons, the documents to be sent for the purpose of carrying out the procedure, the central authorities designated to send and receive requests for transfer, the rules for transfer, the rules for the execution of the penalty received, the rules for the obligation to provide information between the parties and the sentenced person. The Convention provides for transit, use of languages, bearing costs, relations with other international treaties and dispute resolution. It is necessary to publish the conventions by law, since it is necessary to take a position on issues which also affect the fundamental rights and obligations of citizens. On matters not covered by the Conventions, the International Law on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters, 1996 XXXVIII. The provisions of law shall prevail. Conventions may enter into force only if the provisions of the Conventions are published by the States Parties in accordance with their national law. Dear Parliament, Please accept the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-19-166	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. There will be speeches by the lead speaker. Congressman György Hubay, the lead speaker of Fidesz is the first. Here you go.
u2019-11-19-167	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen. We are living in an era of globalisation, which is clear and clear to all of us. World trade is growing more intensively than ever, travel has accelerated and the time limits for information exchange have virtually ceased to exist. Unfortunately, as is often the case with innovation and development, organised crime quickly began to benefit itself. This is a challenge to which we must respond quickly and effectively. We must not allow criminals to take advantage of the loopholes of globalisation in order to escape justice by taking advantage of the lack of coordination between one country and one country. I therefore believe that such conventions are vital to the fight against both criminals and organised crime. For the modern rule of law, international cooperation in the eradication of cross-border crime is not an option, but an obligation. The Fidesz fraction considers that this Convention lays down the precise legal framework for extradition in an appropriate manner, while respecting the internal sovereignty of the two Contracting countries, setting precise limits on extradition obligations. It is important that such conventions should be carefully formulated, since there may be cases where extradition may become problematic. We need to clarify what will happen if extradition conflicts with national security problems or human rights dilemmas. We must also prevent political persecution, and in such a case we must not cooperate with the country seeking extradition. [[18.50]] As regards the Convention on the Transfer of Convicted Persons, we consider it important to highlight its social aspect. The fact that convicted persons are not required to serve their sentence in a foreign country in an unknown environment contributes significantly to their subsequent reintegration into society. So this convention is much more than just a logistical solution. We are pleased that the general justification of the bill also highlights this integration aspect. We therefore see in the Fidesz fraction that the two agreements record precisely and carefully the conditions and circumstances of extradition and transit. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-19-168	Thank you very much. Congressman Tibor Bana, Prime Minister Jobbik, please.
u2019-11-19-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, We have already talked about agreements and agreements today, and I have referred to them in my speech before the agenda, on which we are very critical, and we have a completely different attitude than the Government, and I am thinking of the case of the International Investment Bank IIB, the KGB bank, but I can also mention the question of the Turk Council, which will be the general debate here in Parliament on Friday. However, with regard to the two conventions before us, I can now talk about a different situation, because I must say as the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group that these two laws are fully in line with international standards and standards, so Jobbik can clearly support their publication. We particularly welcome the fact that, after the signing on 21 October, so soon, these legislative proposals could be presented to the Parliament in terms of law enforcement and other aspects. Dear Parliament, The closer relationship with Morocco is also crucial because the vast majority of immigrants from the African continent are going to sea through this country to reach Europe. It is no coincidence that the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly held its first meeting in Morocco, Marrakesh, in October this year. Jobbik hopes that more and more people will recognise the importance of stopping migration, precisely the problem of illegal immigration, in the issuing countries, which requires close cooperation with the countries concerned. These conventions also aim at this in addition to other important principles, so that Jobbik's faction can support their publication. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-11-19-170	Thank you very much. Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, speaker of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2019-11-19-171	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The two conventions you have already presented were signed by Minister of Justice Judit Varga and Minister of Justice of the Kingdom of Morocco Mohamed Benabdelkader in Marrakesh on 21 October 2019. The joint negotiation of the legislative proposals for the publication of the two conventions, the Convention on the Transfer of Convicted Persons and the Convention on Extradition between Hungary and the Kingdom of Morocco is an important bilateral convention that promotes criminal cooperation and promotes relations between the two countries and contributes to more effective action against international crime. Morocco is an important partner, perhaps the most economically and politically stable region in Northwest Africa. The two conventions make a major contribution to building stable, useful partnerships between the two countries, which also facilitates trade relations between the two countries. There is a great demand for Hungarian agricultural products on the part of Morocco, and Morocco's gastronomy is becoming increasingly popular in Hungary. That is why it is no coincidence that Morocco was the guest of honor for this year's national agricultural and food exhibition. One of the main elements of the expansion of our bilateral trade relations is therefore agricultural products, but we can also achieve greater economic cooperation with Morocco in the fields of biotechnology, agricultural machinery, water management, digitalisation and innovation in the coming years. The knowledge of Hungarian water and agricultural professionals, the high quality of their work, is also a concept in Morocco. Morocco is also an important country for us because it has an extremely rich cultural and historical heritage, and many Hungarian tourists visit it year after year. There are nine world heritage sites in Morocco, the imprint of three world-religious civilizations, which resulted in an unparalleled historical heritage. In addition, Hungary is interested in a stable, strong Morocco, because Morocco is directly adjacent to the European Union, and, as my fellow Members have said, it is also an important station for the migration countries, so we need to help in the issuing countries, even in the southern parts of Africa, in sub-Saharan areas, but it is very important to maintain stable relations with Morocco, because we are talking about a stable country in the region. Therefore, the KDNP fraction also supports the publication of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-19-172	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai is the lead speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2019-11-19-173	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I definitely believe that these are carefully prepared documents. Dear colleagues have said what I wanted to talk about, so I support it accordingly and, of course, the Hungarian Socialist Party's faction accordingly.
u2019-11-19-174	We have heard, for example, a very clear speech and, accordingly, a short speaker speaking. Thank you very much. So we've come to the end of this circle. No one's applied for a two-minute speech. A representative asking for a normal word didn't come forward. I'm going to ask if there's anyone else who'd like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the joint general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to reflect. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2019-11-19-175	Two words. Thank you very much for the support of the factions.
u2019-11-19-176	Thank you so much. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain laws on judicial matters until closure. The government referral is T/8023. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Once again, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, as rapporteur. Here you go.
u2019-11-19-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, If you look at the bill in front of you, you can see that it amends several laws on the subject of justice. Among other things, the legislative package amends the law concerning notaries, judicial experts, the Law on Probate Procedure, the Civil Code and the Law on Court Enforcement. These changes are primarily justified by indications based on the practical experience of law enforcement. In addition, compliance with EU standards also justifies certain corrections, such as the Trust Act and the Patent Act. Allow me to say a little bit more about the planned changes to the individual laws. As I have already said, the bill aims to renew certain points of the regulation on notary activities on a number of issues. These amendments concern, in particular, the Law on notaries and related law on judicial enforcement and the order for payment procedure. The planned changes are justified, on the one hand, by the practical application of the notary law and, on the other hand, by the preservation and strengthening of public confidence vis-à-vis notaries exercising public authority. To this end, the bill amends the institution of suspension from service as a temporary measure applicable to notary disciplinary proceedings. In the application of the current legislation, it has been demonstrated that incorrect legal wording can lead to different interpretations, so that the practical application of notaries' suspension from service is difficult and is not possible in a number of justified cases. The bill therefore clearly defines the circumstances in which the determining disciplinary court shall order the notary to be suspended until the circumstances giving rise to it exist. This measure should ensure that notaries suspected of committing a criminal offence or a particularly serious disciplinary offence are not allowed to exercise the public authority conferred on them by the State until such suspicion is clarified. Thus, there should not be a case where the law-seeker's case is dealt with by a notary subject to criminal proceedings, i.e. a person who has been shaken by public confidence. The Act on notaries is also amended at several points because adjustments based on the practical experience of the Hungarian National notaries' Chamber of Notaries make the daily operation of notaries smoother. These clarifications concern the editing of authentic instruments, the involvement of representatives or assistants involved in the proceedings, such as sign language interpreters, the rules for the verification of copies, and the order in which the certified copy is issued. [[19.00]] A significant practical problem is the handling of applications for the withdrawal of the enforcement sheet or the deletion of the enforcement clause, which have been submitted without foundation or repeated in the course of the notaries' implementation. In order to prevent abusive exercise, the proposal also amends the law on court enforcement and the law on ordering payment. The proposal makes the submission of applications subject to the payment of a fee, which is due to the party if his application proves to be thorough. However, it should be stressed that that obligation to pay charges applies only in all cases to applications submitted after the entry into force of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to the legislation already mentioned, the bill also amends the patent attorneys' law. The aim of the change is to ensure that the patent attorney's profession can be exercised within a more flexible framework, thus establishing an incentive framework for the pursuit and development of the patent agent's profession in the domestic and EU markets. The amendment of that law also aims to ensure full compliance with EU law following two infringement procedures launched by the European Commission. In view of this, the bill will restructure the conflict of interest rules for patent agents by introducing a general rule of conflict of interest to protect the interests of the clients of patent agents. The restrictions on the activities and participation of patent offices and companies are modified by the introduction of more favourable rules, allowing a higher level of participation of non-patent agents in patent offices and companies. At the same time, in order to preserve the professional management of patent agents over patent offices and patent companies, a guarantee of at least two thirds' voting rights has been defined, by which the voting rate has been set at a rate higher than the reduced minimum share. The bill also amends the rules on liability insurance for European Community professional industrial property representatives by requiring the European Community professional industrial property representative to declare in writing the existence and content of his liability insurance instead of the previous obligation to certify. In addition, a guarantee measure for customers using the services of patent agents will be incorporated into the law, enabling customers to be informed about the liability insurance of patent agents. Dear House, It follows from what has been said that, in addition to balancing the interests of the public interest and the interests of patent agents, the part of the proposed bill concerning patent agents is adapting the regulation to bring it fully into line with EU provisions. Allow me to draw your attention to the provisions of the bill amending the Law on the Probation Procedure. Changes that are specifically in the interest of citizens are also aimed at improving the effectiveness of legacy procedures. To this end, the proposal introduces a number of simplification and acceleration provisions in the current process while maintaining the current split-up legacy procedure. In our legal system, the so-called preparatory phase prior to the transfer of the estate is of particular importance, as is the practice of other countries. As the notary is currently preparing the transfer of the estate, it is appropriate to further strengthen the role of the notary in the existing procedure in order to allow the notary to hand over the estate to the heirs as soon as possible in the second stage of the procedure. For example, the role of the notary is strengthened by the provision of the proposal to which it defines a complex information task in the interests of the heirs. It is proposed that the notary inform the parties of their rights and obligations, of their access to the file, of the procedure, of the expected costs of the procedure, and of the possibility of reaching an agreement. In addition to the obligation to provide such information, a further provision is made for the proposal to shorten the time limit for the start of the inventory in cases with a certificate of death issued at home. The fact that an incentive for settlement is already present at the inventory stage may speed up the procedure if the parties are aware at the beginning of the procedure that they can reach an agreement and can obtain the estate even sooner. The heirs will have the opportunity to draw up a draft agreement in their dealings with each other and with the creditors of the estate and to attach it to the inventory of the estate as an annex. As a result, the legacy can be transferred earlier in the notary section on the basis of a legal settlement. In addition to these reforms, it is also intended to increase the effectiveness of legacy procedures by linking the rules of unnegotiated succession with the rules of settlement. A greater reduction in the duration of the proceedings could also be achieved by making the procedure without negotiation a main rule. Of course, the probate negotiations will continue to be important in the future, as negotiations will continue to be mandatory in the cases provided for by law. The person concerned in the succession will also be able to request a hearing under the conditions laid down by law. Dear House, In addition to what has been said, the bill also includes an amendment to the Trust Management Act. In this context, inter alia, it clarifies the rules on registration, which aim to ensure that the provisions on the exercise of powers and the applicable procedural rules are clearly laid down in the case of records relating to trust management. In addition to a clear definition of procedural rules, the rules on trust trustees will be strengthened. In order to comply with EU anti-money laundering requirements, the draft law, when keeping a register, lays down the conditions for trust trustees to ensure the suitability and adequacy of the persons holding such a position. The Money Laundering Directive requires Member States to take appropriate measures to guarantee the suitability of the service providers covered by the Directive, such as trust managers. As the conditions for authorisation of a business-acting trust trustee are still strict, the bill mainly concerns non-business trust managers. In accordance with the provisions of the Money Laundering Directive, it provides for the future that a person who has been convicted of a crime related to money laundering cannot hold a trust office. In the case of a trust trustee acting as a managing entity, the conditions of competence of criminal law shall be met by the member, the beneficial owner of the entity and the person in charge. According to the bill, the registry authority is constantly verifying that the trust trustee fulfils the conditions of criminal competence. The examination of these conditions strengthens public confidence in trust management relationships. In the future, the State will be more involved in trust management, thus guaranteeing the purity of managed wealth management. If, as a result of the verification, there are grounds for disqualifying the trust in the context of its task, the registry authority shall call on the parties involved in the legal relationship to remove that obstacle. An obstacle to the trust position may be eliminated either by recalling the trust trust involved in the exclusion and by the secondment of a new trust trustee or, in the case of an entity, by eliminating conflicts of interest. The bill provides that, in the case of a trust trust subject to exclusion, the agency will remove the trust management relationship from its register, but it will grant those concerned 90 days' grace period to ensure that an appropriate and suitable trust trustee fulfils this position. Following the failure of this deadline, under the bill, the trust management contract will be terminated. The Office shall notify the State tax authority of the termination of the trust, taking into account the fact that the treated property has a fiscal legal personality. Ladies and gentlemen, Let me also present to you the amendment of the law on judicial experts. In the context of simplifying the statistical reporting of judicial experts, the bill amends the provisions of the law on failure to provide returns in order to ensure coherence between the converted statistical reporting and the grounds for deletion from the list of judicial experts. [[19.10]] In order to reduce the bureaucratic burden of the Hungarian Judicial Expert Chamber, the representative body of judicial experts also needed to amend the quality assurance system for evaluating the work of judicial experts. The amendment also concerns the rules for the nomination and election of the main decision-making body of the Hungarian Judicial Expert Chamber, the delegation and its presidency. In the spirit of electronicisation, the electoral rules have been modified so that the election can be conducted electronically, so that it requires as little cost and time as possible from the Chamber and the elected judicial experts. In addition, some of the necessary clarifications on the basis of practical feedback will be implemented in the law. Taking into account the legislative amendments, it is also worth mentioning the amendment of the law on the right of association, the status of public benefit and the functioning and support of civil society organisations, known as civil law. The bill amends civil law in order to ensure the continuity of the professional work of the bodies of the National Cooperation Fund. In addition to what has been said, the bill also contains a number of legislative amendments, which are justified by the alignment with the legislation adopted in the meantime. This is how the clarification of the transformation law and the minor correction of the law on legal activity were included in the proposal. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, I would like to stress that the bill amends several laws on the subject of justice. The need for amendments is largely based on indications based on practical experience and serve to simplify, streamline, strengthen public confidence and, in some cases, the obligation to comply with EU standards is not negligible. I ask this House, with its vote in favour, to contribute to the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-19-178	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. Congressman Tamás Herczeg, the lead speaker of Fidesz, is the first. Here you go.
u2019-11-19-179	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The proposal on the House's table intends to amend a number of laws, if I have counted correctly, on 12 judicial matters, in such a way that the experience of the application of the law is incorporated into the legislative text, thereby promoting their effectiveness. Dr. Pál Völner, State Secretary for Justice, analysed in very detail how, at what points, many circumstances have affected our everyday lives as a result of this package of laws. I am trying to tell you the points that Mr Secretary of State has not mentioned. With regard to the Law on notaries, I mention that the proposal intends to introduce more stringent measures concerning persons engaged in notary activities who are suspected of committing a criminal offence. This is justified by the preservation and strengthening of public confidence in notary activities. In order to comply with EU standards, this package of proposals amends the rules on liability insurance for Community professional industrial property representatives. From now on, industrial property representatives will only have to declare in writing the existence and content of the patent attorney's liability insurance covering the territory of Hungary instead of the obligation to provide proof so far. The proposal also restructures conflict of interest rules for patent agents. Mr. Secretary of State mentioned electronics. Here, it is very important that the electoral rules of the general meetings and the members of the Bureau will be different in terms of cost and time savings. The proposal seeks to remedy the harm to those interested in company information. LXVI of 2019 on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2020 Law 1 amended the rules on free company information with effect from 1 October 2019. Under this law, only a limited set of company registration data is available free of charge, and even these limited company information can be obtained subject to identification. The original legislative goal sought to prevent the misuse of free company information. On the basis of practical feedback, however, it can be concluded that the restriction to those interested in company information would be of such great interest that it is not proportionate to the benefit of achieving the legislative objective. In view of this, the proposal restores the text status of 30 September 2019 and thus removes the limits on the availability of company registration data. The proposal also repeals the sub-heading of the procedure for verifying the likely succession title of the notary non-court proceedings in the public collection, in view of the fact that that procedure has ceased to exist. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr State Secretary said that the proposal submitted intends to increase both the simplification and the efficiency of the legacy procedures, which is also an extremely important part of this package. The proposal before us aims to amend, in addition to the above-mentioned laws, laws on judicial enforcement, money laundering and terrorist financing, trust trustees and judicial experts, as well as civil law, in order to ensure the coherence of the legal system. Here, too, I note that the 2011 Civil Code on the right of association, public benefit status and the functioning and support of civil society organisations is being amended to ensure that the work of NEA bodies, councils and colleges can continue. In order to harmonise the practice of law enforcement and to ensure coherence between legislation, the Fidesz Group supports the proposal tabled, and I ask all my fellow Members to do so. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-19-180	Thank you very much. Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2019-11-19-181	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, There is a bill before us that is a standard salad law, where many, many, many, many amendments to the law have been put under one hat, so it is quite difficult, and it is quite mistrustful that it is not hidden in this salad law, but the title is that judicial proposals, and indeed, the subject, the name is followed by the proposal itself. So, as I mentioned, you're modifying 12 billings. The first is the Act on notaries' activities. It is clear here what the aim is, to strengthen public confidence, and indeed the author of the amending proposal is right in that notary activity is a very high level of public confidence activity, and if there is any suspicion of this, it is legitimate if a little more precisely you look into whether the notary is working well or not. In the event that he is subject to criminal proceedings, his notary activity may indeed be suspended. We fully agree with this amendment, which is set out in this amendment. The length of time for office examination is still regulated by the legislation, which is important to ensure that cases work faster, so there is no problem with this either. In connection with the activities of notaries, the amendment of the implementing law leads to a rather strange situation, which obliges those who make an application for revocation or cancellation of an enforcement clause to pay a fee of HUF 15,000. This is interesting because he is now introducing a levy of HUF 15 000, but he says that if the application leads to a result, he can claim it back from the notary. [[19.20]] The interesting thing is that the notary will be financially opposed at this moment, because when he makes a decision, if he grants the request, he will actually fall from the HUF 15,000 income of which he actually owns only the fifth, because the Chamber has to pay one-sixth. Here, I see some contradiction in the fact that the notary has a financial interest in making a one-way decision. The aim of the amendment on patent agents is to achieve full compliance with the directives of the European Parliament and of the Council, which is obviously also something that can be supported. With regard to the law on company disclosure, company proceedings, the law on winding-up, I was already mentioned by the speakers before me that there was an amendment to the law that reduced the ability to know the register of companies from the beginning of 2019. This was not a good regulation, because I think that in business it is very important that if a person enters into any kind of contract with a company he does not know, then he must obviously know if he is careful about how much his income was, how much his pre-tax profit was, so see the results, see who his owners really are, who can represent him, who has been brought into liquidation proceedings against him, there is a procedure against him to seize the company's assets where appropriate, to initiate enforcement proceedings against him. Because when you see such things, you obviously do not have the confidence, and that is why it is necessary for everyone to have full insight as an opportunity, so I am glad that this amendment of the law recognized relatively quickly the mistake that the legislator had made earlier, and here with this amendment it will be corrected. The probate procedure is the next part I would like to mention from this bill. Once again, there were many problems with the legacy process. Usually, the vast majority of people in the legacy process... first of all, if anyone is asked what the biggest flaw in the legacy process is, everyone will say that time is what the duration of a legacy procedure is. It happens very often when, for a year after an unfortunate death, they have virtually no contact with the heirs, they do not even know what is happening at this time, and a very large majority of people have no idea what is happening during this period, why they do not speak to him for a year, for a year and a half, no one knows what is going to happen. Here, this proposal is very well speeding up this process, setting tight deadlines; and what I have said is also an important aspect that this proposal is trying to remedy, and in many cases, this information is already happening, and here the notary's duties are expanding with this obligation of information, which is quite relevant, I think, and it can indeed be kept up to date. We hope that this will significantly shorten the probate procedure. What I would perhaps suggest in this regard, which I have encountered, was that there was a common problem during the succession procedure and that it was not included in this bill, and this should be more detailed in the notary section of the estate when the notary hands over the duties, the documents and the transfer of the estate, and the information that flows from the notary to the heirs should be more detailed, and I will say what. Most of the problem is that if there are a lot of legacy burdens, and in this case, the notaries want to get over it as soon as possible, take over, accept the inheritance, and then find out in a few months' time that this is what should be paid, there is such a tax back, there is such an enforcement right on the former deceased, and in fact, the obligations may be greater than what the person inherited. In this case, when someone sees this foresight, he may refuse this inheritance, give up his inheritance, and here the obligation to provide information for notaries should be made a little wider in order to enlighten the heirs of these future obligations. So that's what I'm a little short on legacy here, which might make things even better, but basically it's a good direction to change the legacy process. The next part concerns trust trustees. The amendment is made here to comply with the General Administrative Rules Act, and it is also important to comply with the European Parliament and Council Directives. It also deals with the statistical reporting of judicial experts, which is important because there was a change in legislation before, which allowed judicial experts to fail to provide statistical data without consequences every year, but since there has also been a change in legislation and extended data provision only once a year, so in practice, if there were no such sanction, judicial experts could skip this obligation. So it's understandable why this is happening here. The bill also deals with the election rules of the Hungarian Chamber of Experts on Justice, in order to better meet the requirements of our time, so the election could be carried out electronically in the future, which, in my opinion, is the path to the future in all areas sooner or later. There is also a short amendment to the legal activity at the end of the law, but it only amends the law on a few points because of compliance with an earlier legislative amendment and only takes two words or phrases out of it. Basically, on this basis, I see that this bill can be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-19-182	Thank you very much. Congressman Imre Vejkey, lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, please.
u2019-11-19-183	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/8023 on the amendment of certain laws on judicial matters. Law No 12 was amended on the basis of law enforcement practices, experience-based indications and other professional grounds. Ladies and Gentlemen, Let us now look at the amendments to each bill in detail. However, given that Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, has discussed these in detail and in detail, as well as my fellow Fidesz lead speaker Tamás Herczeg, and my fellow Member Csaba Gyüre, on Jobbik's part, discussed these issues in detail, I would like to mention only the priorities, and thank you all for supporting the bill so far. The 1991 XLI on notaries. Laws are amended in the context of disciplinary action, with the enlargement of notary suspension cases setting stricter rules than before. At the same time, provisional measures will be possible at any time in the course of disciplinary proceedings. Too formal rules for the drafting of the notary instrument will also be simplified. The bill also provides for a replacement of the signature of the representative by a notary in the event of a representative's proceedings. The bill also settles the rules for the assistance of the assistants. On the basis of the bill, the parties will no longer have to sign a fact certificate in the future. The bill requires the notary to include the authenticity and authenticity of the document in the inspection clause only in the way it is expected, thus solving the anomalies that have arisen in the past. The bill clarifies the procedure for issuing a certified copy and certificate, in particular in the case of the notary's deputy. [[19.30]] LIII of 1994 on judicial enforcement By amending Act No. 5 and Act No. L of 2009 on the order for payment procedure, the legislator sought to prevent abusive exercise of the right. In order to prevent misuse of the right, the bill is the Vht. The amendment makes the withdrawal of the implementation sheet and the submission of the application for the cancellation of the implementation clause subject to a fee of HUF 15 000. The 2008 XLV on individual notary non-court proceedings. Amendment to Act No 449/2013 on the order for the return of disputed cultural assets held in public collections. The Government Decree expired on 26 February 2019 and therefore the notary procedure for certification on the title of the probable succession had to be terminated, and this regulation was no longer necessary. Article XXXII of 1995 on patent agents With regard to the amendment of law I would like to stress that the amendment aims to ensure full compliance with Directive 2006/123/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2006 on services in the internal market and Directive 2005/36/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 September 2005 on the recognition of professional qualifications. In order to comply with Article 25 of Directive 2006/123/EC, the proposal restructures conflict of interest rules for patent agents by introducing a general rule of conflict of interest to protect the interests of its clients, in addition to which activities which are considered to be wholly incompatible and, as a general rule, not incompatible, are identified, instead of a provision containing a general prohibition on the exercise of cross-sectoral activities. In order to comply with Article 15 of Directive 2006/123/EC, on the one hand, the restrictions on the activities and participation of patent offices and companies are amended by introducing more favourable rules, allowing a higher level of participation of non-patent operators in patent offices and companies. I would also like to say that it is appropriate that the above amendment restored the company law on free company information in accordance with the state of 30 September 2019. XXXVIII of 2010 on the probate procedure With regard to the amendment of the Act, it is important to note that, in addition to strengthening the role of the notary in preparing for the transfer of the notary, it introduced amendments at the notary stage of the procedure in order to simplify and speed up the procedure. The 2011 CLXXV on the right of association, public benefit status and the functioning and support of civil society organisations. I consider it important to note that, in order to ensure continuity of the professional work of the bodies of the International Cooperation Fund, it amends the activities of the Council and the members of the colleges in order to ensure the continuity of their work. The 2013 CLXXVI on the transformation, merger and division of individual legal entities. With regard to the amendment of the Act, I would point out that the amendment corrects a textual error, since, with effect from 1 October 2019, inaccurate wording has been included in the law in respect of the creditor collateral arrangements relating to the transformation process of legal persons. The clarification makes it clear when a legal person cannot refuse to provide collateral. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). With regard to the amendment of law I consider it necessary to state that, in respect of trust trustees, the bill specifies that the trust trustee or the manager of such an organisation should not be a person, a member and an effective owner of a criminal activity linked to money laundering. Recording authorities should keep this under constant review. If the grounds for exclusion arise in the case of the trust trustee, the authority shall remove him from its register. Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Securities and Markets Authority) (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. With regard to the amendment of the Act, I would point out that from 1 August 2019 the obligation to provide statistical information to judicial experts has been tightened. In this context, it has become necessary to impose sanctions for failure to provide a declaration, even until it is removed from the list of judicial experts. LXXVIII of 2017 on legal activity. It is necessary to amend law because it is necessary to repeal the wording of the Law on Law-Law on State Service. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, please continue to support the T/8023 on the amendment of certain judicial laws. The Parliamentary Group of the KDNP supports bill No 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-11-19-184	Thank you very much. Congressman Tamás Bellozó, head speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2019-11-19-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Several points in the salad law, as has already been said, contain highly forward-looking, eligible proposals. The first half is obviously compliance with EU law and the rules ensuring the transposition of European Union law in Hungary, which we have always supported, and obviously the appropriate professionals have prepared this properly, so obviously this should not be a problem. As regards the tasks of notaries and notaries, of course, the question may arise: in some cases, in some municipalities, the notaries will otherwise have or will have any other compensation. But that is part of the proposal, and I think that is the point, that I add to the citizens themselves, that, at a very difficult time, we are talking about a legacy procedure, and their rights will be simpler and more guaranteed. This is also eligible in any way. I listened to my fellow Member Fidesz in his keynote speech, but he remembered the current unblessed state of the obligation to pay for consulting company information as if it had been a natural disaster, and it had just happened in the past. The thing is, it wasn't like that. Simply the Fidesz majority forgive me for saying this, as usual, in the government's 100 percent ordering, button-printing mode, this decision has been made in this Parliament, and you have made it. We still told you it was a terrible mistake. But we're glad they're capable of self-correction. Let me just say that this wasn't an accident, you made a mistake, but now it's a good thing that you're revisited. In view of the proposal as a whole, I can also say to the Secretary of State that that trust has long since been lost, or I do not know when it was the last time anyone voted for a 64-page salad law as a blind opposition party. Perhaps this summer, too, a bill was passed in the National Assembly, which was later found to have been rewritten with some cross-revocational rules in some areas that would not have been appropriate. Therefore, I can say on behalf of our group that if this proposal is maintained with the present text, and in the next few days it is not clear that it is still something rude to do so, or at the TAB committee meeting, where the government and Fidesz do at the last minute the various real intentions, so we can say, as my fellow Member once again, to bring in various rude things and fool people, so if this is not all, then we will consider supporting this bill. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2019-11-19-186	Thank you very much. Congressman Gergely Arató, DK, lead speaker, please.
u2019-11-19-187	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I do not want to add to the word this time, so, if you will allow me, I can say that I have a similar position to Mr Bellozó. [[19.40]] In the details of the bill, as far as we know it, not only this one law, but the amazing amount of legislative proposals that the government and the majority have been so kind to throw at us, which, by the way, protects the authority of Parliament... but we will talk about it tomorrow, I see, in more detail. So, if we do not do that, then there are a number of elements of the bill that might be eligible; in particular, if, at least in rational units, the amendment of each law was to be included, giving sufficient time for professional debate and debate in Parliament, it would have been submitted. However, I am obliged to say more radically than Mr Harangozó on the question that in a situation and I am sorry that I am bringing this matter here now, when, according to some news, an indictment filed by a fellow Member also states that he was able to influence legislation in order to cover his own crimes; in such a situation, we are not in such a trust relationship with this government that we can support a large and extensive proposal concerning a number of laws which has been tabled in a haste. There are many details that we would be happy to support if the government brought them back in a normal, sane legislative process, then there must be many points in which they could count on our support and cooperation. However, we cannot accept this form and we cannot support it. Thank you very much. [[Gergely Harvesto will take his place again in the notary's seat.]]
u2019-11-19-188	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No one's applied for a two-minute speech. However, as a pre-notification speaker, Mrs Jobbik, Andrea Varga-Damm, has applied, whom I have seen so far... but I see it now. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea is headed for his representative's seat.]] So I would like to ask the congresswoman that while I am taking advantage of the time and pulling away from her microphone, I am trying to strengthen parliamentarianism, I would ask her to give me her opinion right now. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2019-11-19-189	Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Thank you very much for the opportunity to comment on this legislative proposal. My fellow Member, Csaba Gyüre, gave a very detailed account of the position of our group and of the new legislative proposals that would affect the future of the proceedings, I consider that I do not need to multiply the word at this late three-quarters of eight. My opposition fellow Members have formulated a point of opposition on the part of MSZP and DK, but I consider that these are, to a large extent, administrative rules for which I do not now have to make a properly supported speech. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-19-190	Would anyone else like to speak and take the opportunity to speak? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. Secretary of State, would you like to reflect? [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2019-11-19-191	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I thank you for your supporting expressions from the factions. We hope that Mr Bellozó's confidence will come back if he can read the material presented more thoroughly. Congressman Gyure's suggestion was that 15,000 forints. So technically, if the withdrawal is thorough, the notary will pay you back. So I wasn't interested in accepting such a request just to keep the 15,000 forints, thereby increasing the number of cases, and the abuser of this withdrawal doesn't go back. Of course, there may be disputes, but hopefully we have been able to take a simplification step in this direction. Thank you all very much for your active participation. [[Nacha Lawrence applauds.]]
u2019-11-19-192	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The eighth amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary follows, and the general debate of the bill on the abolition of autonomous administrative jurisdiction until closure. Presentation by Szabó Timea, Sándor Burány, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, Tamás Mellár and Bence Tordai, Dialogue and Representatives T/7991. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, the representative of the Dialogue, the rapporteur. Here you go.
u2019-11-19-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It might be an honor to be a representative of the opposition to the amendment to the basic law aimed at leading an administrative court out of the Fundamental Law. As I understand it, this has not been the case in the last nine years to include an opposition proposal of this weight in a series of subjects. I was optimistic until I saw the bill on tomorrow's agenda on the amendment of individual laws to the establishment of one-degree district procedures, in which they smuggled back the original proposal, which they had already wanted by the creation of administrative courts. This proposal is about the fact that the body exercising public authority can now turn directly to the Constitutional Court if the ordinary court does not decide as it wishes; in Hungarian, the Constitutional Court, which is completely under the power of Fidesz, does not need the original administrative courts. But I think it's worth going through to see what the lesson is that we've come this far. On 12 December 2018, we did not only protest and demonstrate against the slave law, and we did not use physical violence, as the Speaker of the House can read in his sentence, but we tried to obstruct the adoption of administrative courts, because we already saw how incompatible it was with the rule of law. It seems that we were right, since Fidesz has since admitted that we do not need administrative courts. In June 2018, the Parliament adopted the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law, in which a new independent administrative court was introduced. This is what our proposal seeks to amend. But what did the original Fidesz proposal mean? As long as it was possible to sue ordinary courts for a contested decision by an authority or a municipal authority, it is proposed that this could only be done in administrative courts. The new administrative courts have decided, for example, on tax matters, building matters, where they would have said the final word on demonstrations, strikes, but also on politically sensitive election cases and the issue of data of public interest. So since politically sensitive matters would have been decided here, it really didn't matter how independent the judges would have been of the current government power. This was a key issue, and this was the question that made us, above all, not support the establishment of administrative courts. The biggest problem, therefore, was the appointments of judges. The essence of the original proposal can be summarised briefly as follows: it could have been an administrative judge who the current Minister of Justice wanted, as long as the Minister of Justice wanted, and would generally have decided as the Minister of Justice would have wanted. The then Minister, László Trócsányi, replied that he could have made a very limited decision on personal matters and that all his decisions would have been made in public. We have seen the decisions that have been made in public and that have been about who will be appointed to the head of independent state institutions. We saw the election of the President of the Republic, János Áder, who was the former leader of the Fidesz faction, who was destined to embody the unity of the nation. Then we saw, when the head of the State Audit Office was elected, the former representative of Fidesz, László Domokos, was here yesterday, almost hugging the entire Fidesz fraction. Looks like they don't give a damn about appearances anymore. Then we can see the Constitutional Court as former Fidesz MEPs, former Fidesz ministers sitting in it, and we can also see the decisions that they are pointing in the same direction. And we can also see the Attorney General, who is the former candidate for the Fidesz, and we can see his decisions. Now, after that, we should have hoped that Fidesz wasn't going to appoint party soldiers to the administrative courts. [[19.50]] The other problem was material independence. This was a criterion of the Venice Commission, and it also wished for this to be met. Here, too, the current Minister of Justice could have practically set the budget for the administrative courts, and the Minister could have exercised the employer's rights over the President of the Tribunal. But the saddest part is that former practitioners defended this proposal by fire and water. I am not referring primarily to László Trócsányi, who gave his name to this, and then he was surprised that he was not welcomed in Europe with open arms, but, for example, the Prime Minister or the Speaker, although we know what he thinks about the system of brakes and balances. But they're all former Fidesz founders who went to Bibo College as law students. I'm sure that's not what they learned at the Bibo College. They probably started their studies by indulging in constitutional law, deepening in Montesquieu, and learning to separate branches of power. The separation of powers is an institutional barrier to abuse of power, which is undoubtedly the basis of democratic rule of law. These branches should also be institutional and personal in terms of competence. The legislative power restricts judicial power and executive power by law, the executive power restricts the legislative power by disbanding Parliament, the right to open new elections, and the judicial power controls the constitutionality of the legislation and through it the legislators. This is the foundation of democracy. You have often referred to in recent days that the municipal election proves that there is democracy here, because opposition parties have won some major cities. Ladies and gentlemen, As long as you come up with such proposals and want to adopt such proposals as this administrative court, you cannot talk about the fact that there is full democracy here. This proposal was completely opposed to the separation of powers. Fidesz opposed these principles to its proposal for an administrative court. To bring this issue closer to ordinary people: the separation of powers also protects them from being dominated by the government at all times. For example, when private pensions were taken away, this was the case when early retirement was taken away. If there had been an independent Constitutional Court, it would probably not have been possible to take them away from these people. The saddest part is that Fidesz did not change its position or withdraw administrative courts because opposition parties have said it many times outside Parliament and Parliament, and not because the majority of the people represented by opposition parties thought it was a wrong direction, but because in the People's Party they said it was too much, it should not be. In other words, the opinion of the People's Party was more important than the opinion of Hungarian representatives and Hungarian people. Gergely Gulyás stated in a government brief in May 2019 that it is necessary to withdraw administrative courts because it is in the crossfire of a European and international debate that calls into question judicial independence. That's the saddest part. I would ask the Fidesz Members that the next time they speak with such a single voice against a fundamental amendment, they should take our opinion more seriously. The Dialogue presented the eighth amendment of the Fundamental Law in order to bring the Parliament to the bottom of the table. If the Fidesz Members have indeed stopped attacking independent judges, they will accept the amendment before the House without an amendment, because it will only restore the version before the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law. I ask this House to support our proposal. Thank you so much for listening.
u2019-11-19-194	Thank you very much. I'll ask the Secretary of State to speak on behalf of the government. [[Dr. Pál Völner: No.]] It says no. In this case, Honourable Parliament, there will be speeches by keynote speakers. First, we can listen to Congressman Tamás Herczeg, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2019-11-19-195	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Just as I did not think in the previous package of proposals, I would say to my fellow Member, Dr. Tamás Harangozó, that it was a disaster, an insurmountable disaster or a pre-ordering that this legislation should be withdrawn, and, of course, I do not claim it now. The aim of the proposal before us is to change the provisions of the Fundamental Law in order to ensure the coherence of the national legal system in order to ensure that the provisions of the Fundamental Law are not imposed by independent administrative litigation. The Government of Hungary is the CXXX of 2018 on Administrative Courts. By adopting the Act by Parliament, he decided to restore the autonomous administrative judicial system, which was abolished by the Communist regime in 1949. For the first time in Hungarian law history, the XXVI was in 1896. Law brought to life the Royal Administrative Court, which fulfilled its social function in an appropriate manner. I would also like to note that there are administrative courts in some of the Member States of the European Union today. With regard to the history of the legislation that we are talking about, it is perhaps worth saying that last year the legislation was passed, and then, indeed, in April 2019, an amendment would have been made that would have strengthened the independence of judges. Then, at the end of May 2019, the government took a decision to postpone the introduction of administrative judicial action for an indefinite period. However, since this package was constantly in the crossfire of national professional and civil society and European international forums, the government decided to do so, and a few weeks ago the position of the Ministry of Justice revealed that the government would not introduce administrative courts, so it will remain a unified system of judicial organizations in Hungary in the future. By means of the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law, the legislative authority has raised the validity of administrative courts to the constitutional level. Now, in line with the Government's intention, I would like to note this in the proposal on the House's agenda, because it is important that, in line with the Government's intention and in order to ensure that the legal system is coherent, it wants to restore the text of Article 25 of the Fundamental Law to the pre-seventh amendment, as my fellow Member has just said. This will also provide for the repeal of the separate administrative tribunals at constitutional level. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the context of this amendment, the text concerning the election of the President of the Administrative Supreme Court in Article 1 on the tasks of the National Assembly and Article 9 on the duties of the President of the Republic, concerning the person of the President of the Administrative Supreme Court, is therefore deleted from the text of the Fundamental Law. The amendment also removes the provision in Article 24 (2) (e) that the President of the Administrative Supreme Court is entitled to initiate an examination of the conformity of the legislation with the Basic Law in the Constitutional Court. In this context, the President of the Administrative Supreme Court will not have the possibility to submit a post-standard control motion, as appropriate, pursuant to Article 24 (5) (b). Articles 25 and 26 of the Fundamental Law should also be restored to the state prior to the seventh amendment in order to maintain the single court system. [[20.00]] It is also necessary to repeal the transitional provisions for administrative courts, of course, for the purposes of the abovementioned objective. Dear Parliament, In view of the reasons set out in the proposal submitted, and of what my fellow Member has said, and with due regard for the coherence of the legal order and the appropriate constitutional framework, the proposed proposal is supported by the Fidesz Group. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-11-19-196	Thank you very much. Congressman Csaba Gyure, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2019-11-19-197	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Well, it really is a historic moment in the last nine years, because there are not so many examples where the opposition representatives' proposal or an opposition group's proposal should go through the Justice Committee, and then come in here with an emergency, to the plenary session, and so far everyone is supporting it, and even the two-thirds majority will vote in favour of this bill. Everyone on the Justice Committee was a little surprised when we discussed this. But how could such a thing happen? How could such a thing happen because let's admit that this is not the normal behaviour of the Fidesz-KDNP fraction. [[Intercom from Jobbik's ranks, malfunctioning.]] Yes, it is a cause for malfunction, as my fellow Member here says. But the truth is, there's no malfunction in this. I think this has come in handy for the Fidesz-KDNP, that the bill, which has been joined here with huge steam, like a steam cylinder, has been constantly protected, almost sacrificing their blood on the battlefield of politics, has been protected by our former Minister of Justice and fellow Members of the Fidesz, which is now, how should I put it, a bit embarrassing, that you will be the ones who withdraw this amendment you tabled. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] I think, at the moment, this proposal has come in handy for you politically. That's why they accepted it. But let's get into the debate about what it was, because we've done it many times, but we've also heard a lot of reasons from the rapporteur's side about what the history was and what it was that led up to, and why this proposal has become unpleasant for you. If we start from there, and I always say this in the debates, that Tünde Hando, President of the OBH, told us here at the pulpit when he kept his annual report, around 2017, when he mentioned the administrative case law of the courts that the administrative procedure at European level was in Hungary. In fact, it is one of the best in Europe, not at European level. Then he said that he was in second place, and the following year he said that the first place was administrative justice in Hungary. You have brought a whole new law to this; obviously, what works perfectly is the best in Europe, it must be reformed so as not to have an area in which we are as good as the administrative courts. They made a legislative amendment that bled in countless but countless places, and the most important reason for you was that it was based on Hungarian national traditions. That it's the 19th. At the end of the century, this was a great Hungarian innovation, the introduction of independent administrative courts, how well this worked in Hungary, and in 1896, how far forward this law was. Well, even then, I pointed out that the law at that time wasn't moving forward at all. The government at the time also invented administrative courts as an escape route, because, as you do, they fear the independence of the courts, fear that in certain cases, which are extremely important to the government, the courts will not pass a judgment that is favourable to you, but that which is in accordance with the law. That's what you're afraid of. This was feared, as the government at the time feared in 1896, and wanted to build an administrative court system in which the Minister of Justice appointed the judges of the administrative court, appointed the leaders of the administrative court, and was able to recall these leaders. The Law of 1896 was so much more positive and more advanced that the President of the Council had to be a former judge, who had acquired these professional experiences, and not a professional from the administration, who had never judged in his life. You didn't even have that, the first variation was that you had to have at least 50 percent outsiders. Then, when you have seen that this will not be a problem, you can safely remove this from the law, because when you went around the country to see the current administration judges want to come to the administrative court, it turns out that the people at the headquarters, where the new seats will be, want to be there, but the judges don't really want to go to the courts 50 or 80 kilometers away. In this way, it will be safe to bring in as many administrative experts as the minister will select to obtain the majority in administrative courts. I say it was a very serious problem, and it was a very serious withdrawal of this bill, which you submitted and accepted, which all opposition parties opposed. Why was that a step backwards? Because, as the author Olivio Kocsis said, the separation of powers, an ancient democratic principle, has been seriously violated in this law. At a time when the executive power gains influence over the judicial power, it acquires a decisive influence and can practically control it. You have shown in the last nine years that the policy of the Fidesz-KDNP governments has said nothing but that everything in Hungary, where there is power, is being shredded and that the government's position is clearly taking place. What Viktor Orbán defines must happen at all levels. You have also started this fight against the court from the very beginning. It began with the forced retirement of the judges, from which you had to withdraw. The European Union has said that such a thing cannot be done and that lawsuits have been lost in a row in Strasbourg court, where many tens of millions of compensations have been paid to judges sent to forced retirement. Here, when I interpelled Minister, he told me that the compensation that had to be paid was a billion dollars. But Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has made this up, and it must be implemented even if it violates the principles of democracy. Similarly, it was the next stop of this, the last stop, then we will figure out how to take out a whole system of the single judicial system in Hungary. It's unbelievable why there should be two separate systems. And the original idea was to have higher salaries in supplements, to better appreciate those judges, obviously to them, to work here and fear that they would get out of it. In this system, too, the Minister of Justice had the power of appointment, with anyone, if not without justification, but with a justification, anyone who was presented could have changed the will and appointed the person designated by him as judge in the administrative court, and would have had this opportunity in the courts. And so were the internal government systems set up so that the government could have a majority influence everywhere, which you will deny because they say it is not so, but if we calculate it, then we can see that it is true that there was also a majority of them. And by calling back any judge when the Attorney General sees that there are too many judges in that position, it's obvious that this judge can be recalled at any time. What do we see? We see that the Minister of Justice, the current Minister of Justice, is in the hands of the court, he is in charge of the courts, and we have lost about 150 years, Hungary with this law in the field of legal development about the 19th century. He withdrew to the development of the first half of the century. So we're back 150 to 180 years. This was a very serious problem. After that, you wanted to go through with it, you went through with it. It was a big problem: you could see that the European Union would not allow you to do this in any way, that you wanted to influence the last branch of power. The Venice Commission was here, and you examined it, and you said that the Venice Commission did not see any problems, yet the Venice Commission gave a long list of the problems that this meant. However, the Hungarian court organisations also indicated their objections to this. [[20.10]] In fact, even Tünde Hando and the OBH have made a 15 - page criticism of the establishment of independent administrative courts, and I do not know how many points they have gathered their arguments as to why this system should not be set up. Obviously after that, he was also tapped on the head of Tünde Hando, and then a year later, when this bill passed, he was in a different position, in opposition to his previous position. And the way we got there was that you, Fidesz, were in real trouble on the European stage, because in many respects you started examining Hungary's rule of law, based on Article 7 and others. And you, after being suspended in the People's Party, in the European Union, and in self-suspension, as you say, have admitted that in some cases you must allow it. One of these steps was that you were very pleased with this vacancy in the Constitutional Court, that Hando Tünde, who could be blamed for being the main tool for tearing up judicial independence on your part, was to put it away from the Constitutional Court, to give up his office as President of the OBH, and then we would be able to carry it over calmly, so that the new President of the OBH will surely state his principles, that there will be no judicial independence in Hungary, and there will be no such thing. You will say this internationally, that we have replaced it, that there is something else; here the amendment of the basic law will take place. We have already withdrawn from this, and they are withdrawn under these international coercive circumstances. In this sincere intention, I do not believe in any form of you. I also believe that the first announcement, when you made the suspension of the entry into force of the law, and we voted here, has been examined, even when it comes to the possibility that at international level, we are going to make it a little bit of a waste of time, in case the pressure of international public opinion on the Fidesz-KDNP, the Orbán government is going to calm down, and then you will take this step nicely after all. Well, it looks like it couldn't have been, so now you've accepted defeat in this area. And that is why it has come to your attention that, now, the autonomous administrative courts, if that is the intention and they cannot really carry it through, will be removed from the Fundamental Law, from the basic law of granite strength, which we are going to amend here in the eighth grade. Unfortunately, I would also like to say two sentences about this, however, the main problem was that when we started the debate on this Fundamental Law at the time, in 2010, we continued, and a case-by-case committee stood up to prepare this, you made it seem that this would be a consensus constitution, one that we will put together. Everyone was happy and happy, and we believed there would be. But then the NER system, the national cooperation or the system of non-cooperation, that I do not cooperate with anyone in any form, this was what the NER system meant for you, which meant that even though we accepted a fundamental amendment, we voted at that time in the Delegation Chamber, point by point, at least from a hundred points, even though Jobbik itself submitted hundreds of amendments to the basic law, despite the hundreds of other opposition parties, you did not accept anything without just one word, but only the opposite. I don't know if it's a basic law... the Justice Committee was in Spain, where we were studying the adoption of the new Constitution there, under the leadership of former Minister of Justice István Balsai. There, too, they said that the most important, and that there will be a time-proof constitution if it is established by consensus. You didn't try to do that. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: No one has the majority...]] In 2010, we naively believed that the right-wing conservative Christian idea that we thought represented at least 80 percent of the Parliament here would make the consensus that we could go in the same direction together. Well, you've closed this barrier, you said the NER meant nothing to anyone, that's what it meant for you, and that's what the Fundamental Law is about. The problem is that we have already amended the Fundamental Law for the eighth time, and we should have amended the Fundamental Law a lot more than once. This depends only on your opposition, as opposition parties have already made countless proposals on how the Fundamental Law should be amended, but as far as our amendments were not adopted at the time to the original basic text, they have not been adopted continuously. This is only happening now, and it is only an exception because, at the moment, it is in your best interests at international level. That's why they're supporting him, that's why he's in here, and that's why he's been brought here by emergency procedure, and that's gonna look good for you on his outside certificate. And I'm glad that this is where the country is going to move forward. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-11-19-198	Thank you, Congressman. State Secretary Pál Völner has spoken. I'll give you the floor.
u2019-11-19-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I didn't want to comment, but some comments have been made that I think it would be good to put in order as soon as possible. First of all, there was a remark from the point of view of the author that it would have violated the independence of the branches of power and its separation in this proposal. I would just like to point out that there are administrative courts in several European states and that these courts are administratively managed. If we do not consider Austria, Germany, the Czech Republic as a rule of law, then, of course, we can argue with this, but I do not think that we should explain to the bill that is not, by the way, the subject of today's amendment of the basic law, and that we will discuss, in the course of tomorrow, the emerging details that were actually due to the suspension or the delay in entry into force. In connection with judicial independence, it has also been said from my fellow Member, Gyure, that those judges would have been in a predicament situation and that they would have had separate wages. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: That's right.]] It was in the bill that there was a uniform legal status, and the minister had no powers whatsoever, whether the word "recall" was spoken here or, I don't know, it's nonsense... sorry. I'm telling my learned colleague to read it. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: I read it!]] and he says it as a lawyer, but it doesn't say that word in it. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre interrupts.]] and it includes a single judicial status. So it's practically hard to argue if we're not arguing about what was written. It was said that the OBH was criticised for not this proposal, it was a discussion of an earlier concept, so it was not a proposal drawn up by the working committee. The Venice Commission has also said so. The Venice Commission considered the form of ministerial administration legitimate. It would be weird, because then in many European states it would be virtually possible to say that the ministerial form of administration is not part of the rule of law, in which we would be doing well at the moment, and the others would be very ill. Technically, I'd ask for more accuracy, and if we stick to the subject, I think we'd be moving faster. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-19-200	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We will now continue with the speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2019-11-19-201	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Thank you for the floor. I myself saw the surprise in the face of my fellow Member on the Justice Committee when he had a sensible proposal and passed through the committee. It's only natural. [[Moraj and interventions from the benches of opposition parties, including: Aha! Is that the first time you've made sense?]] The fact that there is no such sensible suggestion at any other time is not my fault, it must be discussed with itself or with your party. During the speeches, especially during the speech by Congressman Gyure, I watched the events on the Facebook pages of Jobbik, LMP, MSZP and Dialogue, and I did not see in either place a worrying demonstration being organised to the embassies of various EU countries. I looked at these Facebook pages nicely, and there is no event in which you organize worried protests before embassies in EU countries, that they have administrative jurisdiction, or that the Minister of Justice appoints judges and relieves judges. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches.]] In many places, this is European practice, not in our country, and I think it is right that it is not so in our countries, but in many European countries, and you are not worried there, you are not starting to hold protests, you are holding solidarity Molinos alongside the oppressed Austrian, Czech, Finnish and German citizens, whose judicial independence system you believe is in the mud, because they are using this analogy. We're used to double standards from you, but if you're using this analogy, you should be worried there. Congressman Gyure has given this example several times. We have held several such debates, a debate on delaying the establishment of administrative courts and a debate on the establishment of them. [[20.20]] Congressman Gyure claims that reaching back to something that had worked a long time ago and that a communist regime has abolished it will put our legal system back 150 years. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Nobody told me!]] I think the principle of conservative politics is that if there was something valuable in the past, and it was good, then we'll keep it. We'll keep it. You believe that this will put our legal system back 150 years because something is working before the Communist regime. And do you know, fellow Members, what was in it in the late 1940s, when the Communist regime abolished the administrative court, what was in it for reasons? It said that because it is too far from the influence of the executive power, that is why administrative courts should be abolished. This was part of the justification for the communist bill, and you say that it would throw us back 150 years into the Dark Ages, or I don't know what you think of this world. I think what I said in the debate on postponement is that the decision to postpone is right, because, thanks to your international minework, of course, the administrative court is in an international political crossfire that would jeopardise the independent functioning of the judicial offices, the independent decision-making of the courts, and an international pressure exercise would be the scene of the court. That is why this cannot be allowed, which is why the government has made the right decision to postpone, and now that coherence is being corrected here. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Will coherence be corrected? Seriously?]] , with this... We are restoring coherence, we are restoring coherence, I am sorry, Congresswoman, I have been here for a relatively long time, since this morning, so we are restoring coherence, that is a good step, I think. And it is also right that when the Minister for Justice announced this decision, she also said that the current draft law, which is here in front of the House, will provide a clear framework for administrative judicial action, speeding up the closure of remedies and making the case law more predictable, which we will adopt in this session in the autumn. I think that this is the right goal, but I must reject that Congressman Gyure says that the entire judicial system here is under the executive authority, and that the executive power is moving and influencing it, and I do not know what. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: That's what you want!]] Maybe if you were on the government, this would be the drill. Fortunately, we did not have to experience this; we will see what the next period will bring. I think that this bill is also an example of how, if there are arguments, if there is debate, we can change, as we can now, and, by the way, Congressman Gyüre has set an example when the government could change its position, or the majority in Parliament could make its position. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: I can already hear you say that in international space.]] And I think it is unnecessary to give an example of the Spanish example, where the election is bitterly elected every six months, because no one can bring together a decent parliamentary majority, and obviously parties outside the parliament are necessary for the constitutionalization, because there is simply no majority. In 2010, we were entrusted by the electorate with a constitutional majority, so it was not only our right, but also our duty to adopt a new Fundamental Law, because it was the electorate's power to do so, in part because of the activities of your current great friend Ferenc Gyurcsány. Accusing us that we didn't have this mandate is obviously also a political mood, but it's very, very far from the truth. So I have seen the surprise in my fellow Member's face, but I am happy for him, and obviously like the Fidesz fraction, and I hope, like the other factions, that we are in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-11-19-202	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2019-11-19-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Well, it is, of course, possible to argue long and exhaustively about the circumstances under which this proposal came before Parliament, and I think that the chronological part was collected so well in the author's exposé by my fellow Member and my better fellow Member, but I disagree on one thing. You are saying that Fidesz has benefited politically from this proposal, and I think it is simpler than that. So I think the thing is, they just didn't realize that this bill had to be submitted. And don't smile, my fellow Member, the fact is that one of two hundred State Secretarys didn't realize that the Fundamental Law, if it has already been postponed and if it has been postponed until December, might need to be amended. Therefore, quickly, the leader of the Fidesz faction personally and everyone else in the committee also interviewed opposition representatives so that we could quickly and urgently adopt this proposal, because this should be adopted by 31 December. I think it's shocking. Now, what you're saying politically, that you had a good suggestion for the opposition, it's a... I think you need to look in the mirror, and this thing will be settled. I think it's much more serious. This summer, we said here in Parliament that we should have a very difficult heart to vote for a law that postpones the introduction of administrative courts, because, and here we have said, otherwise you have written in the Fundamental Law that there is such a law, so that all of the anti-constitutional situations of anti-constitutional legislation that is contrary to that rule will result from any legislation. But then they said they'd postpone it temporarily. It was quite clear that, after it was announced that I would be permanently laid down for the establishment of administrative courts, it should therefore be removed from the Fundamental Law, the shame of the world that there is a rule in a constitution that the government itself and the parliamentary majority say will not be so! Think about it, my fellow Member, it says there's no such thing, there's no such thing. And there won't be any. And here's what opposition representatives say... well, I don't know when you filed it, in the middle of November, I don't know, but maybe we should do something. Why didn't the government submit this proposal at the same time, Mr Secretary of State, when famous representatives of the government announced that they would give up this point for good? Besides, I think it doesn't matter, obviously everyone will be very happy to vote, and the administrative courts won't stand up. Nevertheless, the situation remains that Viktor Orbán has given the order that the government must subdue independent justice. This man does not tolerate any decision made by anyone in this country regardless of him. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Paranoia is a disease!]] I see Mr. Secretary's head... [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] But the Ministry of Justice's past nine years of activity does not predestine you to question my claim. So not only within the government, Prime Minister, does not tolerate any decision other than him, but also in society and in the branches of power. The law to be negotiated tomorrow morning is an otherwise shameful, shameful manifestation of this. That you now think in a good fidesz way, Mr.Orbán we know that the lawyers will arrange it, share a good day, that if this public court is stuck in everyone's throats, then let's do it in a binjsi, and then we'll work it out in smart. They have managed to fill the Constitutional Court with Fidesz party soldiers, and tomorrow they will make it smart, so that the Constitutional Judge can be the Council President of the Curia, even if he couldn't be a judge! And in the same bill, it will be stipulated that the Curia's decision as a legal unit will literally be binding on any judge who, if he does not, will answer for it personally, and, by the way, I recall, may be subject to a withdrawal of payment or any other punishment. The circle is closed: another solution has been chosen to break the independence of the courts. They chose the solution, which was the mission of Tünde Handó, but could only interfere with the decisions of the Curia in the legal unit, and will solve the pattern with which the Hungarian prosecutor's office has been led by hand since the appointment of Péter Polt, in order to take the top of the institution, and to establish conditions of dependence and rules so that the leader can practically hierarchically do anything with the subordinate organs, which was never fashionable in the courts, and is not fashionable in any democracy. Not in many places on the administrative side, but nowhere on the judgment side. So don't talk to me, please, about the world peace phenomenon that you've just found out there's a good opposition proposal. And they didn't realize that what they were doing so far wasn't necessarily a good thing. The thing is, under international pressure, they're trying to fool everyone in this country, and they're going to do whatever they want, and they're still going to hit anyone who can make any decision in this country regardless of themselves. [[20.30]] Of course, this is part of the content of tomorrow morning's law, but it is closely linked to this, because it is the result of this law, by the way. Of course, we will vote in favour of the excellent proposal, and I still think that they should be ashamed of themselves. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-19-204	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2019-11-19-205	Mr President, Dear House, I'll be extremely low-key against the Congresswoman's expectations. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] And on the one hand, I also resist the urge to tell you, looking at historical perspectives, that we have all said this here, and everyone who knows it, and yet you have been trying to do it here, and you have not been able to explain to you that it does not work, that it is not European, that it is not legal and that it is not good, but you have tried to do it, that anyone here could argue with anything. And I am also resisting speaking tomorrow's speech today (Development in the ranks of the opposition.) 'Cause I'd like to leave some excitement in front of Congressman Bellozó tomorrow. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition. Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes.]] Oh, I see. So allow me to say that it is a pleasure to say that I have been permanently abandoned from the idea of the administrative courts of the kind that they have put forward earlier, and which they have tricked with the power of force, with all kinds of professional arguments and common sense mocking; I think this is a good news, and we can rejoice together, and we have supported it. I would not look for why they had waited until one of the opposition representatives thought of it; perhaps it is as Congressman Harangozó thinks it is; they have just overlooked it; it is possible that after they announced that they had withdrawn it, it would have been embarrassing for their partners, their international partners, to not allow such a proposal to be presented to Parliament by the Secretary of State, if he had not already done so in the Expo, he might later tell us the explanation. [[Dr. Pál Völner pointing to Olivio Kocsis-Cake: I am not the author!]] I'm sorry, he didn't mention it in the expose, but in the government comment; hopefully he'll tell us this explanation. The point is that this is a welcome development and opens or opens up the possibility of a substantive professional debate on how administrative justice is effective, useful and, most importantly, guaranteeing the independence of the court. Because, by the way, I say in silence that none of us in the opposition have ever said that we are in itself against the emergence of administrative justice as a separate branch. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] We've all said that in the way you want it to be, it's unacceptable and unimaginable. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Speaking of Congressman Nacsa, you're so excited. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] I would modestly suggest to him that, honourable Member, a legal system is not an institution. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] You will always find a wonderful example of everything, and rest assured, when your friends otherwise want Polish justice under their control, we also object to it. I'd like to tell you that you don't like that, and we could probably give you some examples, but that would lead to a bit of a long debate. So to sum up, we are happy to support this proposal, and we are pleased that you do not wish to create at least obvious constitutional confusion. We're not happy that you didn't learn anything from this story, but we'll learn more about it tomorrow.
u2019-11-19-206	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner.
u2019-11-19-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I really don't want to waste any time. I just have a few things I think it's appropriate to fix the baddest ones. Here our fellow Member spoke of a withdrawal, but I would like to reassure everyone, read the draft, there is no such thing. The decisions of the legal unit are binding on the courts, which are imposed by the judges, so they are not bound by the government, not by Parliament, nor by anyone. In fact, in order to help their own work, this easier wording was introduced so that it would not be carried out only on a case-by-case basis, but that the Curia could continue to play such a controlling role by analysing the whole case-law and applying the law. And to that part of the matter, which has also been said, although we have been a little ahead of tomorrow's negotiations as to why the government has not submitted it, I could give you a very simple explanation, by the way. The Dialogue presented its bill sooner than the submission of the Law on one-degree district courts, to which it could have happened. Of course, we could also have chosen the solution to vote off the submission submitted by the Dialogue. This is a great opportunity for us to have a dialogue. [[Defiance.]] [[Defiance.]] And let's say that paranoia doesn't prevail. It seems that my fellow Member, Mr Bellozó, has also read one of the revelations that paranoia is a sign of life instinct over 40. (Faintness. ) I was looking at it on the Internet, and the congressman had already turned 40. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes. Defiance.]] Maybe that's why it's a vehement sound. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-19-208	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Kocsis-Cake Olivio, the lead speaker of the Dialogue Group.
u2019-11-19-209	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I do not wish to add any more to what I have to say, and I will respond in the closing words, as the pro-government people usually do. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] the reactions, since the position of the Dialogue faction is the same as that of the author. Thank you very much. (Development in the ranks of the opposition. )
u2019-11-19-210	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm in a normal time frame.
u2019-11-19-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, When I learned this great thing here tonight because I was at another committee meeting and not at the Justice Department, I, in my mind, had this dialogue that was presented by the Dialogue. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Csaba Gyure!]] He was followed by a suggestion; he was seen by someone who needed to see it, and they asked: how can we use it for our own benefit? Because, indeed, we have forgotten that, according to the Fundamental Law, on 1 January 2020 the operation of this judicial system should begin, and, therefore, we burden the legislation so much with 34 legislative proposals a week that it was not possible for this simple thing to be taken out of the Fundamental Law that it should work on 1 January. Then the fidesz bell rang, and the first answer was: listen, we can do a favor to Gergely Christmas, because we are on the opposite side, and so we can show that she has a opposition party here in this Parliament, and how gallant we are that, by the way, in nine years, this is the first opposition proposal that we allow to take on a series of subjects. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] We even allow it to be dealt with as a matter of urgency, even though we could make a decision on this in December, because it can be voted on at any time before 1 January, even on 31 December. Well, we're gonna say we're not so hostile to Gregory Christmas and his party. Then the next one, Judit Varga, Minister of Justice, says: "Well, I can sell this in international space when they're looking at democracy deficit!" That we are not a democratic rule of law? That we won't let the opposition do anything? That we're just trying to force everything into society? Well, look at him, he gave this initiative to an opposition party, and we immediately supported him. And he can say in front of the commission on misconduct and the state of democracy, our Minister of Justice because he is now also the caretaker of European affairs, that, well, children, here, look at what is exactly on this issue, in which half of Europe has joined forces against us, and we have also been denounced by the Father God, you see, we have not even had to submit it, the opposition party has submitted it, and we have otherwise approved it, we have allowed it to negotiate! Look at this, isn't democracy working in Hungary? ! Well, how dare anyone question that? So the thing is, at least five birds are killed with one stone, and the Secretary of State is cynically saying that he simply submitted them before that other one. But, I'm sorry, there is no such legislative proposal to restore the Fundamental Law. [[Dr. Pál Völner: It's connected to that!]] Well, I'm sorry. These two have nothing to do with each other. We're having a historic moment with these things. I have one thing to say: the faction that has the initial education and full support of SMA patients, I do not know how many times to vote down in this Parliament, will take it in the light of its petty self-interest, and will pass an opposition proposal, and says my fellow Member Nacsa: it will eliminate a conflict of coherence. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] [[20.40]] That means, Mr Nacsa, that if you say that you will eliminate a conflict of coherence, [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I fixed it!]] That the amendment to the basic law itself was a disorder of coherence. That's what you say. The other question is, you don't understand because you're not a lawyer. If you bring a question of coherence here, it means that what you want to solve is based on a lack of coherence. Well, you said a few minutes ago that the establishment of the administrative court and the amendment of the Fundamental Law were the problems of coherence. By the way, yeah. By the way, yeah, that really was the coherence disorder, that's right. We also fought against this not to go through, fighting half of Europe, that administrative jurisdiction in this form, I stress, in this form, because there is no problem with administrative jurisdiction, but with this form, indeed, it was indeed a lack of coherence. So I'm extremely relaxed. Each time we make proposals concerning very important living conditions and broad social layers, which we would like to at least include in a series of subjects, at least talk about it, they will not vote, I will say every time they vote in favour of their petty businesses and not in relation to the broad sections of society, just so that they can say in Europe that democracy works here. Thank you.
u2019-11-19-212	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter.
u2019-11-19-213	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, What's happened to the administrative courts over the last few months, we can say that Fidesz government is the perfect imprint. The idea was not basically from the devil, because it is difficult to argue that the system is not working properly today and that it would be fundamentally reformed. The problem is, however, that Fidesz's aim was not to effectively and legally operate the public administration system, but to grind the courts and avenge the Curia for having the courage to go against the system of national cooperation, and to look at the letter of the law several times and not at political will. This was not a reform, it was not intended for Hungary to function better or to be fairer for a moment, its purpose was merely to expand the power of the NER and to demonstrate strength against the rebel judges. Finally, Fidesz failed itself by withdrawing the entire proposal after the municipal election, recognising that this was not a reform, but only the expansion of NER. If the pro-government representatives had believed that it was in the interests of the Hungarian people, they would obviously not have withdrawn it after such a defeat, but accelerated the adoption of the law. In reality, they backed out of the proposal at such a speed that they didn't even realize that it was in the granite-solid Fundamental Law. Of course, the LMP faction supports the withdrawal from the Fundamental Law of the part allowing the establishment of administrative courts. We expect the government to support this proposal and thus prove that they have not only announced the withdrawal of the proposal in their confusion after defeat, but also meant it. It is clear that in that form they no longer want to implement administrative courts, essentially the separate administrative court being removed from the agenda. However, we need to highlight tomorrow's debate and the bill that is here in front of the House tomorrow, that they are essentially trying to smuggle the method back from a procedural point of view with the Law on District Courts, and they are trying to solve the original goal that many of my fellow Members have been talking about here, so I would not want to go further into it, in essence, to grind up the courts. I am expressing my hope that this will not succeed as much as this is their original proposal. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-19-214	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Now you're gonna get it.]]
u2019-11-19-215	Thank you very much. I just want to make two clarifications. One is that the amendment to the basic law cannot be submitted in the same package as other laws, perhaps the congresswoman knows that. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Yes, in one piece!]] So we could have submitted it with another one. Here I referred to the fact that the number of this package had been preceded by the package submitted by the Dialogue, so it would not have actually been elegant if we had submitted instead, because obviously it would have been that it was not good what the opposition was submitting. You're very strange, because if we take in an opposition initiative, that's the problem. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Nana, nana!]] If we don't take him in, that's the problem. So, basically, that means we're getting back the initiative not to demand such gestures in the future. [[Applause from the pro-government benches. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Yes! I said this is what's gonna happen from here on out.]] So the majority in Parliament should no longer accept the opposition proposal. I am very sorry that this consensus has developed between the factions opposite. The other part is that it was said at the Fundamental Law that this was an urgent and urgent immediate task. Read carefully: there is no time for setting up supreme courts in the Fundamental Law, so indeed, with this package, the amendment could have been tabled by the government. At the same time, if it had been cancelled, it would not have depended on the Hungarian legal system as the sword of Damokles on 31 December or anything else, and there would have been no coherence problem if this had not happened. I am sorry that this has so far developed in connection with the inclusion of this initiative. I hope that we will be able to achieve a greater consensus here in the forthcoming debate or even during the Commission's work. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-11-19-216	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I now give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure.
u2019-11-19-217	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to some of the things that have been said here, whether in my speech or in other speeches. I have already received in the previous debate that I should not refer to textbooks written during socialism, because there were textbooks written by people who, under the influence of communist ideas and socialist ideas, could not think realisticly and expressed an unrealistic opinion about the old administrative court. I would like to quote the text of the textbook, which is the XXVI of 1886. He wrote about the law: he separated the administrative courts from the judicial system, but the government centralised them under his own supervision, and held the administrative court in a position dependent on appointments and promotions. That's what you said, of course, this is socialist ideology, and the rest of it, let's ignore that. But I pulled out Minister Trocsányi's expo from the time he told me here. Among other things, he said, for example, what I think was an extremely cynical statement, that the new administrative court system is more embodied in the self-limitation of the executive authority and provides more effective control of administrative decisions. Well, this bill was just about the opposite. But he himself referred to law historians in his expo, including József Szabó, a legal historian. I drew up what József Szabó wrote about this in XXVI of 1886. I quote József Szabó, to whom Minister Trócsányi also referred. He says that the year 1886 was XXVI. Historical responsibility for the lack of effective administrative protection in the Act lies with the political elite of the time. What's in this? It is clear that there was no effective protection of administrative law and that it is the political elite of his time, because they still wanted to exercise power for their own good, and they wanted to influence judicial independence. My fellow Member Nacsa accuses me that what is old and Hungarian and which is in old Hungarian history or history of law, I want to abolish it because I think it is old and that it is good, I think it is bad? Not at all, I never said that, I never said anything like that in any of my sentences, that anything that's old tradition and value, we wouldn't appreciate. If someone appreciates old traditions and values, I think it's the Jobbik faction most of all, and there's nothing to blame for us attacking anything in this. We are attacking when, on the one hand, it is not XXI that the legislation does indeed have something to say. It's from the century, but it's from the 19th century. It is also the first half of the century and, on the other hand, it is in the power interest of the law which is the 21st century. It is unacceptable in the democracy of the 20th century and does not serve Hungarian national interests, but serves only government interests. [[20.50]] Mr. Secretary of State called it impropriety, which I have stated here in relation to the administrative courts about the powers of the Minister. Well, I drew out the law, and even if he doesn't say he's gonna call back, but he says the text of the law is 61. I quote paragraph 4 that it is true that the Minister, in his duties in relation to personal matters, decides, on a proposal from the President of the Administrative Supreme Court, whether the reduction in the jurisdiction or jurisdiction of the court is such that further employment of the judge is not possible there. So the minister can decide well, there are limits that the judge's further employment is not possible, and that is in the legislation, but he can move him anywhere, anywhere, he has the right to do so. Thus, in personal matters, he has the power to make decisions that can create a lot of fear in the judge, to influence him, not to mention the allocation system, and the rest, and the rest, with which I claim, would have been a lot of problems. Then my fellow Member, Nacsa, spoke about the doubt that Fidesz-KDNP had a constitutional mandate in 2010. We never said there wasn't. We didn't even tell you there was no new constitution. It was only part of the Jobbik Hungary Movement programme, and in its 2010 programme, the need for a new constitution is needed in Hungary. He was only in our program, and we were the ones who didn't sell bagcats, but we told the voters in advance that if they gave us permission, what they could expect from us. We said that we wanted a new basic law, and here the opinions of Fidesz, KDNP and Jobbik were the same; the rest did not match because we could not reach consensus on anything else. But I would like to draw your attention to one more thing, though, to my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, who says that they had this constitutional mandate. Legally, it was practically not there because the constitution at the time said that a four fifth parliamentary majority was needed for the adoption of a new constitution or for the adoption of its concept. The Prime Minister, who put this in the Constitution, was called Gyula Horn, when the MSZP and SZDSZ together had two thirds, and Gyula Horn said in that constitutional order, and the bill was justified by the fact that now that there is a two-thirds majority in Parliament, it would not be fair to change the Constitution by excluding opposition parties. It's very interesting that you're going to join me on the Constitutional Court. an amendment to the law, in whose final provisions a single little sentence was smuggled into it, in which it was said that, at the same time as this law entered into force, the Constitution 24. Paragraph 5 shall be repealed. At that time, one did not understand that it was certain that there was something in it about the Constitutional Court, and after more careful reading, it turned out that you had smuggled in the four-fifths so that Parliament could eliminate the four-fifths by two-thirds, so that it could have a constitutional mandate without Jobbik, or Fidesz without any other opposition party. That's right. You smuggled it into it, and you wanted to carry it through it secretly, and then it became a big scandal in the parliamentary debate, when it turned out that you had smuggled the amendment of the constitution into a salad law, which replaced the four fifths to two-thirds, so that you would be able to bring a constitution alone in the system of national cooperation, not in consultation with anyone, and not to discuss it with anyone. From what I see, it is clear from these that the statements that we have made about this law, whether the Constitution or the Fundamental Law, or its adoption, are those, and here, indeed, many opposition representatives have expressed their position as to why they are in the interest of you to make this amendment. I am pleased that you will act in the interests of the Hungarian nation, and for the sake of the Hungarian people you will vote for a bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-19-218	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I will ask Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio to comment as rapporteur. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor.
u2019-11-19-219	Thank you for the floor. A few reactions to what has been said, first of all to the Secretary of State. You do this several times to refer to the fact that there is such a thing in another country and it works perfectly well. I'm surprised you're doing this as a lawyer, because you know you can't compare different countries according to the legal system, according to constitutional arrangements. Their legal history is completely different. The fact that you guys keep taking the nastiest, worst laws, bringing them here and putting them all together is Frankenstein's legislation. We don't want any of your Frankenstein legislation. This is unacceptable. My fellow Member Nacsa said that this was a sensible proposal and that he could come. My fellow Member, if we were to submit this proposal six months ago, did it not make any sense? So it depends on what makes sense, when do we submit it? [[Dr. Pál Völner: If not relevant!]] Then we'll try a few more laws in the future. [[Dr. Pál Völner: If you're reasonable!]] I hope you can find a similar positive attitude. We would also like to amend the Fundamental Law in a number of places. Please be kind enough to support it, and not in six months' time, when it is in the government's best interest. By the way, the idea came from the fact that you repeatedly said that you were going to postpone the administrative courts, and we were thinking, we were thinking, well, actually, it looks like you weren't giving up on it, and then when there was less pressure, or when you played the game with the European People's Party, you were going to smuggle it back, and that's why we didn't even accidentally bring it back, because it could only be a fundamental amendment. Well, unfortunately, he'll be back tomorrow morning, but that's another argument. I call on the fellow Members to support this proposal. By the way, it was worth it, because it was a rather unique moment in Hungarian parliamentarism that a fundamental amendment to the opposition was so enthusiastically supported by the governing parties. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-19-220	Thank you, Congressman. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. The general debate on the proposal for a decision to commemorate the uprising of the people of Timisoara is now taking place until closure. The submission submitted by MEPs Zsolt Németh, Barna Pál Zsigmond, Károly Panczél H/8034. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Németh, the author of the item on the agenda.
u2019-11-19-221	Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Áron Tamási has a short story titled Transylvanian Society, in which a Hungarian, Romanian and Saxon lad is placed at a table in a tavern, and everyone's melody is blown away on the beautiful three-ring flute of the Romanian lad, and they drink wine together. Then a Romanian sergeant pops up from the next table, takes it, and sticks to the flute. You broke the common treasure, you fool! The Hungarian lad Lőrinc shouts at him. This narrative is the essence of dictatorship in Central Europe. The memory and spirituality of the thirty-year-old revolution in Timisoara is an inheritance that still connects the Hungarian and Romanian nations. Yet, to date, there has been no generally accepted common interpretation in the interpretation of the Romanian Revolution, even within Romania. I am convinced that the Romanian-Hungarian common interpretation of Timisoara will be born in the process of progressing in reconciliation between the two nations. Thirty-three years after the Romanian movements linked to the fifty-six revolution and retaliated with bloody hands like the Hungarian Revolution, on 15 December 1989 in Timisoara and in the following days, Romanians from Romania again joined together for their common freedom. The desire for freedom and the stand for freedom connected the two peoples as early as 1956. Fifty-six also served as inspiration, as a preview and as a pattern in many aspects of Timisoara in December 89. [[21.00]] Hungarians and Romanians protected László Tőkés's Hungarian Reformed pastor's apartment in Temesvár from the violence organs of the dictatorship, which wanted to retaliate that the young pastor spoke openly about the sufferings of those living in the Ceaușescu system and the nature of dictatorship in front of the world's public. It is no exaggeration to say that dictatorship was perhaps the darkest of Soviet-type communist dictatorships. A reformed minister's faith in God and courageous prophetic expression brought light to this. The citizens of Romania, including many of them, who, by the way, have been honoured by the parliamentary decree, so the citizens of Romania have been heroic for religious and conscientious, assembly and freedom of speech, and for the return of their country to the free world. The change in the Eastern Central European system reached Romania last, but to this day it became incomprehensiblely only violent and bloody. Hungary followed the events with a repressed breath. In the 1980s, the increasing pressure on Transylvanian Hungarians attracted increasing attention in the mother country. The emergence of thousands of refugees and tens of thousands of refugees began in 1986, so that, besides 1956, the change of regime in Hungary may have become the most important topic of foreign Hungarians, which then peaked in the Transylvanian demonstration against the destruction of the village in June 1988, one year before the re-mortem of Imre Nagy. In Hungarian society, the elemental feeling of national solidarity with Transylvanian Hungarians and sympathy for the Romanian majority society broke out at the same time on 22 December. From 22 December long convoys started and delivered aid donations spontaneously collected by the citizens of the country to Romanians fighting with the repressive machinery of the dictatorship. In December 1989, the Romanian flag with a hole became a symbol in Hungary as well as the Hungarian flag with a hole in Romania 1956. We Hungarians also knew what the Romanian revolutionaries knew that we could only be free together for a long time. It is a symbolic link that besides the many Romanian and Hungarian victims, the Romanian revolution was also a victim in Hungary. On December 23, Arad was killed by a sniper, Sándor Tóth, who arrived in the city as a driver of a Hungarian relief convoy. There was no difference between Romanian and Hungarian victims. What violence was able to prevent in 1956, the common freedom won in 89, Hungary and Romania once again took their place in the free western world. What we achieved 30 years ago is our shared responsibility today. The joint responsibility of the Hungarian and Romanian people is to protect the freedom of each other and of other European nations within the framework of the EU, NATO and other Euroatlantic structures. It is not for the presentation to assess the Romanian-Hungarian relations system of the last three decades, the situation of Transylvanian Hungarians. What can be said is that what we have not achieved can be explained by the lack of dialogue, but what we have achieved can be linked to dialogue. However, we can record that there are serious tasks ahead of us regarding the Romanian-Hungarian relationship and the future of Transylvanian Hungarians. In view of the interests of the two nations and the memory of those who sacrifice their lives for common freedom, on the anniversary of the outbreak of the revolution in Romania in 89, Parliament believes in the need to strengthen cooperation, dialogue and alliance between the two countries. During the Romanian revolution, I went on my way, knocking on the door of the forced dwelling of the old family friend László Tőkés, on the dawn of December 23rd, and bringing a message, which Magyar Television also delivered that day. In these days, with my friends, such as David Campanale BBC journalist, young people from Kédvásárhely, we came up with the idea of the Free University of Idolos, which worked not only as a Hungarian-Hungarian meeting, but also as a specific Hungarian-Romanian meeting. It is not a coincidence that László Tőkés is the indispensable participant of this event for 30 years. The evaluation of the role of not only Timisoara, but also of László Tőkés is a mirror of Hungarian-Romanian relations. László Tőkés stood before the eyes of the entire population of Romania as the bomber of the revolution. He became a member of the revolutionary council, spoke on the television reception. As a Hungarian, he received the highest award in Romania, the Star of Romania. Unfortunately, this clear and unquestioned role was questioned by the Romanian policy when it was stripped of its medal. We are in this process today that his complaint about the withdrawal of the Romanian state medal was rejected by the Court of Justice in Bucharest, and that he set the new appeal hearing on 4 June 2020 at the centenary of the Trianon Peace Act. Perhaps we are not far from the truth if we assume that a noble gesture is exercised behind the setting of the date. The Hungarian state acknowledged László Tőkés as a person with great cross and honor. A similar assessment of its role will also be a sure sign that our bilateral relations have changed promisingly. We, the authors of the proposal, for our part, consider the process of Timisoara as the paradigm of Hungarian-Romanian relations. The other directions, such as the black March 90 or the anti-Hungarian events in Zuzvölgy, are considered temporary and can be overcome. In fact, we are two interlinked nations of Central and Eastern Europe with very close values and interests. The current Romanian Prime Minister, Ludovic Orban, Lajos Orbán is half Hungarian, his religion is unitarian, he speaks Hungarian. In addition to the 30th anniversary, this recent development is also an opportunity to speak literally to each other and return to the one-way process in Timisoara, because Timisoara is obligated. Let's find again the joint flute on which the Romanian and Hungarian melodies can sound. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-11-19-222	Thank you, Congressman. I'll ask him if he'd like to comment on behalf of the government, Secretary of State. [[On Tamás Vargha's mark:]] It says yes. Mr. Secretary Tamás Vargha has the floor.
u2019-11-19-223	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, 30 years ago, 30 years ago, East Germany, Czechoslovakia and Hungary may have been past the system shifting dawn. There were irreversible processes at that time, which led to the collapse of communist dictatorships. In December 1989, however, Romanians and Romanian Hungarians were still suffering together the freezing everyday life of the autocracy. Hungarian minority existence doubled this suffering, as the power also attacked the national identity of our countrymen across the border, and drawing power from the mother country was still very, very difficult at that time. But then Romanians, Hungarians and Saxons fought together in Timisoara, and then across the country, fighting together in the hope of a better fate, a more livable life together. László Tőkés, the young pastor, despite the close control of the Romanian secret police, lit a spark there. There and then László Tőkés stood up and held on, fought and won, driven by some kind of extraterrestrial hope. He fought and won together Romanian and Hungarian. On clothing, the wind blew blue-yellow-red and red-white-green ribbons bound together on cars. [[21.10]] Then the wind turned into a storm, swept away the dictatorship, and later new winds began to blow, colder winds, and the bundled tapes disappeared, and this shared hope was disappointed. This is what President János Áder said in his festive speech addressed to Ma. The thirty years that have passed mean that he has grown up to be a generation born in freedom. Of course, this generation has also fought, and it will continue to fight its own struggles. But every time he struggles with difficulties, he can think of those who once said their own existence, freedom and even their lives at risk the justice of the Hungarians here in the Carpathian Basin. Thirty years ago, the persecuted became community leaders. Their sufferings, their struggles made them credible, and balancing on the margins of survival made them strong. And we pay tribute to their exemplary stand and their attachment to Hungarianism. Dear Parliament, The standing and perseverance of László Tőkés, Timisoara is both a symbol and a message. It is a symbol of the cooperation between the two peoples and of the dialogue that President Zsolt Németh has just mentioned. And it is a message, since it sends us that the ideas and principles and the rights of the Hungarians in which we agreed at the time, in winter 1989, must also be implemented in the future. Dear Parliament, The Government of Hungary supports the Parliamentary resolution proposal, please support it, and thank you for your attention.
u2019-11-19-224	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor first to Károly Panczél, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-11-19-225	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say in advance that the proposal for a decision to commemorate the uprising of the people of Timisoara was supported this week by the Committee of National Inclusion with a unanimous vote in favour of bringing it into the series. Dear House, I think that memory policy is an extremely important thing. There are a number of elements: these can be public statues, plaques, public spaces, names of streets, or even such parliamentary resolutions or memorial days and commemorative years, as have many fine examples in recent years. I would like to recall two of the things that have the significance of being able to connect the sons of several nations. Such is the year II. Ferenc Rákóczi Memorial Year, which is connected to Slovaks, Hungarians from Upper Hungary, Hungarians and Ruthenians from Transylvania, Hungarians from Zemplén and Transylvania, and I would also like to refer to one whose debate will be tomorrow, the Miklós Zrínyi Memorial Year, which connects Hungarians, Croatians and even Styrians in Austria. Heroes, events we are proud of, these are what the memory policy is about, which strengthens national consciousness, identity, and is also the key to Hungarian survival in the Carpathian Basin. The fact of the Romanian revolution is that the focal point of the Romanian revolution, the spark of László Tőkés and the Hungarians of Timisoara. Dear House, This is the recent history and the recent history of Hungary is also remembered today. After all, the event is taking place for 30 years, where we remember the change of regime, the end of the one-party dictatorship, the fall of the iron curtain, the reunion of Europe. We remember in Hungary, as we have already heard from Zsolt Németh, the protests against village destruction, which preceded the Hungarian regime change, the redeployment of Imre Nagy and his martyrs, the dismantling of the western border closure, and there are commemorations and celebrations of events 30 years ago throughout Europe. This was the case in Poland this spring when they remembered the opening of roundtable negotiations, which was also a pattern for a negotiated Hungarian regime change. But this weekend there were celebrations in the Czech Republic, in which they remembered the velvet revolution in Prague. Turn points, places, events to remember. Situation in Romania in 1989. We heard a lot from the author about this period, but it must be said that although in 1985 the relief began in the eastern part of Europe, the Perestroika and Glasnosty of Gorbachos started in the Soviet Union at that time, but this had no effect on Romania. In Romania, the Ceauşescu dictatorship continued to grow. There was a Dráko rigour in the country, a police state with secret police, tens of thousands of informants, and Romania then became unlivable, poverty, poverty, food shortages. To this came the destruction of the village, which they cynically called settlement planning, and by the way, it was used to eliminate the Hungarian and the remaining Saxon communities. After such circumstances, the revolution broke out in December 1989, which was preceded by the report with László Tőkés, where Pastor László Tőkés described the attacks on him, criticized the dictatorship on 11 December, and asked for international assistance. On December 15, news spread in Timisoara that Securiate had made preparations for the eviction of László Tőkés, and the revolution began here. Solidarity with László Tőkés, who was harassed by state security, became a hundred thousand protests in the city within days. The revolution spread from Timisoara to Banat, Transylvania, and became a nationwide uprising. It was a bloody revolution. Contrary to the Hungarian, Polish transformation, this was a bloody revolution, Arad, Timisoara, Lugos, Cluj-Napoca or Sibiu already claimed more than 200 victims in the first days. And during the Christmas holidays and the holiday season until the end of the year, the festival was replaced by terror, since a thousand civilians and uniforms lost their lives. Of course, we cannot forget the solidarity shown in Hungary, because, as we have heard from my fellow Member Zsolt Németh, car caravans were launched with shipments of pharmaceuticals, food deliveries during the Christmas holidays, which continued in the spring of the following year, and indeed, this bloody revolution has claimed an innocent Hungarian sacrifice. Returning to Timisoara, on 20 December 1989 there was a protest of 100,000 people in Timisoara, the army was withdrawn, so we can say that Timisoara was the first free city in Romania. The city inhabited by Romanians, Hungarians, Serbs and Germans was the first free city. Dear House, In Romania today, 30 years after the revolution, we can say that there is a multi-party system. In parentheses, it is what it is, since it has seven governments in ten years. But Romania is now a member of the European Union and a member of the North Atlantic Alliance. However, we may wonder whether the intentions of that time, the intentions of 30 years ago, were fulfilled, which concerned whether human dignity, religious freedom, and the rights of national minorities had been fully fulfilled since then. It's kind of like the statement from Gyulafehérvár a hundred years ago. There, too, all freedoms have been promised to national minorities; likewise, unfortunately, the objectives of 30 years ago have not yet been achieved and have not been achieved in Romania. [[21.20]] Dear House, However, we must say that the revolution in Timisoara is an inheritance that connects the Hungarian and Romanian nations. This can indeed be celebrated together, and it can be remembered together. Dialogue and cooperation can lead to the solution of problems in order to achieve the rights of minority protection in Partium, Transylvania, which were agreed upon on Christmas 1989. I do not want to interfere, nor can I intervene in Romanian domestic affairs, and perhaps it is too naive, but perhaps we can still live to see that instead of 1 December, the national holiday of Romania will be 15 December, which does not separate us, but connects us. December 15, 1989. Timisoara, the Romanian Revolution, László Tőkés and the Hungarians of Timisoara deserve and deserve to be remembered. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-11-19-226	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to János Bencsik, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2019-11-19-227	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We now have an important initiative to draw attention to the fact that Hungarians and Romanians stood shoulder to shoulder in Romania in December 1989 to overthrow freedom and the tyrannical Ceauşescu dictatorship. Young and old, believers and unbelievers, Hungarians, Romanians, Germans protected young László Tőkés, pastor of the Reformed Temesvár, who was wanted to be taken away from his home by the violence organizations of the dictatorship. Their brave stand is indeed exemplary, and it is also worth remembering this in the form of a resolution by the Hungarian Parliament. At the same time, we have a slight lack of feeling about the text of the proposal, and we will therefore be submitting three amendments. We hope that these will meet with your support. First, we will propose that this proposal for a resolution not only remembers Romanians and Hungarians, but all the nationalities of Romania, as Germans, Serbs or even Gypsies participated in the revolution and the overthrow of the Ceauşescu system. It would be important to include this in the text only because, according to the historical tradition, Timisoara, as my fellow Member Károly Pánczél referred to, is made up of four ethnicities: Romanian, Hungarian, German and Serbian. Our second amendment is an amendment that refers to the fact that, by adopting the proposal for a resolution, Parliament supports the organisation of commemorations, conferences, professional and literary works, as well as the implementation of audiovisual materials. We believe that this is necessary and possible despite the proximity of the anniversary. Thirdly, the proposal for a decision rightly refers to the Romanian-Hungarian cooperation with high hopes, which could have been the basis for creating a new Romania. The creation of a new Romania, which recognises its nationalities, treats them as allies instead of national security risks, and considers Hungary as a strategic partner instead of a threat. In December 1989 we hoped for a Romania where we could have a meaningful dialogue on autonomy in Szeklerland or in the mermaid region, where you can learn freely from all Hungarians' mother tongues from kindergartens to universities, where you can freely use our national flags and coats of arms, and where Hungarian entrepreneurs have the same chance of starting as their Romanian or any other national competitors. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that many of our Hungarian compatriots living in Romania, but also Romanians and citizens of other nationalities regret that the processes in Timisoara have lived for only a few months. In March 1990, the Romanian state security, Securiate, with the agreement and support of the political elite, provoked a bloody pogrom in Tarosvásárhely, resulting in thousands of Hungarians leaving Transylvania, further weakening the Hungarian communities living there. To this day, we have failed to heal the spiritual wounds of the black March, the scars of which are still borne by Transylvanian Hungarians. Perhaps we could refer to this in the resolution proposal for a half sentence. This would be justified only because three decades after the collapse of the communist dictatorship today there is again a risk of ethnic clashes in our eastern neighbourhood. It's enough to think of the barbaric attack on the Uzvölgy military cemetery, where pissed off chauvinists with Romanian secret service support launched an attack on the peaceful Hungarians making up the protective chain. It is no coincidence that more and more Hungarians in Transylvania were afraid of the repeat of the black March, and unfortunately, the new Romanian government is not really a partner in resolving cases that are harmful to local Hungarians as soon as possible. All in all, we consider the fundamental positive message of the resolution proposal to be important about the Hungarian-Romanian dialogue, but we consider it at least as important to express our regret that we have not been able to find our way back on the path of cooperation 30 years ago to this day. I would therefore ask my fellow Members, if they agree, to support our amendments, just as we are open to your amendments. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-11-19-228	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2019-11-19-229	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank Zsolt Németh and his fellow Members for their initiative, and for being the advocate and initiator of the Hungarian-Romanian dialogue for thirty years, and when this was not exactly at the top, it was not his fault, but the reception skills of the other party were often the problem. On the part of the KDNP, of course, we support the parliamentary proposal to commemorate the heroes of the Uprising in Timisoara and to commemorate it. We, Christian Democrats, stand firm for Hungarians across the border and pay tribute to the actors of those events, Bishop László Tőkés and the Hungarian and Romanian heroes of Timisoara, who started the democratic processes and transformations in Romania thirty years ago. The Hungarian and Romanian people of Timisoara showed great courage when, in 1989, regardless of denomination, they protected László Tőkés's apartment against the violence organizations of the dictatorship with a common living chain. I must be honest with you that I was only informed about these periods by telling you, because when these events happened, I was not yet alive. Later, my parents and grandparents told me a lot about this period, and many things in common were family topics, and then I could visit the sites myself, so that I could remember them later. By their opposition to the dictatorship of the tyrannical dictatorship, the brave people of Timisoara made faith in democracy, freedom of conscience and religion, human and minority rights. The freedom now taken for granted, just as in 1956 in Hungary, in 1989 in Romania, was not granted free of charge. In 1989 the Hungarians and Romanians of Timisoara openly dared to oppose the full power and infamous, cruel secret service of the communist dictatorship. The uprisings in Timisoara risked their physical integrity, personal freedom, and their lives to stand up for their conviction, which deserves maximum respect and respect. The value of the events in Timisoara 30 years ago is also increased by the fact that people of Hungarian and Romanian nationality joined together for freedom. This common foundation, this cooperation, the common love of freedom, should always come back again and again, as these are common points, the common flute, which should be nurtured, preserved and perhaps renewed from time to time. The joint action of Hungarians and Romanians in 1989 against the bloody dictatorship is still a symbol of the love of Hungarians and Romanians for freedom and the mutual respect of the two nations for each other. We therefore support the proposal for a decision on the part of the KDNP. The Hungarian and Romanian heroes and victims of the Uprising in Timisoara are still role models who have contributed to a united, free Europe. Let us remember the heroes of Timisoara and the victims in a worthy manner. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[21.30]]
u2019-11-19-230	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2019-11-19-231	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, this proposal for a resolution commemorates a moment in soul and history. A moment where people moved simultaneously against dictatorship and in the interest of freedom, regardless of religion or even nationality. Therefore, the Hungarian Socialist Party will wholeheartedly support this proposal. I ask Mr Németh, who is initiating this proposal, and a long-standing foreign politician within Fidesen, that all the beautiful things and good that we have heard in Parliament today about the friendship of the two peoples, in comparison with what has been said here by the lead speaker of Jobbik about the processes that have recently made Romanian and Hungarian coexistence in Romania difficult, please be responsible, the government should be most responsible next year, given that it will be a very, very difficult year in the lives of the two peoples. All political forces, at least all extreme political forces, will be interested in not living together and being friends in Romania, which would otherwise appear in the proposal for a resolution, but in bringing the two nations together. The Hungarian government has a huge responsibility in this regard. That is what I wanted to add, and we support the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-19-232	Thank you, Congressman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató.
u2019-11-19-233	Mr President, Dear House, All of us who have lived in 1989 more or less as adults, I think we all remember the feeling when we finally saw that the last truly hard and truly cruel communist dictatorship in our neighbourhood is beginning to crack and collapse. We remember the feeling that I thought was typical of all Hungarians at the time, the terrible relief and happiness that filled all of us when we saw that perhaps a new era of history was beginning. A historical era that was characterised by crazy nationalism and artificial opposition, especially during the last period of the Ceauşescu period, when people were deprived of their rights only because they belonged to one or another national minority, when the entire Hungarian community and not only the Hungarian community, but also the German community, suffered continuous retaliation and repression, when the withdrawal and repression of the Hungarian community, which also affected Romanians, may have hit the Hungarian community even more than the end of the period. The proposal for a resolution remembers in a very worthy way the beautiful moment in history when, I think, we were all full of hope that a period of dialogue could begin, which is characterised by cooperation, which Mr President has actually talked about in his presentation. I think he spoke from the hearts of all of us. A lot has happened since then. And let me add one more thing. There was no political difference at that time, at that moment between the left and the right, between Christians and atheists, there was neither within the left. I knew a lot of people who had a terrible relief, a man with left-wing convictions, who was glad that the horror that had happened in Romania was finally over. A lot has happened since then. Much has happened in Hungarian internal politics, which separates us on this issue, and a lot has happened in Romania too, which separates the actors of the time, those who thought together at that time. But it has value and meaning to remember that there was a moment like this once. So that we don't reflect on how politics has become a plaything for Hungarians across the border, because obviously we can only fight about it, and we can only push on to each other. So that we do not reflect on how the extremes of the two countries sometimes work together to strengthen one another. Let us not meditate on how old bad reflexes appear, but on believing that we have a dream about Central Europe. About a European area in which reconciliation can be achieved, historical conflicts can be resolved, where no one has to face persecution or disadvantage because of taking on a national or other identity. I think it is important that we recall this moment today, so that the Parliament can recall this moment. I hope that we will also find in the wording solutions that are appropriate for all political sides. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-19-234	Thank you, Congressman. If there is no further intention to comment [[There's no candidate.]] The general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Zsolt Németh, if he would like to comment. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-11-19-235	I do not wish to comment, but I would like to express my joy that an angel has passed over the Hungarian Parliament and we agree. Thank you very much.
u2019-11-19-236	Thank you, Congressman. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. This concludes the discussion of our agendas. I thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed.
