u2019-07-08-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. Laszlo Hajdu stays seated. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The Fourth Special Meeting of Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome, my dear guests, and everyone who monitors our work. Dear House, I declare that Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén, on behalf of the Government, is the XXXVI of 2012 on Parliament. Law 35. On 8 July 2019 the Parliament initiated an extraordinary meeting on the basis of Article 1 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The motion and its annex can be found on the website by Members and interested parties. Dear House, Tamás Mellar, on behalf of the Dialogue, applied for a pre-meeting speech. I give you the floor.
u2019-07-08-1	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, We arrived at the last week of the spring session, so it is appropriate to look back a little bit on what has happened in recent months. A lot of good things can't be said about this period either. The governing party will continue where it left off in December when it passed the slave law. In this period, what has happened, and this is last week's event, is that 131 pro-government representatives voted in favour of the separation of academic research institutions, in short: the destruction of the Academy. Let us remember this 131 names, and I think that public opinion can help us in this, because there are many places where various shame walls have been opened, where 131 Members are mentioned by name, because this is indeed a historical act, but it is a negative historical act, and we hope that the accountability will take place sooner or later. During the debate on academic institutions, Minister Palkovics talked all along about following the German model, that the whole transformation was in fact the German model. Even in the course of the debate, we stated that this was not the case, the German practice was quite different. In the last few days, German academic life has stood up for the academic institutions almost entirely, and has said that this transformation in Hungary has nothing to do with the German model. I think that this is also worth emphasising because it is not only a protest in Germany, but almost everywhere in the world. More than 120 scientific communities, including Academia Europaea, have condemned this law from the Hungarian Academy Council of Vojvodina. But we don't have time to deal with the Academy because we have to move on, because the next victim is public education. The amendment of the Public Education Act is clearly intended to further reduce the autonomy of educational institutions and the freedom of teaching. The education forced into the centrally managed national basic curriculum will necessarily have a low efficiency, since it cannot count on the differences that are reflected in the country, because the second is quite different. The situation of district students and children growing up in the Ormania, and teaching students in Sopron or the Nyírvány in a completely different way. Of course, the aim of public education in Hungary today is not to give educated heads of people to society, but people who can fit well into the NER system, who are obedient citizens who will be able to work well in assembly plants. And it doesn't have to be, and it's definitely not good if they can think on their own, if they can navigate on their own, because then the whole government propaganda will actually fail, migranting, serialisation and Brusselsing will not be the end of the line. But the Orbán government couldn't solve the other task that he wanted, because, as the poet says, he can do the trick, the cat won't do the mouse in and out at the same time. For people deprived of their freedom, demented, obedient people can produce only very low efficiency, they cannot be expected to achieve high productivity, innovation cannot be expected, and we cannot expect a competitive economy to develop. Therefore, despite the MNB and the Ministry of Finance's ambitious plan to increase competitiveness, there is a very strong lack of high-quality human capital. If the government's goal really was to create educated heads of people, it would eliminate KLIK, NAT, raise the pay of teachers four to five times, reduce their clock load, because there is a chronic shortage of teachers and ensure freedom of teaching. But from these revolutionary changes, we are as far away as our per capita income from the Finns. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] I mentioned the Finns because the Finns have implemented an educational reform that has been very successful in recent years. Thank you very much. Excuse me. [[11.10]]
u2019-07-08-2	On behalf of the government, Mr. Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés has the floor.
u2019-07-08-3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It is not the first time in Parliament, when you speak, that you are opening up a wide range of questions and ideas. This is what has happened now, and in many cases, I think you have drawn wrong conclusions about the wrong foundations. Among other things, I say this because it seems as if you do not care what has happened in this Parliament in the last six months and a half; you have given and given a kind of specific interpretation to the facts, and in the way that many predictions or predictions have not worked so far, hopefully, and even my conviction, will not work in the next period. If we are talking about MTA, I have to repeat some thoughts regularly for weeks, even on a sitting day several times, and I have to do it again today. The most important goal is to have a well-functioning network of institutions and research institutes in Hungary. A network and research institutes can work to the greatest extent to meet the economic needs of both basic and applied research. This transformation serves this purpose, and in the next period it is expected that the transformation was very, very good. Contrary to you, it must be said that this was done because international knowledge centres, including the Commission of the European Union, said that the Hungarian scientific system is facing serious challenges. If you don't believe that, a number I've already told you last week, I'd like to introduce you to a ranking. On the basis of an international comparison, the latest edition of the European Innovation Ranking states that our country's innovation performance is at most stagnant and that the other countries are improving, so our position has deteriorated even further, and we have fallen back to 23rd place by comparing the performance of the 28 EU Member States. I don't know, he was here last week when we talked about the Academy of Sciences, and we mentioned a few words in the form of questions and answers; I also said that this is why we have to change the operation of the research institutes, because if we leave it that way... Several attempts have been made since 2006 to make it possible to operate more efficiently and to operate research institutions more efficiently, but these experiments have not worked. This is why it has been necessary to change the way in which Hungarian research institutes carry out research as an independent body, with the help of a governing body of internationally recognised scientists. But if you wanted to give me a six-month review, let me say a few words about the results that the government has achieved over the past few years with the help of the people of Hungary and with its strong support. If we look only at unemployment, it was just last week that the statistics appeared, the unemployment rate fell to 3.4 percent, unlike the period before 2010 or 2010, which was your allies, from whom you were separated before the 2018 elections, and then you found yourself there one moment after another, because you gave up your principles in the Socialist and Dialogue faction, so you were in your allies' time. The unemployment rate was about 12 percent. Or there have been significant changes in the area of employment, as employment in Hungary has increased significantly. Employment improved by about 10 percentage points. This means that almost 800,000 more people are working in Hungary today than they have worked in the past. It should be added that the family support system has also improved significantly over the past period, and the budget for the next period, the 2020 budget, will also be for family protection and a budget for support for families. We have also announced an economic protection action plan to ensure that the economy will grow in the next period and that families will be able to raise future generations safely. This means that the amount of subsidies for families increased by nearly 10 percentage points, which means HUF 224 billion. What is it if it is not a result, honourable Member? Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-07-08-4	Member Ágnes Kunhalmi of the MSZP Group has also applied for a speech before the agenda. I give you the floor.
u2019-07-08-5	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Hungary has a government today, and Budapest has a fidesz leadership that considers cattle more important than the citizens of Budapest. Just a few days ago, the agricultural purse decree required that ruminants must not be transported at temperatures above 30 °C, with only climate. That's a commendable sensitivity. Only on the metros, trams and the capital buses on the days of Canikula there are more than 30 degrees of land..., degrees of land..., degrees of land..., above the temperature [[Fits, big noise. Cries from the pro-government benches: Nono!]] So hundreds of thousands of Budapesters must get from home to work in such warm and such conditions. When you ask the Fidesz mayor of Budapest about when there will be air-conditioned fittings, he just cynically says: shouldn't I have a buffet? Well, please, no, it's not a food truck, it's the capital that needs a new, responsible leadership. Because in the summer, the Budapesters were sick and tired of coming to their workplace early in the morning, sweating, dirty and stinking, while the Fidesz elite, who was king in Budapest, was looking down from his apartments in the Castle at an unspeakably low price. [[11.20]] Because today there are two parallel worlds living side by side in Budapest: a few hundred, perhaps a few thousand, who live and work here, without Fidesz, government relations. They're the ones who try to live, survive, they're the ones that today's power just takes away. It takes away the freedom, the good school, the air-conditioned buses, the good air, the green trees from whom they take away the opportunity, the opportunity for economic prosperity, the economic area, they take away the homes and the possibility of safe health care. While the capital's budget has basically been halved since 2010, its debt has been regenerating, the city's GDP-generating capacity is constantly crumbling and falling inwards, and certainly Prague, Bratislava, Warsaw, but even Bucharest is ahead of us. The people of Budapest have had enough of you, Fidesz, and they have had enough of you for five years, more people wanted to change five years ago, but in two weeks, in the middle of the summer, you rewrote the Budapest electoral law, because they were already afraid of the majority of Budapesters. By now, however, they would be able to take away the power of the majority in the capital by administrative means only if the election itself was abolished. And if we've heard correctly, opposition representatives after a successful pre-election [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What was the success of the primary?]] Some members of the government have already thought about this, taking the lead with the Prime Minister. Between 20 and 26 June, despite the rising heat, nearly 70,000 residents of Budapest made use of the opportunity offered by opposition parties. They went out onto the street, and you chose the person who led them to create a better Budapest for themselves and for the people who live here. For the first time, Budapest had the opportunity to try out a democratic instrument already used in Europe, and they have already performed better and more successfully at first, such as in Italy, where they have already used the institution of the pre-election. Please, this also proves that there is and there is a need for democracy in Hungary. It also proves that Budapesters want to kick the Fidesz off their own, because they know that democracy never goes without saying, that it has to be fought over and over again, and there are generations who have several times. And the fact that you've been attacking Gergely Christmas sexually and aggressively since then is merely proof that you're insecure. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's exactly what we do!]] They were uncertain in themselves, they were uncertain in István Tarlós, but István Tarlós himself wrote today that if Gergely Christmas wins, he will leave the field out of kindness. But the more they attack Gergely Christmas, or even attack the entire opposition, or any opposition leader among us, the more determined and united we are to do our job, because the majority who want to change brought democracy back in the pre-election, and in the October municipal elections, they will take Budapest back, because the change begins in Hungary in Budapest.
u2019-07-08-6	I give the floor to Secretary Csaba Dömötör. Here you go.
u2019-07-08-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and This is not the first time that Parliament has been seen as the scene of left-wing power pushing, especially with regard to the riots in the capital, and when they do so, they are constantly dragging down Budapest. If I understand correctly, you say that Bucharest is already ahead of us; I suggest you visit the Romanian capital. As far as Budapest is concerned, I would like to give you some results that are not just related to the government, not just to the city leadership, but to all the people in Budapest. Let us start by saying that Budapest is now one of the safest cities in Europe. We do not claim this, but an analysis by the British Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 2017, and I think that this is a great value, because, for example, the situation is completely different with regard to the cities where immigration was allowed. If it were up to you, that wouldn't be the case. We have achieved many results that can be felt in different areas of life in everyday life. For example, transport: tram route 1 is extended, bus park is renewed, metro line 3 is renewed, unlike you, this government has completed its 4th metro investment. I realize you're putting the hot summer weather on the government's shoulders, but I'd like to tell you one thing. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: No climate!]] During the current government and the current Budapest city leadership, there are more air-conditioned buses and means of transport than during your governance and city management. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Climate change!]] In addition to the above, many public spaces have been renewed, such as Kossuth Square, Széll Kálmán Square or Ferenciek Square, which represents a noticeable change for tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Heat waves!]] Cultural spaces have been renewed, including the Erkel Theatre, the Liszt Academy, but the Opera House and the Eiffel Hall are renewed. It is also a priority, honourable Member, to make the city more livable, which is why new sports facilities are being created, which is why 19 public parks have been renewed. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Butterfly Park.]] and that is why the programme "Liget Budapest" is moving forward, which you would otherwise prevent. As for greening, make sure that István Tarlós planted more trees than Gergely Christmas, and that is also true of Zuglo. By the way, your candidate will start with the support of parties who have almost turned Budapest into a failure. The government had to take over 217 billion dollars of debt from the capital, and we hadn't even talked about 270 billion of metro 4's 450 billion cost. And if you're wondering how Gergely Christmas would lead the capital, you should go to Zuglo, where there's a feat in the wrong sense that you have to pay a lot of money for parking, but it's a loss for the district. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Shame!]] We'll ask you and classics how it's done. And all of this is said by your candidate that decisions were made behind his back, while his signature is on the contracts. [[An uproar in the ranks of the Fidesz.]] It also shows that with Gergely Christmas, Miklós Hagyó, the era of Ferenc Gyurcsány would come back, and the entire period of the Demszky era, a period that we thought had been closed for a long time. [[Interviews from the lines of MSZP and Dialogue: Bence Tordai: You are in great trouble if you are holding on to this!]] And there's one more thing that proves that, and that's their tax-raise plans. You are campaigning louder and louder with the PM for the property tax, which is said to hit the so-called rich, but we know very well that when you had to vote on it, you had a limit of 30 million [[Bence of Turda: 500 million!]] [[Bence of Turda: 500 million!]] which means that, according to current conditions, it would affect most of the apartments in Budapest. (Bence of Turda: 500 million!) , and your advisor has also explained why you want this, and I quote: What is missing from the domestic tax system is the central property tax, currently neither property nor movable property is subject to tax to the central budget and now pay attention! And the domestic tax system could carry the central property tax. That's why you want a property tax. [[An uproar in the lines of MSZP and LMP. Bence of Turda: 500 million!]] We don't want any of this, and I'm sure the people of Budapest don't either. So if anyone, honourable Member, wants to take the apartments, it's the left. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Like the Castle! Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] Your candidate, by the way, has given an extensive interview today, in which he confesses not only to being a drifting character, but also to regard politics as a source of livelihood. He said he thought in 2010 that they were doing a good campaign with LMP, and with this reference he lived and made a lot of money as a campaign advisor. He didn't, but he's been consistent in politics ever since. I wouldn't add too much to that, except that he first gave advice to the SZDSZ, then worked for the Gyurcsány government, then went to the LMP, then started with the Együtt-PM, and the Joint Departed to seek political asylum with the Socialists. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: And he will become mayor! The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This is rather the path of a politician who always travels with current currents, but not according to his own will, which is why he is unfit. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-08-8	I would like to draw the attention of Congressman Bence Tordai that his fellow Member behind him has already used up five minutes of your time, so please hold back, if I may. It's time for Congressman Tamás Sneider, from Jobbik. Here you go.
u2019-07-08-9	Mr President, Dear House, In many cases, the history of Poland and Hungary is almost identical, and it has often been worth learning from each other throughout history. That's how it is now, in our present day. We are in a similar situation in the European Union, and that is why it is worth paying attention to our Polish brothers and sisters. At the time of the change of regime, the Poles considered Hungary a role model, since we were far ahead of them economically. However, 30 years have passed, and in the last 10 years, we have been well overtaken by our Polish brothers, and now it is worth watching them, what measures we are taking, what social changes are happening in Poland. [[11.30]] In Poland, the situation between migrant workers and the Polish people is becoming increasingly tense. Many, more than one and a half million migrant workers, mainly of Ukrainian origin, came to the country and took the place of young people who emigrated from Poland to 1.7 million. As a patriotic act, the Polish Government has taken the very serious step by announcing that it will abolish personal income tax, the 18 percent tax on young people under 26, which will result in an increase in the wages of Polish young people by 18 percent from one moment to the next. He does this because he wants the Polish families not to be torn apart, so that the pain of Polish youths, the pain of Polish people, would not be fulfilled in Western Europe because of the lack of family. Well, we think that Jobbik thinks it's a very exemplary step. With this, we must draw parallel to the current Orbán government's measures in this regard. While in Poland this cost, or this expenditure or revenue shortage, amounts to 186 billion forints, the government decided to spend 100 million forints a few years ago to bring young people home to Hungary. We are convinced that a truly national government will do everything in its power to bring home the emigrated Hungarians, to reduce their pain, so that families do not fall apart, and a truly national head of government does not call this pain an adventure, this difficulty, which is the world of everyday life for hundreds of thousands of people. We demand that you take similar decisive action within the framework of the Polish Government's actions and along with knowledge of it. Do not continue to accept hundreds of thousands of migrant workers in a mass. Today, Hungary is an Indian, Pakistani, Mongolian, Chinese, Ukrainian, and we can go on to see how many nations are coming to work here, in light of the fact that you were the ones who posted the entire country to migrants three years ago that you could not take the work of the Hungarian people. I add that they could not write or read Hungarian, while this was posted in Hungarian. This was promised to the Hungarian population three years ago. Three years passed, and with massive state propaganda and state support as in Ukraine, where the Hungarian state spent 500 million forints on advertising only to come here from Internal Ukraine, the workers are now doing exactly the opposite of what they told Hungarian people three years ago. We demand that you take similar steps. Let it also be in Hungary that the personal income tax of young people under the age of 26 is released, thus keeping them at home. And don't spend 5 million forints each on migrant workers for the reception of a migrant worker, but use this money to build apartments for young people so that they don't have to go abroad. If so many migrant workers are arriving in Hungary as in Tiszaújváros, where, next to the thousand migrant workers, 3 thousand more Turkish migrant workers are arriving in the city of 15 000 in the days, if this is already happening, then we do demand that the foreign police tax be introduced on companies that specifically employ the masses of migrant workers, and from this tax, as long as the number of migrant workers is so high in Hungary and many settlements, in these settlements, the foreign police guard is set up to maintain discipline. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] There have been reports every day that tensions between migrant workers and the local population are increasing not only in Poland, but also in Hungary. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-07-08-10	Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-07-08-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Congresswoman and Lords! Mr. Vice President, Once again, listening to your speech, I am convinced that you talk about our fellow countrymen working abroad in two ways, and I think both approaches are very wrong. One of the approaches you continue to use is the vision of national death that the country will be empty. [[Tamás Sneider: Well, there is something about it, with three and a half million Hungarians in less than 30 years in the Carpathian Basin.]] The other approach is to look down on Hungarians who try to be lucky abroad. We think that these Hungarians deserve all the credit because they had the courage to start working abroad. You talk about this as if it were a bad thing, even though you deserve all the respect of working abroad under difficult circumstances. Moreover, Hungary was always strong when the freedom to travel and work was guaranteed. We believe that this is the most important EU achievement, that we can travel freely, and if we think we can work freely abroad. It seems that you are now attacking this very, very important freedom mission, on a recurring basis. I don't think that's the right approach again. By the way, if we are talking about numbers, so we are going back to the national death-vision you've been skimming up, then it seems that the numbers do not support your approach, because if you look at emigration statistics from the Central and Eastern European region, you will see that the numbers are the lowest in Hungary. About 5 percent of the Hungarian population is still working abroad. There are countries, there are many countries where they are over 10 percent, but for example Romania or Poland you mentioned is around 20 percent. We believe that the country's economic performance, if given, if appropriate, if the country goes well, will also offer young people a perspective, and that young people will think of staying home as a major alternative and not just thinking about emigration. I believe that the country's economic performance in recent years has led the process in this direction. For many years now there has been an economic growth of around 5 per cent, a real wage rise of around 10 per cent for years, a stable budget for years, a stable inflation environment for everyone, and the figures confirm that young people are seeing perspectives again in Hungary. Last year was the first year, where more young people born in Hungary came back on the basis of KSH data than they had left the country, so the net migration balance is now positive. This is also related to the migration crisis. I would just like to point out that it is not a coincidence that Western European countries are panicking to recruit outside Europe, because as the entire Central and Eastern European region returns and closes in economic terms, so young people and the labour force are slowing down, stopping and turning back. So ask, for example, the German employers, the employers' association, why we believe that the German government supports the migration strategy based on the policy of completely unreasonable open gates. Because they're afraid that young people from Central and Eastern Europe will come back. We are happy about this, but this is still a fact in sociology, statistics and economic policy. On the other hand, you may be concerned about young people, but you are still involved in a party alliance who, when running the country, had 30 percent unemployment among young people in Hungary. [[Peter Cseresnyés: That's right!]] Unemployment was 30 percent before 2010! [[Tamás Sneider: And now working abroad is 30 percent.]] There was an economic growth of less than 6.6 percent. What perspective is that for young people? So I would like to ask you, Mr Vice-President, if you are seriously concerned about young Hungarians, then ask your allies. [[Tamás Sneider: You've been ruling for nine years!]] so that, and perhaps then, we should not have an alliance with them, but rather in Parliament, we should support government measures which mean that young people stay in Hungary, both the interest-free loan, the graduate, the successful language exam fee for young people under the age of 30 [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We will also reimburse the cost of the Kresz exam, and I would be able to bring in a series of measures that have been voted on by both the government side and not by your political party. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-07-08-12	On behalf of the LMP, Congressman Csárdi asked for the floor. Here you go. [[11.40]]
u2019-07-08-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Between 2004 and 2010, more than 1.5 million consumer foreign exchange loans were concluded. At present, according to the data of the Ministry of Justice, 900,000 enforcement procedures are under way, and at the end of these enforcement procedures, in the vast majority of cases, eviction awaits those abandoned consumers, those who have been cheated by the Hungarian banking system. I think that there can be no debate between us on the question of the fact that millions of Hungarians cheated by foreign currency loans can no longer wait. Why am I talking about millions? We can clearly see that if there are one and a half million consumer contracts, it affects at least one million families directly, where it can be said that there are virtually three or four million of our fellow citizens affected by this problem on a meaty basis, seven days a week. However, we know that this situation did not arise on its own and that the liability of debtors in this situation is negligible. C-51/17. The European Court of Justice has made clear the reasons for the European Court of Justice judgment. It's 93/13. Article 4 (2) of the Directive requires financial institutions to provide sufficient information to borrowers so that the latter can take informed and informed and informed decisions. In this respect, this requirement implies that the conditions relating to exchange rate risk must be understandable to the consumer not only from a formal and grammatical point of view, but also for the specific content, in the sense that the generally informed, reasonable and prudent average consumer should not only be able to recognise that the national currency may be devalued in relation to the currency in which the loan is registered but should also be able to assess the potential economic consequences of such condition on his financial obligation. Dear Secretary of State, I think that we have both seen hundreds or more contracts on foreign exchange credit contracts, and I must admit that I cannot conclude a contract where this European court condition would have been met. If we do not correct this issue, if we do not provide tangible and real help to those in need, then there will be a social gap in this country that will, on the one hand, seriously violate the principle of justice, because I think that the truth is due to the cheated foreign exchange lenders, on the other hand, the economy will suffer very harshly. We know precisely that families, businesses who are victims of this foreign exchange credit crisis could be active and useful economic players in this country, but today they clearly need to be peripheral because the legislative steps that were the end of the loan on the one hand, and the forinting on the other, did not provide them any real and meaningful help. I think that the government should hear that those foreign currency lenders who are in need of no fault of their own, these millions of deceived people and families, expect the government, the Hungarian legislature, to finally receive real and meaningful help. We cannot forget one third of society, three or four million people, and I believe that this responsibility must be shared by you in the government and we here on the opposition side. Thank you very much.
u2019-07-08-14	Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-07-08-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to break up what you have to say, because you mentioned very distant, though touching, areas, as if there were numerical correlations between these things. First of all, the enforcement procedural numbers you quoted here, from the parking ticket to the court fines, include all corporate cases and everything else. Washing this with the issue of foreign exchange credentials is a very strong slide, so starting a speech is questioning the seriousness of what was said later. But if we are talking about foreign exchange lenders, we can say that today there are no foreign currency crediters in Hungary, precisely because this Parliament and this government have forinted foreign currency loans in respect of all those who do not receive income in foreign currency. I can agree with Mr President that, indeed, the period before 2010 when the share of foreign exchange loans within loans increased from 1 per cent to 70 per cent represents serious regulatory, legislative, legislative shortcomings and errors. This was mentioned several times then, and was corrected after 2010. Think about the institution of the end-payments, the asset management institution for the weakest, the price barrier, the forinting, the accountability of the banks, which gave back over a thousand billion forints to the debtors! They all indicate that neither the government nor the parliament were idly watching this set of problems, which after 2010, after the crisis, came upon us, and where we really had to help more than a million currency-installed people, and I report that this was largely successful. Of course, there are cases, regardless of whether a family is indebted in foreign currency before or in HUF, at which interest rate, there may be individual circumstances, cases that may result in a situation in a normal functioning economy in a normally functioning society that is unable to repay their debts, and may even reach the implementation procedure for such a case. That is why I mentioned, for example, the case of the asset manager, where we managed to get 36,000 families out of this situation. By the way, the LMP did not vote for this, so it may have been necessary to discuss this with its fellow parties. So practically on this road today almost all of it, so almost 30,000 families can buy these apartments back under very preferential conditions and solve their problems. The issue of forinting, as I have said, is once again that you have not voted for it, and of course this means that you are not sure that you are being thoughtful and conceptual about these issues. I was very pleased to hear you mention the judgment of the Court of Luxembourg, as it also indicates that it was open to the courts, and the way is still open to the present day, that in individual cases, indeed, if you see a contract that does not comply with the legal requirements, the courts may review this. We are not in the position of the Hungarian Parliament, we were not there in the case, we cannot investigate whether it was actually there, at the contract who said what, how it was recorded, who signed what. The courts can do this and do their job; they can, obviously, in the legislative framework, find a remedy for individual grievances. Similarly, in enforcement proceedings, courts have the power to investigate whether these procedures are indeed justified, whether they are legally conducted. So what I want to say is that in Hungary, the legal system, the authorities, the functioning of the courts are sufficient to remedy these matters. It can be seen that there are also discussions in the Curia that are trying to give the support of judicial practice that the courts can consider and make the right decisions in individual cases, but the Hungarian Parliament can establish general rules that apply to everyone. So it is very difficult to resolve individual cases that can actually happen. We have the task, and I believe that we are in line with this, that the legal environment that we maintain, what we are shaping, what we have created, gives the courts sufficient leeway to provide adequate redress in cases where, in fact, it is assumed, not because of individual abilities, not because of a financial situation, but because of the error of the information or other reasons, the debtor has made an inadequate decision. I hope that the courts will be able to fulfil this task. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[11.50]]
u2019-07-08-16	To speak before the next agenda, I give the floor to Ferenc Gyurcsány, head of the DK Group.
u2019-07-08-17	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and Gentlemen, At least a long and important debate has been concluded with the election of the new leaders of the European Union and the election of future Commission leaders next week. This debate was about what kind of world the peoples of Europe want. In the past, a European Union election attracted so many voters and called me to the ballot box. The reason is pretty much clear and obvious. First, there has been a very clear, open debate in the history of the Union: do we want the nations of Europe to come closer to each other, to solve more and more issues together, to find a stronger Europe and to create stronger nation states, or to see threats and threats in this cooperation? The characters are well known. The Hungarian Prime Minister played an important and audible role in this debate. He said that instead of European cooperation, he wanted a stronger nation state, that cooperation between European capitals and Brussels was more of a threat, and that he named about one of the various challenges facing Europe - otherwise this is an existing challenge, this is the refugee issue. The debate is over. The vast majority of Europe's peoples do not give this interpretation, they have kept Europe for the continent of freedom, they said that they do not want to be afraid, they do not want to keep distance from each other, but they are looking for cooperation. They said that it is not true that Europe is threatened primarily by the refugee pressure that has actually calmed down, but by a number of other issues: there are tens and hundreds of millions of people in Europe in perpetuity, and there is a climate challenge that many, including more and more young people, say is the real problem, and we want to leave a viable world for our own grandchildren, and they say that there is no demand for the kind of political Christianity that many, including the Hungarian Prime Minister, refer to. They want a secular Europe, where faith is the most sacred private matter, and if we refer to Christian traditions in politics, then most of all mercy, openness, turning to the fallen, yes; but not the state breaking a wand over the heads of its citizens in matters of faith, and telling them what faith they believe to live by. I think that's okay. If we look through the elected leaders, we can see that only leaders have been elected so far, whose political activities and sentences you are well aware of are highly opposed to the thoughts of the Hungarian Prime Minister. I see this as a decisive political victory on this side and defeat on the side of the Prime Minister and his party. We'll have to add something to that. Many of them welcome the fall of so - called top candidates by the pro-government majority. I think this is of great concern; it is not because one or another candidate must be supported. Yeah, it could be a review. But we also told the Hungarian people and the European people that the leaders of Europe will be those whose party family will receive the most support. I think those who are celebrating are deceiving the people of Europe. It's not okay. You can't campaign for months, offer people a leader, and end up saying, "I'm sorry, they won't be them." We must express our opposition and rejection in this regard, because Europe will only win if it respects its citizens, and this is not the way that... [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2019-07-08-18	State Secretary Csaba Dömötör will answer. Here you go.
u2019-07-08-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, In the European election campaign, the government made it clear that it believes in a Europe of nations, a Europe of nation states, and thus received the majority of the votes. We know that there is a great debate throughout Europe about what you have been talking about, but we also know what Hungarian citizens and Hungarian voters want, and this message is also clear. We agree oddly on one thing: we also believe that a phase has ended, because there was a long phase in Hungarian public life when you went into a relatively background, and although you pulled the strings from the background, it rarely came out of the political sense of sunlight. This ends now, because the EP election has clearly launched an attack to take in the entire left, or even to look at Jobbik. [[Gergely Arató intervenes]] And the thing is, there is no instrument that is not being used in this fight. It's enough to think about how Gergely Christmas was stabbed in the back, who can still trust you. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Don't worry about it. Worry about something else.]] It's not a life insurance policy. And when you return, the fact is that it is not only a matter of the left and of the opposition, because when Ferenc Gyurcsány returns, the anti-Hungarian policy will also return. Let's see what they did in Brussels last week. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: What have you done? What did they do?]] He didn't say anything about it. Exactly what we warned you about in the campaign: Hungarians were drilled on behalf of interest groups in Brussels. What was presented is a net anti-Hungarian policy. When we first heard that your wife, Klára Dobrev, had been instigated to prevent government representatives from choosing certain positions, we thought that this was a political bluff, a kind of publicity antagonism and a kind of prolonged complication of the election campaign. But no! But no! Your wife and the entire delegation voted against Lívia Járóka becoming Vice-President of the European Parliament. [[Interjection in the ranks of Fidesz: Shame!]] In doing so, they broke the agreement between the factions, broke the custom of decades and tried to override the will of the electorate, because in the European Parliament, as in this Parliament, the parties generally strive to reflect the results of the elections in the composition of the leaders. You said no to that, too. The majority of Hungarians voted for Fidesz, and you ignored it. So much for how democratic you are. [[Gergely Arató: He respected the voters so much, he didn't even sign in that he was fidesz!]]
u2019-07-08-20	Mr. Harvester, control yourself, please. [[Interventions in the lines of DK and MSZP.]]
u2019-07-08-21	In addition, the remasked SZDSZ also joined this shame-lined campaign, and the momentists also used their new EP place to campaign against the Hungarians, and that is not all, because they were also happy with the Romanian politician Cioloș, who is famous for his anti-Hungarian actions. So the thing is that the anti-Hungarian Romanian politician is voted group leader, but the Hungarian politician, Lívia Járóka, was openly campaigned against. [[Interjection in the ranks of Fidesz: Shame!]] How insensitive is that? How big is it? Dear Chief of Staff, If we look at your statements correctly, you would continue to pursue a similar policy. At the moment, the election of committee officials has been selected and they want to campaign against the Hungarian candidates. [[Gergely Arató: Against the Fidesz candidates!]] Behind the scenes, they've probably already started to hustle. Honourable DK Members, if the word here is even justified [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Mr. President, please, how is that all right?!]] What they are doing is not just part of the usual internal political position and elbowing; what they are doing is a conscious weakening of the Hungarian representativeship in Brussels, a sabotage against Hungary. [[Zsolt Gréczy: This responsible patriotic policy...]] I wish the government debt had been drilled like the Hungarian interests and Hungarian candidates. [[Interview in DK's ranks.]] They do not have a single substantive proposal on how to fight for our country on the international stage, so there is no thought, so the minework and the shameless standing behind those who regularly go to Hungary with two feet. Dear Chief of Staff, This also means that what we have seen from you in Brussels in recent years seems to be a little mishka compared to what will come next. [[Gergely Harvesting: You can be sure of that!]] You've been campaigning for the united states of Europe for a reason, I see that this country, our country, doesn't mean much to you anymore. [[Gergely Harvester: Shame on you!]] 'Cause if he did, they wouldn't be working against him on a system-wide basis. The last few years have been spent attacking Hungarians across the border, now there are so many variables that they are attacking Hungarians from across the border. Don't think we're gonna let this go. Soul on it! [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] But as far as we're concerned, we're not gonna let eye-shooters and liars teach us about Europeanism and democracy. Thank you for listening. [[Zsolt Gréczy: I would teach you anything at any time... applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] [[12.00]]
u2019-07-08-22	The KDNP representative, Lőrinc Nacsa, applied for a pre-meeting speech. I give you the floor, please. [[A statement from the opposition: Let's hear it!]]
u2019-07-08-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The four important measures of the family protection action came into force on 1 July: in response to the needs and requests of the families, baby shower support started, car shopping support for large family members, an extended version of mortgage lending and an extended interest-supported CSOK loan. There is great interest in the past week, which means that grants can reach their destination, provide real help, which has always been our goal. For Fidesz-KDNP, the family is the first, of course, to be governed by the concept of the family under our Fundamental Law, not by the noise of the weekend, not by provocations. We have worked and worked with all our might in recent years to ensure that Hungarian families are strong, that children can be born, and that the commitment of more than one child does not mean automatic poverty, as was unfortunately the case during the period of government between 2002 and 2010. During Gyurcsány's time, families with children were hit mainly by austerity measures: they reduced the duration of the child, they took away tax breaks from the families, they abolished home-building programs, they closed nursery schools and kindergartens. Dear Parliament, After the family-friendly turn in 2010, the Hungarian families could delete the term "suppression" from their home dictionary, since the family tax system, its extension, the launch of home-building programs, the ged extra, the free children's meals and textbook, as well as the family protection action that has just started and the village CSOK are all in the interests of Hungarian families. The foundation of the current family protection measures took place in the national consultation last autumn, which is why it can definitely be said that the programme launched last week was implemented at the request of Hungarian people and families. Of course, some people were not interested in the opinions of the people, the Deputy Socialist Group Leader, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, for example, ripped apart the consultation sheet, thus tearing up the opinions of nearly one and a half million people. We are not surprised that a candidate of the Gyurcsány Party has clearly described that he believes that support for immigrants is more important than that of Hungarian families. During the debate on the family protection action plan here in Parliament, when it was supposed to talk about the support of the Hungarian families, the opposition did almost nothing but accuse and reproach the government. For example, Andrea Varga-Damm performed the right hand along with the following words: [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] to say: misrepresentation, distorted conditions [[Dr. Varga Damm Andrea: Go ahead.]] Violations and militaristic expressions. [[Dr. Varga Damm Andrea intervenes.]] He was talking about the need for rest in the country. Zsolt Gréczy, a colleague of Ferenc Gyurcsány, who used to lie day and night, also found it surprising to say that he felt that calmer conditions were needed in the country. Honourable Member, there was no peace for families in this country when you allowed paramilitary organizations to march with intimidating intent when you ordered a cavalry attack on peaceful protestors, and when the Prime Minister found out that he was lying in everything and falsifying budget numbers, or when a million people were unemployed, or when hundreds of thousands were taken into foreign currency loans. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: criminal record!]] Well, there was no peace in this country. And when a decision had to be made on the family protection action plan, and there were many opportunities before the opposition here in Parliament to improve its anti-familyism in the past, the Dialogue did not vote in favour of the family protection action, and the Gyurcsány Party expressly rejected it. The two anti-family parties said to the Hungarian families: you can't count on us, we know you asked for this, but we don't care. That is why Ferenc Gyurcsány pulled his card out of the room and turned his back on the Hungarian families again. The four points of the Family Protection Action Plan have therefore already been in place, and the two other points of the Action Plan are that mothers with at least four children will be exempt from personal income tax and grandparents will enter into force in January 2020. The cradle development is taking place, we are constantly expanding the seats until we reach the target of 70,000, so that every family that needs it can place their child. This is why it is important that next year's budget, the budget of the families, has started, and as a result of the joint work of the Hungarian people, Hungarian businesses and the government, we have the necessary resources, which will be available to support the Hungarian families in an unprecedented order of magnitude, worth more than HUF 2220 billion. I hope that all parties will support the budget for family and tax cuts in the interests of Hungarian families. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea applauds.]]
u2019-07-08-24	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2019-07-08-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, the child is the first for the government, and unfortunately this is not the case for all opposition parties, because if the party of the opposition, Ferenc Gyurcsány, had been in the party of the intellectual leader, no measure would have entered into force from 1 July, and no measure would have entered into force from 1 January to assist the Hungarian families. If Gergely Christmas's party, the Dialogue, had been to open the possibility of funding to thousands and tens of thousands of families from 1 July, it would not have been open to any family, they would not have supported these forms of support, neither Ferenc Gyurcsány and his party, nor Gergely Christmas and his party. [[Gergely Harvesting: Because we would have done better!]] Through Fidesz and KDNP, however, through Fidesz and KDNP support, these legislative amendments have been made and these forms of support have been opened. And we have to say that these forms of support have met the expectations of families in full, because there was a huge interest and a huge rush towards banks and government windows. If you look at car shopping subsidies, two and a half thousand people have submitted their applications in five days. If you look at the baby shower support, fortunately, last week the number of baby shower requests received has increased by far over half a thousand. On average, two thousand people showed up in government windows every day to ask about different forms of support or to ask for a social security certificate in the government window. In one of the commercial banks, the number of baby shower subsidies already exceeded 100. We can also see from the first week's experience that the banks will assess the applications in three days before the available time, so there was a case in practice that someone went to the government window on Monday and requested his social security confirmation, received it on Tuesday, took it to the bank on Tuesday and claimed the aid, and by Friday he had the HUF 10 million in his account. This is the support, this is the surplus provided by the Hungarian government to young Hungarians, Hungarian families, Hungarian married couples and young Hungarians who want to have children, and the opposition is also obstructing and twitching in Parliament; not to mention that some bureaucrats in Brussels have tried to express various concerns about baby shower support even before the introduction. As I said, it is a variety of forms of support that have now entered into force from 1 July, and the government will provide HUF 50 billion in this year's budget law and HUF 160 billion in next year's budget will be available for the family protection action plan. We spend these funds not on migration, but on Hungarian families, however much more politicians or opposition representatives in Brussels have not liked this in recent years. Baby shower support, as well as well-known, is a HUF 10 million grant, and if children arrive in such a way, it can also become a totally non-refundable grant. This can be requested even later by 31 July, and every 30 June is available after midnight, so that every 1 July is for children born from zero o'clock. At the birth of the second child, 30 percent and at the birth of the third child, the state fully accepts this amount. The maximum amount of car shopping support is 2.5 million HUF, which can be claimed for three children, but this can amount to half the price of the new car purchased for seven people. The home creation program is also expanding, the CSOK loan can now be used to buy a used apartment, and the village CSOK started in 2500 settlements. It was also an important change that came into force from 1 July when the second child was born, the government took over 4 million forints of the family's mortgage debt, and then the government took over 1 million forints of the family's burden for other children as well. We would like to thank everyone who works in the district offices, the Treasury, and has helped families start applying for this form of support last week. We are afraid that the first figures show in a positive sense that they will continue to be under heavy strain. [[12.10]] From 1 January, mother's income tax exemption and the introduction of a parent's child are coming. We also want to strengthen Hungarian families [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And in Europe, in their defense, to take on all conflicts. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-07-08-26	The speech before today's last agenda will be given by Mr Máté Kocsis, Head of the Group, on behalf of the Fidesz; please.
u2019-07-08-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Last week, the debates on the position of the leaders of the European Union ended, and this was an important week, as it determines the European existence of the years ahead, and also the Hungarians. Listening to Mr Gyurcsány's speech, it is clear that not only the government side has dealt with this issue, but also he himself. I would like to draw your attention to three important points in my speech before the agenda with the same content. One is that my fellow Group Leader Gyurcsány has historically acknowledged that immigration is an existing challenge. If we believe that, and we don't put it in the realm of political infidelity or his anti-nationalism, then the question arises why he has denied it so far and why he wanted to break down a fence. Another interesting statement was made by him in the logic of defeat or victory. My colleague, the leader of the faction, claimed that the opposition was a victory, a defeat for the ruling parties. You forgot to discuss this with your friend, Mr Martin Schulz, who said that developments in European debates are the victory of Orbán and the V4 in a literal quote. And it is interesting that you are talking about the two positions, the two positions that rival each other, that, in contrast to the Europe of nations, a Europe of strong nations, the cafe that you imagine you have represented, and it is still competitive for you to this day. This may be the case, but you don't have to think about it for a long time, as the voters decided on 26 May; 53 percent of the Hungarian voters voted in favour of it, indeed in favour of the clear position that he referred to, according to which Europe's future rests on strong nations and strong alliances of countries. And while we are talking about strong alliances of countries, it is safe to say, and you can be proud of, citizens in every Central European V4 country that the V4 countries have been a huge success, a victory, and it has become clear that they have become inevitable in the European Union. In this way, it is safe to say that the most successful alliance of countries is V4, which, although organised on a regional basis, has shown a European strength that has not been seen since their accession. It is closed, it is the end of the era when the old big, strong states practically give instructions to new connectors or later connectors. The V4 Group has joined forces and achieved its main objective: neither Mr Weber nor Mr Timmermans have become Presidents of the Commission. We also made it clear in the election campaign that we will not support leaders who do not respect the opinion of Hungarians and who do not want to curb immigration. We will not support leaders, and Mr Weber is one of them, who wants to be the leader and integrator of Europe, while constantly attacking or desecrating one nation, depending on its political or current interests. We have also made it clear to Mr Timmermans that, as a friend of George Soros, we do not consider him to be a good leader, nor are we qualified to lead the Union, the Commission, because there is no guarantee that he would not increase immigration but rather work to curb it. In fact, the candidate who doesn't respect European nations, who doesn't appreciate Christian values and who doesn't want to stop migration could not count on the support of Hungarians. The Juncker Commission has made many mistakes so far, allowing migrants into Europe and letting the British out of Europe. The new European leaders, the new Commission presidential candidate, are also a new opportunity for Europe. This is a chance for Europe to live. Allow me one last thought, perhaps also in response to the opposition's behaviour in the European Parliament. It has not been thirty years since the parties voted against each other in the distribution of parliamentary seats based on electoral will. It is an unwritten rule, but it has a system that rests on the will of the electorate. The seats of the European Parliament were also defined by the electorate. Any digging, any action that affects this, especially on behalf of the leader of the Democratic Coalition, Klára Dobrev, is a blow to the face and ridicule of voters. Not to mention, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Takes me on dangerous trips, because if this practice had been established in the Parliament, they would not have many positions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]]
u2019-07-08-28	State Secretary Csaba Dömötör to answer the question, please.
u2019-07-08-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, after long negotiations, a decision has been taken on the identity of the most important EU leaders. The main lesson of these negotiations is that the Visegrád countries acted in a large unity, they could not be divided, they could not be sold up and turned against each other, although many have tried. The strength of cooperation is strengthened by the fact that Visegrád leaders belong to different party families. That's the end of an era. The era when the new Member States were considered to be second-rate countries, who should not be involved in the negotiations, but should be informed of their results at most. Now that's over. And this is not happening for no reason, because the Visegrád countries are increasingly on their feet in economic terms, and they consider national independence important. It is a fund that can be built on in the future, in particular with regard to the upcoming and partly ongoing budgetary negotiations. Another important achievement is that we have managed to prevent politicians from taking the lead in the European Commission who have not shown a minimum of respect to the Eastern European countries. One of them is Frans Timmermans, who is an extremely pro-immigrationist and has landed in Hungary on several occasions. We do not expect the President of the Commission to lecture and dictate with colonial pride, but rather to forge compromises in the jungle of various interests. Neither he nor Mr Weber did, not to mention that Mr Weber did not expect the Hungarians to vote. He didn't expect it, so he didn't get it. The past years of Brussels policy, I think, will not be on the glorious pages of history. Millions of people came in with all the consequences. The British are leaving, and storm clouds have not left the skies of the economy, even if more and more are gathering again. Therefore, we view the current decisions as an important opportunity for a fresh start, and we can start with a clean slate. We do not think that we will have no quarrels with the newly elected leaders in Brussels. Everyone who stands up for their own country has debates, but we think that we now have a greater chance of a good Brussels policy than before. The 26th of May stoned what we had to do: reinvigorate Christian funds, respect for nations and stand up against immigration. This is the mandate that we are going to represent, and we are going to be asking each of the leaders for them in big cases, medium-sized cases and small cases. If compromises are needed, compromises will be made, if we have to debate and fight, then we will fight, and this is regardless of the party family that individual leaders and negotiating partners come from. There is only one thing missing in order for the Hungarian representation level to take place: that is that the opposition should finally finish the mine work. Believe me, honourable opposition representatives, it is not a course, it is still not a course to politicalize against the Hungarians in Brussels. The sooner they recognize this, the sooner they can get out of the confidence quarantine appointed by the electorate. That's what we want for you. [[Intercom from the opposition benches.]] , the elected Hungarian politicians in Brussels have been elected to whatever position they are in, and many bravery and good work. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-07-08-30	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. They have applied for a speech after today's agenda: Imre László with DK, Lajos Rig with Jobbikos and Dániel Z. Kárpát with better representatives. Dear House, I would like to inform you that a motion to waive the immunity of MP Márta Demeter LMP has been received by KSB/5259/2018/7.-I. I'm on a case against the Attorney General. I've issued this to the immunity committee to examine it. [[12.20]] Dear House, Now it is time for the credentials and the representatives to take an oath. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that because of the resignation of Members Márton Gyöngyösi and Lajos Kepli, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary has nominated Mr.Zoltán Balczó and Tibor Nunkovics from the national list. The committee for the examination of mandates held before the meeting and examined the regularity of the credentials of Mr Zoltán Balczó and Mr Tibor Nunkovics on the basis of the electoral documents. I now give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee on immunity, who will give the result of the examination of the mandate in accordance with the specific rules of the House 9. He shall report to the Parliament in accordance with paragraph 2 of Section 2.
u2019-07-08-31	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, In addition to what the President said, I can say to the House that the National Election Committee made its decision on the 2nd of July: Márton Gyöngyösi's vacant mandate was issued to MEP Zoltán György Balczó, Dr. Lajos Kepli, and in a subsequent decision to Mr Tibor Nunkovics. The decisions of the National Election Committee were final on 5 July at 4 p.m. On 8 July, the National Election Committee handed over the credentials to the two Members. These were obviously submitted to the immunity committee, so we were able to negotiate before the meeting today. Having examined the documents submitted, the Committee has decided unanimously at today's committee meeting on the basis of the fact that the Members have communicated, which is that there is no conflict of interest with them: it proposes to the Parliament that the House confirms the mandate of Members of Parliament Zoltán Balczó György and Tibor Nunkovics. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-07-08-32	Thank you. Dear House, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a proposal amending the report on the outcome of the examination of mandates cannot be submitted. The seats shall be certified by the Parliament individually, without debate. I ask the Honourable Parliament to justify Zoltán Balczó's mandate. Please vote. [[Vote. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea is indicating that her voting machine is not working. Result appearing on the table: 151 yes, zero no, zero stay.]] In response to the Congresswoman's signal, do I find that this House is correct by 152 votes in favour? [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Yes.]] ; thank you very much, unanimously, for confirming Zoltán Balczó's mandate. Dear Parliament, We now decide on Tibor Nunkovich's mandate. I ask the Honourable Parliament to confirm the mandate of Tibor Nunkovics. Please vote. [[Vote.]] If everyone's computer worked [[There's no signal.]] then I declare that the House has unanimously confirmed Tibor Nunkovich's mandate by 154 votes in favour. Dear Parliament, Now the solemn oath of the elected representatives and the signature of the oaths. I ask Mr Zoltán Balczó and Mr Tibor Nunkovics to come to the centre of the Chamber and take their oath. I would like to ask Mr. Dezső Liberty to read the text of the oath and the Honourable Parliament to listen to it standing up. [[The people in this room stand up. Zoltán Balczó and Tibor Nunkovics step into the center of the room. Dezső gullible reads the words of the oath.]]
u2019-07-08-33	I, Zoltán Balczó/Tibor Nunkovics, pledge to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; to exercise my office as a Member of Parliament for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2019-07-08-34	The oath papers will now be signed. Dear House, I would ask Mr Attila Móring to prepare the oath papers for signature and the Members to sign them. [[It's happening. Attila Móring, who signed the oath documents, congratulates him and gives him a copy of the signed oath documents. Then Péter Jakab, then Máté Kocsis, Péter Harrach, Dr. Tamás Harangozó, Gergely Arató, Dr. László Lóránt Keresztes, Olivio Kocsis-Cake and Dr. Balázs Orbán congratulated.]] Dear Parliament, Allow me to congratulate Mr Zoltán Balczó and Mr Tibor Nunkovics on their election on behalf of the Parliament and myself and wish them success in their work. I declare that the number of Members of Parliament is 199. Dear House, President János Áder's appointment as Secretary of State... I apologize, I only automatically read the text, which does not always make Hungarian sense. So President János Áder sent a transcript of the amendment of the mandate of State Secretary to the Parliament. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the transcript of the President of the Republic.
u2019-07-08-35	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament, Budapest. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law, CXXV of 2018 on government administration. Law 202. Paragraph 2 of the Act and Article 94/2018 concerning the tasks and powers of the members of the Government Government Regulation 141. On the basis of paragraph 2 (q), on the proposal of the Prime Minister, Dr. Pacsay-Tomassich Orsolya's appointment as State Secretary shall be amended with effect from 1 July 2019 by the fact that Dr. Orsolya Pacsay-Tomassich is State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. Sincerely: János Áder
u2019-07-08-36	Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. I ask this House to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. In the absence of a committee agreement, on the basis of the motion tabled by the President, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making. I ask the Honourable National Assembly to invite the designated Cultural Committee to report to the President of the Hungarian Academy of Arts on B/6700, 2016-2017. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote. 111 yes, 40 no, 0 abstentions.]] Dear House, I'll hand over the chairmanship to Vice President Sándor Lezsák. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] [[12.30]]
u2019-07-08-37	I salute my fellow Members. Dear Parliament, It follows a decision on the personal proposal. S/6781 put forward by the President You can find out more about this on the website. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the content of the personal proposal put forward by the President.
u2019-07-08-38	, 1. 5/2018 on the establishment of committees, election of officials and members of the Parliament Parliamentary resolution hereinafter referred to as 'the Parliamentary Decision', paragraph 1 is amended as follows: Parliament elects Mr. Lajos Kepli, Jobbik, former Vice-President, Tibor Nunkovics, Jobbik, Jakab Péter, Jobbik, instead of Dr. Csaba Gyüre, Jobbik, Vice-President of the Committee. 2. Point 2 of the parliamentary decision is amended as follows: Parliament elects Dr. Csaba Gyüre, Jobbik, instead of Zoltán Balczó, Jobbik, member of the committee. 3. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
u2019-07-08-39	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, When the Speaker handed over the sitting, I did not announce the result of the vote: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 111 votes in favour, 40 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, We're about to make another decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept S/6781. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the personal proposal with 154 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on Hungary's central budget for 2020 and the final proposal for an amendment follow up. The submission was made in T/6322. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I inform the Parliament that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. The detailed discussion of the draft budget law was conducted by the sectoral committees. Report by the Committee on Budgets on the detailed debate T/632/830. I) and the reports of the committees relating to the debate T/632/821-828, /831, /832, /834-836. available on the IT network. Dear Parliament, During the hearing of the bill, the draft amending proposal of the Committee on Budgets, acting as the Legislative Committee, is T/632/838. and the summary report on the Commission's proposals for amendments to the in-depth debate, T/632/839. Available on the website. The rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets shall be the first to take the floor in the debate. I would like to remind you that, according to the provisions of the House Rules, the rapporteur of the committee, with a summary of the opinions of the negotiating committees, and the description of the minority opinion, in summary of the minority opinions expressed in writing, can speak within a total of 60 minutes of time, with 30 minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion. I give the floor to notary Lajos Szűcs, rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, within a maximum period of 30 minutes.
u2019-07-08-40	Dear House, Mr President, The draft law on the central budget for 2020 was discussed again in the spring period. In addition to the Committee on Budgets, all the Standing Committees of Parliament and the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary also discussed and held a detailed debate. I would like to present the majority opinion expressed in all committees. Each of the negotiating committees concluded that the bill complied with the resolution house rule 44. § (1) of the Act meets the requirements of the Fundamental Law, so the bill complies with the substantive and formal requirements resulting from the Fundamental Law and is in line with the legal system's unity and complies with the obligations arising from international law and European Union law. First I will give the majority opinion in the Committee on Budgets and then I will mention the negotiating committees. Opinion of the Committee on Budgets. The government's 2020 budget is sustainable growth and a family budget. The main aim is to make Hungary a family-friendly place, because the child is the first for us. For this purpose, there is more than HUF 2200 billion available to support Hungarian families next year. In 2020, 300 billion forints are available for home creation. Next year, mothers with four children will also be exempt from personal income tax. In order to help return to the world of work, 40 billion HUF will be available for nursery development purposes in the budget. We consider it important to highlight the fact that, while 76 percent of family allowances were subject-law in 2010 and only 24 percent were tied to work, work-based subsidies now prevail. This also shows that there was and is a great difference between the current government and the left-wing family policy, fortunately. It is good that, as in recent years, the zero balance on the operation of the State will continue to be realised next year, i.e. the deficit is not operating costs, but only investment and development expenditure. The sustainability of the budget is strengthened by the fact that the system of reserves is used to address unforeseen risks and to source government measures that occur during the year. A total of HUF 488 billion is available in the budget by increasing the appropriations for the National Defence Fund and extraordinary government measures, corresponding to 1 percent of the total national product. On the basis of the above, the Committee considers that the economy has a stable foundation and that the draft budget is a sound and sustainable growth trend. Opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. As usual in recent years, the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade is growing dynamically in 2020. More resources are available for the operation of the Ministry's central organisation and the foreign representation network than in 2019. The investment promotion target for the economic development goals of the portfolio will increase from HUF 50 billion to HUF 80 billion, which will help to reduce the number of large investments and the volume of investments coming to Hungary again next year. The export development activity of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade has been successful, like the promotion of investment, and in recent years the value of Hungarian exports has exceeded HUF 100 billion, i.e. EUR 10 thousand per person. This contributes significantly to the fact that Hungary is one of the most dynamically growing economies throughout the European Union. [[12.40]] Opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development. This proposal is of the utmost importance since the implementation of the family protection action plan is at the heart of the government's 2020 budget. Hungary has the highest rate of family support compared to the national total product, but further steps are needed. For this reason, the Hungarian families will have nearly HUF 224 billion higher funding in the following year. It is proposed that the government will provide more than HUF 288 billion specifically for environmental protection purposes. With the support of the village CSOK and a favourable loan facility, it provides tax-refund support to small settlements up to HUF 5 million for the construction of new residential properties, as well as for the renovation and expansion of used residential properties. Opinion of the Economic Committee. The Economic Committee welcomes the fact that the 2020 budget focuses on the family protection action plan and the economic protection action plan, with which the government focuses on supporting families and Hungarian businesses. The aim remains to reduce the tax burden on labour and on businesses and families. For this reason, next year there will be more than ever, HUF 380 billion for family tax and social contributions, first-wives' benefits, and four-year-old mothers' personal income tax exemption. It is an important change for nearly 40,000 companies that the key to small business tax, the kiva will be reduced to 12% from 1 January 2020. Thanks to government measures and market developments, the number of people employed was close to 4.5 million and the unemployment rate fell to 3.5 percent. As a result of strong labour demand, favourable processes can continue to take place in the coming period, employment growth, unemployment rate declines and wage dynamics, resulting in real earnings rising by 41 percent in 2018 compared to 2010 so that the income situation of households can be further improved. Since 2010, Hungary has regained its economic self-determination, stabilised its financial position, conducts responsible budgetary management, maintain a persistently low deficit in public finances, and set the government debt on a declining path. The government's consistent economic policy has set the Hungarian economy on a long-term growth path and has established the basis for economic performance that is substantially higher than the EU average. Opinion of the National Security Committee. The Committee noted that, thanks to the government's conscious economic planning and budgetary policy, next year's budget will also include a stable and predictable growth in our country's economy and a high level of support for families. At the same time, all economic growth is futile if the population of a country does not feel secure. On the Hungarian budget, however, we can safely say that next year's budget is also a budget for security and growth, as, in addition to achieving the best possible economic indicators, the government also pays particular attention to the creation of our daily security. This requires hard and sacrificing work not only in small settlements, but also in the entire southern border section to ensure the safety of Hungarian people. In the 2020 budget there will be nearly HUF 7.2 billion more for the operation of the police and HUF 3.6 billion more for the operation of the National Directorate for Disaster Protection. The National Security Service can also manage nearly HUF 1.1 billion from more sources. The Government of Hungary is committed to protecting the Christian culture of Europe, so the National Security Committee also considers it extremely important that the current budget allocates an appropriate amount of resources to the operation of law enforcement and defence bodies. Overall, it is therefore concluded that the budget law proposal for 2020 not only provides support for families, but also provides for the full fulfilment of the tasks of the secret services set out in the Act. In this way, the country will be able to defend its borders in the fight against illegal migration, and it will also be able to respond in time to the security risks that exist in Europe. The National Defence and Police Committee examined the bill and concluded that it complied with the House Rule 44. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. The Welfare Committee has also submitted a similar opinion to the budget. The Committee on Culture informed us about this, as well as the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and the Committee on Justice. In addition, the Committee on Agriculture reports that in recent years the agricultural budget has shown adequate and continuous stability, and hopefully it will continue in 2020. The consequence of this stability is that agriculture is the backbone of the country's economic performance. National agricultural subsidies were planned in the 2020 budget for HUF 77 billion 220 million. In addition to national agricultural subsidies and many other subsidies, the value of national subsidies in the draft budget for 2020 amounts to HUF 90.5 billion. In particular, a new appropriation has also been created to strengthen the credit guarantee scheme for agricultural enterprises, with a HUF 5 billion framework. Apart from subsidies, it is important that the budgetary background of agricultural targets, as in previous years, will be able to provide a background to the different research, defence and interest interests tasks, and the amount available for agricultural targets will increase by HUF 3 billion and HUF 149.5 million. A new appropriation was also created for agri-targets, the support for irrigation development tasks is HUF 5 billion and HUF 530 million, as well as the support of the National Irrigation Centre with HUF 300 million. I would also like to highlight the support for the farm development programme, which will rise by nearly HUF 500 million. We can see that the 2020 draft budget, compared to recent years, provides significant additional resources to Hungarian agriculture players, and is expected to continue to provide stability to the sector, especially in relation to the budgets before 2010. We can conclude that from the budgetary side, the necessary resources are available for further growth. Opinion of the Committee on National Inclusion. Next year's draft budget law supports government objectives for 2018-2022. Main aspects: identity enhancement, support for families, creation of a work-based society. The strengthening of these objectives is also ensured by the 2020 budget for Hungarians across borders. Hungary has been guaranteeing the permanent functioning and development of Hungarian institutions and organisations from abroad in its budget for many years now. One of the most important goals and concerns of Hungary's Government for many years has been to support and strengthen Hungarian families. Beyond our borders, the key to the survival of Hungarians is clearly to have as many Hungarian children as possible in a secure family environment. Without the need for completeness, I would like to highlight some items in support of national policies in the next year's budget. [[12.50]] First, I would like to mention the support of the Bethlen Gábor Fund, which supports the prosperity, material and spiritual growth of Hungarians across the border in their homeland, the preservation of their language and culture, and their versatile relations with the mother country. In the draft budget for 2020, the resources of the Bethlen Gábor Fund will rise from HUF 26,6 billion to HUF 38.9 billion next year. The increase should also be highlighted because the Bethlen Gábor Fund also included the amount allocated to support the Rákóczi Alliance in addition to the subsidies for national policy purposes. From year to year, we can find a programme in several disciplines that serves the interests of national policy. Many wallets carry a target area that promotes thinking in a united nation. The budget of the agricultural portfolio will continue to provide a framework for supporting cross-border agricultural and rural development tasks. The EMMI has allocated funds to support cultural and public education tasks across borders to the same extent as in the previous year, with a total of HUF 334 million and special attention being paid to funding cross-border higher education tasks. This spring, Csángó-Hungarian cooperation programme was sent to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. By significantly increasing support for recent years, a HUF 532 million budget was allocated to the education programme for children in Moldova. Overall, we can say of the 2020 Budget Law proposal that we have in our hands, from a national political point of view, a moderate, well-thought-out draft covering all disciplines. Opinion of the Enterprise Development Committee. Since 2010, Hungary has regained its economic self-determination, is responsible for fiscal management, keeps the general government deficit permanently low, has put the government debt on a declining path and has achieved lasting economic growth. Following this path, Hungary's draft budget law 2020 was drawn up. As every year since 2010, the government's priority is to increase employment and improve the competitiveness of Hungarian businesses. The growth potential of the Hungarian economy is strengthened by the wage increase and tax reduction agreement concluded at the end of 2016 at the initiative of the government. This is one of the most important tools in the effort to create a work-based society; it is not only a pay gap, but also an incentive to improve the efficiency of companies. As a result of the government's ambitious and determined economic policy, Hungary is one of the most dynamically growing economies throughout Europe. In order to maintain this, the government encourages increased domestic competitiveness and productivity through an economic protection action plan. Overall, it can be concluded that the 2020 budget presented by the Government is a stable and growing economy, it meets the legal requirements and serves the growth of the national economy well. Opinion of the Committee on European Affairs. During the detailed discussion, the Committee on European Affairs delivered the following opinion. The disciplined fiscal policy outlined by the bill, in particular with a public deficit of 1% of the total national product, also meets the so-called Maastricht criteria. It also underlined that the national debt-to-product ratio will continue to decrease further next year, below 66 per cent of the total national product. The total amount of EU funds will be HUF 1929 billion for Hungary next year, both through investment and structural funds and direct agricultural subsidies. Dear House, Mr President, On the basis of the summarised opinions expressed, I would ask this House to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-07-08-41	Thank you, notary Lajos Szűcs, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The minority opinions will now be presented, presented by four representatives in a total of 30 minutes' time: Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, László Varju, Krisztina Hohn and Anett Bősz. First, I give the floor to Congressman Anita Potocskanyány Kőrösi.
u2019-07-08-42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At the Committee on the Budget, we expressed minority opinions on a number of topics, and I took the liberty of presenting some of them to you before this House, during the plenary session of Parliament. I would like to say that the 2020 budget has left out complete social groups, with less support for them. This is the question of Hungarians emigrated. There have been several points in the speech on the agenda that have been said to have no such problem, but let us indicate that there is. Because these people, who have left, have left because they do not see the future here in Hungary. Yes, the family protection action plan and the economic protection action plan can be positive, but much more serious problems need to be solved. It also does not respond to the 2020 budget generation problems, the situation of pensioners. Therefore, I would like to say that the differentiated pension increase should finally be introduced, so that our retired compatriots can get more money, who may spend 28 500 forints on their daily lives. It is simply outrageous and disappointing that there is no money for these, there is not enough money for it, until there are several lines in the budget for the construction of stadiums. We also consider it important for men to retire after 40 years of employment, since there can be no discrimination between women and men. So this is also a point on which we have tabled a budget amendment, but it has not been supported by the majority of the government. There is also a very sharp contrast between rural development and agriculture. The only thing that matters to you is the 10-15 thousand families who benefit from agricultural subsidies from the land, but I beg you, there are a lot more people living in agriculture. Finally, a rural development programme should be launched to help everyone who wants to make a living in agriculture. After all, we know that the Hungarian soil has a wonderful talent, it could be used much better, but as long as you only care about that small percentage, we will not be able to move forward. On the same subject, we believe that the allocation of grants, the tendering systems should be based on local decisions, the use of these decisions and these sources of tender should be made locally. So once again, I ask that not only those 10-15 thousand families can count on you, but that every family wishing to make a living in the agricultural economy can count on you. Another topic that I would like to present is the issue of law enforcement workers. We see more and more of you are going down. This trend can only be reversed if the salary fund, which has been frozen for many years, is finally increased. Well, let's face it, I can't do it without it. The fact that, in the 2020 budget, even to pay for police overtime and to redeem it in money, zero forints was planned is simply outrageous, even though in previous years there were nearly three billion dollars on this line. We believe that it cannot be, that the police industry cannot only provide the continuous presence with freedom and leisure, so it is extremely important to give financial respect to this profession, because it is, first and foremost, the protection of the country. It is therefore very important that this should be paid to attract young people and to choose this profession as many as possible. To say one positive thing, I also said this at the Budget Committee meeting, and this is the amount planned for the government's budget lines on the subject of national policy. Of course, we agree that this HUF 100 billion is a very big support, it will go to a good place, it is very important to the Hungarians abroad. [[13.00]] But make sure that Bethlen Gábor Alapkezelő Zrt. your application system is being revised a little bit, because there are applications that do not always matter what the purpose is, but who it is given to. So that's what I wanted to give you. Of course, the Jobbik Group cannot support the 2020 budget. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-07-08-43	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman László Varju.
u2019-07-08-44	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Everything we are doing now and will now be expressed as a minority opinion should reflect the opinions expressed in the committees. I must therefore also add that in these opinions not only the Members' own convictions, but also the voice of a country in this minority opinion, the voice of a country which they can also treat as a cry for help, I would like to say first, in addition to the opinion on this budget, the 2020 budget. With the government, we had the debate, and the pro-government representatives had already made use of their votes in the committees. I have to say in summary: on behalf of the Government, Mr Banai, State Secretary, rejected all amendments which came from the opposition, and so none were accepted. I therefore believe that the last option is that, before the final vote on Friday today, MEPs will essentially think about how they want to change the situation that is essentially formed here at the government's initiative in this law, and whether they can help this situation in any way. What is needed with regard to the opinions left in the minority? I can safely say that this budget is the budget of the downsizing, the poverty of many Hungary, and the reduction of benefits. I say this because, since 2010, the proportion of welfare expenditure in terms of GDP has decreased from 31.1 percent to 24.5 percent, and the rate of social assistance has increased by 17.5 percent, and by now it is barely more than 12 percent. This is one of the main criticisms that I think can be taken into account, because they are planning expenditures that are essential for you or some of your groups, and they are refusing much greater support for families. I am also saying this because you are talking about the fact that the support of families, within all expenditures, has fallen to two thirds of the family's money today, after ten years, so from this point of view, I believe that you have what to account for. The whole thing, as it is, is a true reflection of the government's social policy. When you were elected, I believe that you, fellow Members, were not authorized to do so. To give an example in this regard: János Lázár said earlier in a promise to appeal to my fellow Members that he would propose the elimination of the costs of the renovation and redemption of the tomb, as regards his first speech, his first opportunity. People have been waiting for Fidesz to fulfill its promises ever since. They're waiting for what you guys have done when you collect the votes as a promise, what's going to happen. But it seems that these promises are not going to happen, but instead we have the Castle building, and we have the useless investments to which you are spending the money uncounted. It's clear that there's nothing they can't figure out in popular, taxing solutions. The main flag carrier of this remains here, although it is a minority opinion that they do not want to reduce the high value of the VAT. However, they refuse to use this revenue, and they plan to use the budget as stated in the minority opinion of the Committee on Budgets, that, in essence, the 2.8 percent increase, which freezes the pension, is what we call it, and this is how they plan to ignore the increase in wages. Let us add that if it were to be taken into account, it could reach a 7 percent pension increase or bring this opportunity with it. The simple question must be asked sooner or later: how much longer do you want to torment people? In conclusion, I can say that the 786 rejected amendments, which were rejected in cases of invalidity, home care, hospital and health renewal, have made education a loser, and have made health a loser in this case. The case of 70-80,000 people has been ignored in social support, when, for years, the same HUF 22 800 has been left unchanged. In conclusion, the Hungarians are the losers of this budget, and you are enthusiastically taxing them, and then leaving them on the side of the road with this budget. This is the experience of many Hungary in your budget policy. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the independent, LMP and DK.]]
u2019-07-08-45	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn.
u2019-07-08-46	[[The mic's not working.]] Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Minority opinion of the LMP Group...
u2019-07-08-47	Just a minute, Congresswoman. Is your card in place?
u2019-07-08-48	Yeah. Now you can hear it. Thank you again for the floor. I will present the minority opinion of the LMP Group. This budget is a scenario for the future. Less money for protecting our environment, less money for climate change, less money for education, but more money for multinationals and upper middle classes. Every year, the Fidesz government narrows down the number of people who benefit from the budget, and the number of people left on the side of the road is increasing. Next year's budget will still not face the wage crisis, the housing crisis and the climate crisis. It is still not effective in helping single - parent families, foreign exchange credentials, young people who are struggling to start a life. It does not make healthcare work and does not improve education. It doesn't create a more livable age for pensioners. It does not adequately support small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, it does not stop migration. But the budget has winners: multinational companies, large companies and banks. They barely have to pay taxes, but in return, they get uncounted state aid. The government guarantees that Hungarian workers will work on depressed wages, and then if there is a threat of labour shortages, they will receive a slave law. If that does not help, then workers imported from Eastern countries can come. The other winner of the budget is a tight circle. This year the VAT on accommodation is reduced to 5 percent, which is thanked very much by Lőrinc Mészáros, István Tiborcz and others, who acquire tourist interests around Lake Balaton. They kill nadas, they kill woods, they take out free beaches. The third winner is China and Russia, to which we favour hundreds and thousands of billions; the former receive the completely unnecessary Budapest-Belgrád railway line, the latter the funds of the Paks expansion. Instead of all this, the LMP would like to see a budget, and this is also indicated by our amendments, in which the resources of education and health are growing, and the employees of education receive regular wages, in which, in line with the threat of climate change, significant resources are available for disaster response and preparation, for the conservation of our resources, for our economy to be fully transformed and sustainable. [[13.10]] We would like to see a budget in which social solidarity and the prevention of social fragmentation are a primary objective and manifest itself in the progressive sja system, in the reduction of VAT on basic foods, in the wage increase in the social sphere, in the normal financial recognition of care such as home care. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2019-07-08-49	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Versus Anett.
u2019-07-08-50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, After the budgetary debate, my opinion and the position of the Hungarian Liberal Party have not changed substantially, either, that almost 5 percent of economic growth does not provide sufficient resources to those sectors that are most thirsty for it, and that is education, health and social sectors, and we stand by our position with the opposition's other parties that the population policy has not been taken well by this government. Although the budget for the education system exceeds this year's budget by HUF 48 billion, this means that a reduction of 0.3 percentage points will be made to the budget as a whole in relation to the budget for 2020, compared to the budget for. 19; this means that your government, as time progresses, will be less and less important to the education system, which has been suffering from financing and structural problems for many years. Although wage arrangements for health workers and civil servants are in the process, it should be added that there are nurses who are not even looking for the guaranteed minimum wage at the moment. This means that although they were subject to minimal correction by the current government, it is not a coincidence that the large scale emigration we see in health workers is the same. It is also evident that these health - care workers have become hourglasses. The profession's waistline, so the 30s and 40s, abandons the profession that they chose for no reason, because they believe that they must sacrifice more for the health of their fellowman than they originally planned, and that they can be seen from the behaviour of health workers to support this belief, despite the fact that their reputation is very low. I would ask the pro-government colleagues to deal with this in the future, because it is simply not understandable that when health workers who plan on family, I am talking primarily about nurses, who leave their jobs at times per complete hospital class and, where appropriate, move to work at a food store's cashier or even a loader, because they are already earning more money there, I think that this is more than the alarm bell on the part of the profession. The very sectors that you are proud of are the sectors that have been left out of the current economic growth, and I think that Hungary is proud of this, by the way, which have been thirsting for it for a long time. For you, the state of health of educated people and of society is not important. They say that people take on more children, but at the same time they do not pay attention to how they preserve the health of both adults and children. We have seen that emergency care has practically collapsed in several hospitals, especially among those where the injury was cumulative and is being transported in a life - threatening state, so paramedics are transporting people from one hospital to the next. Many people die because at the moment more people in this country suffer from hospital infections than people die from road accidents. I think it's a terrifying data. According to the government, pensioners are beneficiaries, but at the same time in the budgetary debate, I said that the minimum pension of 28 500 forints, in fact, leads to the misery of the masses among pensioners, and we also talked about the fact that a clearly visible social group of pensioners spends their lives in Africa's poverty level. This means that these people, these elderly people, many of whom have 40 years of service behind them, have to farm on four dollars a day. Another problem, and then I will move on to social care systems and the family protection action plan: I have repeatedly stressed that it is very bad that the family protection action plan has missed the emphasis on the needy principle. This means that it is precisely those in need who are unable to obtain large amounts of support, whether in raising homes or having children. The Polish example shows that the slaughter of the pyramid simply resulted in the poorer social groups being able to participate in a greater proportion of budgetary resources when they are planning a baby. It's hard to understand why your government doesn't want to deal with this. We talked about the inadequacy of the supply systems. At the moment 88,000 people who want to work are unable to work, because the number of cradle seats is so insufficient, that the promise of the cradle seats made by the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Finance is far from insufficient. By the way, in the budgetary debate, in the Commission's debate, I learned from the Secretary of State that the expansion of crèches is limited because the supply side of the construction industry cannot keep up with it at the moment for known reasons. I think that it is time that, where appropriate, the private sector was involved in the expansion of crèches, and that the private sector is solving what the state has been unable to do at the moment and has been unable to resolve in recent years. So, in summary, I would like to say that the quality of life of those who serve in the healthcare sector is not only poor, but also poor. It is not expected for humans to serve our patients, or even if I look at the education system, for our children, that they themselves are unable to provide their own families with their own wages. From now on, I think that we cannot talk about the budget of families, and we cannot talk about the fact that this budget is about a wide range of social groups, and that is where we first criticized this budget with opposition colleagues and on behalf of the Liberal Party itself. Therefore, I would like to say again that I cannot accept it just because of the above. Thank you for listening.
u2019-07-08-51	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We now have the first round of speakers in writing, first of all, Member Attila Gelencsér, Fidesz.
u2019-07-08-52	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, The 108-year-old Liszt Ferenc Kaposvár Music School in the downtown of Kaposvár is one of the most important institutions of the city, which could be one of the gems of the settlement. With regard to the work there, musical education and education, it is already the case, but the more than a century-old building is in an unworthy state for both the city and the school. The renovation of the school's building is incontrovertible, so I submitted an amendment to the Parliament for a HUF 100 million grant. This is important, because music education, for example, is older than the current music school, and can be traced back to more than 160 years ago in Kaposvár. True to Kodály's spirit, those who work here must be music for everyone! In addition to artistic training, they set the primary goal of teaching music to all young students. This is what determines their pedagogical activity today. With this in mind, teachers place particular emphasis on the care of our national values, our rich folk heritage and traditions, the values that are important to the civilian government and which mean nothing to Balliberal politicians. This proves that the music school in Kaposvár, during the Gyurcsány government, did not receive any support. The institution is a regular contributor to the cultural life of the city and Somogy county, students and educators perform on average 180 times a year at various events in the city, carrying out about 60 concerts each year on their own. [[13.20]] Every three years, national flute competitions and annual regional competitions are held, for which students from primary art schools are invited to play strings, wood and brass, as well as piano. For these results, it is essential that students learn on professional instruments. Dear House, In 2018, by participating in the Kodály program, the school was able to acquire new instruments worth HUF 8 million, and for nearly HUF 1.2 million it was able to renew the existing instrument park, thus helping to find talent. In the Kaposvári Liszt Ferenc Music School, more than 500 students are trained in music love, giving them the opportunity to present their acquired knowledge as many times as possible. It is important to seek out and embrace talent. The civic government has always placed great emphasis on talent management in its education policy, unlike the education principles of the Gyurcsány Cabinet, who closed schools and the rural students felt like second-class citizens. At least two charitable concerts are held each year to support the institution, various organisations or persons in need. As a result of the dedication and professionalism of educators, the school boasts many recognitions. He has been an institution of mentoring, the foundation institution of the Education Office, and has been holding honors for many years. Nevertheless, the 108-year-old building is structurally and energyally in such a poor condition that its renovation is essential for the preservation of the state. The purpose of my amendment is to provide additional resources for a general renovation. The institution sought resources to remain one of the key actors in the region's art education. With the development of the professional programs of XXI. They would be organised in an environment meeting the expectations of the century, thus contributing to boosting the cultural life of Kaposvár county-righted town. Mr President, Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-07-08-53	Thank you very much, Congressman Attila Gelencsér. When, my dear Parliament, I gave the floor to Attila Gelencsér, he looked at me in wonder, and I looked back surprised; but now I know why he was surprised, because I should have done so before him, and I will do this now: after presenting the previous, pro-government and opposition opinions, ask the author how he wished to speak. [[For signal:]] He says he doesn't want to. Then we will now take the floor requested by the nationality committee, within a five-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Félix Farkas, a Roma minority advocate.
u2019-07-08-54	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary is responsible for the implementation of Article 10/2014 on certain house rules. Parliamentary resolution 44-45. T/6322 on Hungary's 2020 budget. Detailed discussion of bill No. 1. The committee of the bill is governed by the house rules of Article 32. In examining its provisions, i.e. the whole of the bill, which were indicated by its notification pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 44 of the Rules of Procedure, it concluded that they complied with those provisions. Paragraph 1 of the Act, i.e. they fulfil the requirements of substance and form arising from the Fundamental Law. They are integrated into the legal system, comply with obligations arising from international law and EU law and the professional requirements of legislation. At its meeting on 24 June 2019, the Committee launched a detailed debate on the bill. At its meeting on 27 June, he conducted it and decided at the meeting to close the detailed debate on the bill. The Committee did not comment on the proposed amendments to the bill nor did it intend to make any further amendments. Two ministries and two ministers are responsible for the national minority policy in Hungary. It is a change from last year to the fact that, from 1 May 2019, support for Roma from the Ministry of Human Resources came under the auspices of the Ministry of Interior from the central budget. T/6322. The parts of the 13 legislative proposals concerning nationalities in Hungary have already been drawn up in accordance with this change. The bill includes HUF 768.9 million in additional funding compared to the 2019 budget for the increase of the minority pedagogue bonus, HUF 681.1 million in additional funding for all nationalities, the scholarship programme of the national minority educators for all nationalities; HUF 1 billion in support of projects for the goals of the 12 national minority communities, and HUF 360 million in additional funding for the tender support of Roma minority self-governments and civil society organisations, namely investment, renovation and tendering. In the 2020 budget, the planned HUF 1 billion HUF 640 million in additional funding to support projects for 12 national minority communities, as well as the HUF 300 million in additional support for investments, renovations and tender parts of Roma ethnic authorities and NGOs, is justified by the fact that the national authorities do not have their own revenue, so as to finance the maintenance, renovation and investment tasks of the national minority institutions, these municipalities can only rely on the State. The support needs for 2019 already amount to several billion forints at the time of the negotiation of this bill, and it is therefore justified to provide additional support to the relevant addresses of the Prime Minister's Office and the Ministry of Interior. In some institutions, such as the Ciránian and Sludge Bishop's School maintained by the National Roma Municipality, renovations need to be started immediately for further operation. The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary is therefore T/6322 on Hungary's central budget for 2020. With bill No. 46 of the House Rules of the Committee on Budgets After carrying out its proceedings pursuant to paragraph 2, it agrees and proposes that it be accepted. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-07-08-55	Thank you, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak in the time frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. Mr Attila Gelencsér has already spoken. Here comes Congressman Gábor Zombor, Fidesz.
u2019-07-08-56	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, We have also held a detailed debate in the Committee on Welfare, and we have found that the majority of the government will again take action in terms of wage increases and infrastructure development in the following year, and we are confident that the trend that has started in recent years will be undisturbed in the future and that adequate wages will be available for healthcare workers. [[13.30]] I wanted to comment on a particular matter because we talked several times about the financing of a particular group of patients, and I noticed that there was a consensus between Members, and the government supported this demand. This is about the financing of people suffering from spinal muscle atrophy. We are in a situation that is difficult to resolve, since the proposal states that a separate amount will be allocated to the financing of people under 18 years of age, and that is a great pleasure, by the way, that HUF 1.5 billion more will be allocated to the financing of rare diseases. I would like to ask because it is likely that, in the coming period, we will find out exactly what it will cost, so that if NEAK makes an additional claim on the treatment of this disease, the government will appreciate it and provide this funding. Medically, it is very difficult to accept that we can only support certain age groups and not certain age groups. I believe that I can say on behalf of several of my fellow Members that, in addition to the fact that the increase in support is a clear result and we thank you very much for this opportunity, we will be asking the government to help us with this. And, of course, I will support the adoption of the budget. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. László György Lukács applauds.]]
u2019-07-08-57	Thank you, Congressman Gábor Zombor. I now give the floor to Congressman Ferenc Koncz, Fidesz.
u2019-07-08-58	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The government's primary objective is to ensure that the State operates fully without shortage and can finance the cost of public services from operating revenues. Moreover, the achievement of a zero-percent operating deficit will be achieved by providing adequate resources for improvements that will enable jobs to increase, thus guaranteeing a further increase in GDP. The present proposal is of the utmost importance as the implementation of the family protection action plan is at the heart of the government's 2020 budget. In Europe, the highest rate of family support compared to the total national product is the highest in Hungary, however, Minister Mihály Varga considers further steps to be necessary, which is why next year nearly HUF 2228 billion will be available to support Hungarian families, which is nearly HUF 224 billion higher than this year. Compared to 2010, education will be paid by more than HUF 500 billion, healthcare by HUF 740 billion, pensions by HUF 840 billion, public finances by HUF 1455 billion, and police expenditure by double the 2010 budget by HUF 723 billion. For environmental purposes, the government provides more than HUF 288 billion. With the support of the village CSOK and a favourable loan facility, it provides tax refund support to small settlements up to HUF 5 million for the construction of new residential properties, as well as for the renovation and extension of used residential properties. In order to strengthen the competitiveness of domestic tourism, the VAT level of the commercial accommodation service is reduced from 18 percent to 5 percent. As a representative and former mayor of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, I consider it a priority to support rural municipalities. In 2020, the amount of funding that can be won will increase to HUF 753 billion instead of HUF 729 billion. According to the proposal, local authorities will be able to spend some HUF 191 billion in support of some of their public education tasks, HUF 164 billion in support of individual social and child welfare tasks, and HUF 82 billion in support of the local government's children's meals. As I said, as a representative of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, I am very pleased that the government will strengthen it by avoiding the main route 26, and in the following year it will be necessary to spend some HUF 3.5 billion on this in the 2020 budget. And as a representative of Zemplén, it is my great pleasure for the former mayor of Szerencs to begin with a preparation cost of HUF 3.5 billion on the road 37 which brings me to Tokaj-Hegyalány from Miskolc's direction with a further four-banding. The above measures are based on economic stability. The Hungarian economy is one of the most dynamically growing economies across Europe, but the Hungarian economy also faces a number of potential threats. The government aims to ensure that the growth rate of the Hungarian economy is at least 2 percentage points higher than the average growth rate in Europe. I would like to stress that achieving full employment remains a priority. The number of people employed is now nearly 4.5 million, while the unemployment rate of 3.5 percent is the lowest since the change in the system. The reason for this is that Hungary has been meeting the criteria for the budget deficit target for seven years, and the public debt is constantly falling, which is also the goal next year. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-08-59	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, MSZP.
u2019-07-08-60	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Fellow Members! The Economic Researcher prepared an analysis of Hungary, which shows very clearly what a gap exists between the poor and the rich in Hungary when it comes to health care. This is primarily shown by the fact that the poor, those in poor financial condition, cannot obtain all the health care that has been provided to those in better financial condition. Moreover, this distinction appears not only on financial but also on geographical grounds in Hungary. According to current data, more than 500,000 people in Hungary do not have access to the right basic supply. Ladies and gentlemen, Government MPs! I have a feeling that they have reduced Hungarian health care to gambling, a health lottery, which care is given according to where you live, there is a hospital vascular surgeon, there are enough women, dentists or, where appropriate, a general doctor. This is actually a matter of luck in Hungary today. This means that Hungarian women living in more modest financial conditions do not receive adequate gynaecological care during pregnancy, and the lack of women in charge is a major threat. How do you want to increase the population if you don't have enough women to help pregnant mothers? The lack of women in charge indicates that the Fidesz state is not helping Hungarian mothers, especially women who are less affluent. This is why the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party has submitted a budgetary amendment that strengthens the basic care to ensure that everyone has access to the care they receive, because the health of all Hungarian children is equally important to us. I hope you feel the same way. Thank you very much.
u2019-07-08-61	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker is Congressman Richard Hörcsik, Fidesz.
u2019-07-08-62	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In the context of next year's budget, the importance of economic stability has been repeatedly mentioned at this stage of the general and detailed debate. Well, as my fellow Member Szűcs said, for example, the Committee on European Affairs strongly felt that the government deficit, which is planned for 1 percent of GDP, would also meet the so-called Maastricht criteria, and that the public debt-to-GDP ratio would fall below 66 percent of GDP next year. [[13.40]] I stress all these facts because I believe that stability creates the opportunity to make this budget a budget for Hungarian families. It is not just a reduction in common debt or a change in the structure of debt, but, more importantly, my fellow Members, families are growing and we are in favour of having children. Ladies and gentlemen, In this debate, I would briefly like to draw the attention of the Secretary of State and my fellow Members to the amendment of the Economic Committee. As is known, the revenue from the tourism development contribution should only be devoted to tourism development in the tourism development target. It makes it easier to achieve this effectively, I think, this proposal is that, in the case of revenue exceeding the appropriations, the amount of the tourism development target is so to say automatically increased, which we hope will significantly help the development of tourism, which is very much needed, and which is of great importance for Hungary, but my primary constituency, Abaúj and Zemplén. I am convinced that this could boost the tourism development of both the Abaúj and Zemplén region, which has started for God over the past few years. In view of the above, I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the adoption of the bill and the amendment proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-08-63	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, MP Jobbik, will speak.
u2019-07-08-64	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to say that the Hungarian future cannot be in opposition, in the same way that the truth cannot be in opposition, so as the closing chord of this debate, I must mention on behalf of the Hungarian future, the young Hungarians and the social groups that this government considers to be simple barcodes, and those who are left out of budget planning as barcodes, but not in any way from my view of the world, because every Hungarian citizen of reason wants to base the future on them, on the Hungarian young people from whom this government otherwise rightly expects the growth of the number of children's blessings, and on which I support the Government of Hungary. I would like to add that the Government of Hungary could be closer to this intention by overcoming certain forms of deviance; I do not understand why it does not do anything in this matter or almost nothing. I have to add that I am thinking of the group, which is now starting its life as a Hungarian social group, as a young, 20-year-old couple, starting a family, and, for example, with state support for housing savings, it has collected its share in a few years earlier with CSOK, and somehow, by acquiring its own property, by paying off loans, it has been able to start a family with the work of many years, and it has been able to build a future. These people are not thought of in this draft budget. Today, young Hungarians who were able to move from one to the other with state support for housing savings will not be given any opportunity instead, their lives simply missed out on budget planning. The government of Hungary is telling them to hire a CSOK. But if you do not make enough money for this, and hundreds of thousands and millions of people in Hungary do not make enough money to sign any bank with them for CSOK, then I ask the question, Mr Secretary of State, fellow Members: what future do these young people have? It can be here in Parliament, under the very massive and much dead dome, to say that the net migration balance has been reversed according to you, so to say that more people are returning to Hungary than more people are leaving. It can be supported by various statistical forgeries, because you and I both know, you know, we know that, on the one hand, there are far fewer people counted among the emigrants than there are actually emigrants, because only those statistics who have given up their social security status, have eliminated their residence, lines, handed in their papers, and are likely to have gone abroad for good. These are the only people you report to the exitors. However, among the returnees, our brothers across the border who, for reasons of necessity, should find their way here in Hungary, in the present smaller size, should be counted, even though the goal would be for everyone to thrive in their homeland in the entire Carpathian Basin. I would like to tell you that irresponsibleness and some demagogy are also waiting for an increase in the number of children's blessings from those who are taking away these life opportunities, who, in the face of rents in Budapest or metropolitan areas, see that these amazing, unsustainable conditions persist due to the blurring of the government. Even Berlin is trying, and I think it is a bad tool, because I would not support the official ceiling of the rents, so I would not support a kind of public tariff in Hungary, but there would be other instruments, for example Jobbik has submitted proposals for this in recent months. I am thinking of a housing support scheme, Mr State Secretary, which has been extended by Jobbik's programme, and according to which we could examine it, where appropriate, per district, per region, per part of the city, that the gap between the average district rents and the earnings of the young couple concerned is great, and, depending on this gap, these young Hungarians could get a refund with a voucher system similar to the Elisabeth voucher, if only 20-30 thousand forints per month, Mr. State Secretary, this is also a gesture to the Hungarians that it is worth staying here in this country, it is worth looking for prosperity here. After all, in the ten-year horizon of wage competitions, anyone who comes to government in Hungary, we cannot win, we cannot even approach the Western European average, especially if, under the regency of this government, even a few percent distance from the Austrian wage level has occurred, let alone have been able to show advances in recent years. What we could say, however, is that with a rent-apartment construction programme, a housing support scheme, a proposal for full support from Jobbik for the flask baby scheme, so that neither the fees for the three hundred thousand forints, nor waiting lists come up against the Hungarian youth, and if we could achieve this, we could move forward in this area. And I have one more important pinch, if you will. I'm pointing these questions at this Secretary of State because he's a professional, fair and pedantic person who can answer these questions. I would like to be honest with everyone who can speak on this issue: how do you think of a demographic turnaround in keeping the 27 percent VAT rate for child-rearing articles? This is an EU record key. If I reduced the VAT rate of all child-rearing articles from 27 to 5 percent and gave every Hungarian family concerned a discount, I still don't think that a hundred billion dollars could come together, it's likely to come out much lower than that, but I'm pretty sure that this budget would be covered. And I am quite sure that these gesture messages are worth as much to young Hungarians as the tax incentives that I otherwise support, which do not affect the whole circle, only affect Hungarian citizens above a certain level of earnings, and this level of earnings has caused a strange selection as if the Government of Hungary wished to send a message to them. However, the Hungarian future is in the Szabolcs villages, it is in the inactive young Hungarians, who are unable to acquire skills at the moment, they cannot reach a dorm, they cannot find jobs in Hungary that match their talents. We're talking about six hundred thousand of these people. Six hundred thousand Hungarians were forced into the black economy or staggered on the edge of the grey economy, they received the supplement in their pocket, which is not fair, because it is very low. These people should create visions and visions in Hungary, and then perhaps the spiral of outward migration would slow down, and the idea of it would be reduced at all, because there would be a life opportunity in Hungary. This is the aim of Jobbik's faction, so that we can paint this vision for every young Hungarian, every Hungarian citizen seeking his fair future, and until we see the same things in the draft budget, we cannot support this package. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-07-08-65	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is LMP's representative, Mr Lóránt Keresztes.
u2019-07-08-66	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Indeed, at the end of the budgetary debate here, we are actually beyond the fact that every faction, every committee, has presented its own position, and here, because of the limited timeframe, there is only room for certain closing thoughts and appropriate conclusions or conclusions. [[13.50]] We also took our part in the debate, and I acknowledge that Mr Secretary of State was here all along in the debate and tried to give correct professional answers, but I would add that there were a number of questions that he could not answer or did not wish to answer, Mr Secretary of State. I will try to put one or two of these back in this debate. The reason why the budget debate is extremely important every year is because this is where the figures come out, where the reality comes out, where we find out the difference between what the government says and what the government is actually doing. So if we look at the budget numbers, we see what the government's real policy is, what the government's spending on, and what the government's not spending on. On this basis, we said at the beginning of the debate, seeing the budget submitted, that this is the budget for the future. I think that says a lot about him. We can read from this budget and from the debate over the last few weeks that the government does not want to face the global challenges or the problems that are most important at national level and are the biggest challenge. If you think about global problems, on the issue of climate change, climate change, one piece of data is enough to tell you about it. In this budget next year, the government intends to spend 25 percent less on environmental protection compared to this year's budget. If we look at what is the biggest problem at national level, my fellow Member has already talked about it, this is forced emigration, and on the basis of the budget, it is not clear that the government is preparing for the fundamental economic policy change that would be needed to stop this emigration, and in the medium term, we are giving those who have gone out of force to finally return to Hungary. Indeed, I can confirm that the kind of government communication that talked about changing the trend and more people coming back is simply a lie. And let me, as a rural representative, basically say a few more words about the problems in the countryside in this short speech. Here, too, we can see that the government has practically given up the countryside, betrayed rural areas, and is actually implementing a village-breaking policy. There are measures that we have also welcomed and voted in favour of, which are specifically linked to the Hungarian villages programme. At the same time, we have said in the debate, and I can confirm now that if they do not provide the right basic public services for rural areas, these measures will remain a communication tool in the memory of political science and will not be able to have a meaningful impact on rural areas in extremely difficult situations. I have said in person many times in this long, several weeks of debate that the government does not want to face fundamental system problems. It does not wish to face and does not wish to act that the most important public services are on the brink of collapse. Some examples include rural transport infrastructure. We have discussed this with Mr Secretary of State on several occasions. It can be seen that next year's budget will only spend 50 billion dollars renovating the side roads, and it can be seen that it will only be enough to renovate 430 kilometers of side roads. In contrast to this, the number that is 16,000 kilometers away, so today there are 16,000 kilometers of back roads in Hungary in extremely poor condition, and 16,000 kilometers of roads would await immediate intervention. On the other hand, next year, only 430 kilometers [430 km] of resources will be provided by the government. And I think we agree that, if the basic infrastructure, the basic infrastructure for transport, is not provided, then no meaningful rural development can be discussed. But I would like to mention the water utility system. It is also due to many professional signals that thousands of billions of forints would be needed to repair the infrastructure of Hungarian water utilities, the most important public service. Compared to this year's budget, the government has planned a reconstruction framework of only HUF 1.5 billion in next year's budget, which is virtually insufficient; adding that the largest rural service providers and water service companies are on the brink of collapse. My fellow Members have given concrete examples, obviously from their own constituency, which is not a problem in itself; Member Gelencsér has also spoken about a music school, and this is very positive in itself. But then allow me to give you a specific example, which is why there is a huge difference between the government's success propaganda and the Hungarian reality. I am a baranya representative, but I am deliberately not a baranya, not an ormanship example; the Ormany is one of the poorest regions in the country. I will give you another example in support of Hungarian reality, the example of Tamási, a small town in Tolna County. This town has a residential area where they cannot provide the most basic public service: there is no infrastructure that can be called a road. A man who has a car, a few people, is also ruined because of the very terrible conditions of the roads. There's no garbage delivery. Older people may have to carry their garbage for several kilometres to carry it to the collection vessels. And what is the greatest tragedy: here in Tamási, specifically in the Adorján-Újtelep area, there is no fixed drinking water supply in 2019, and even the transport of drinking water is a very serious challenge for the authorities. In recent weeks, in the midst of the greatest panic, healthy drinking water and clean drinking water were delivered only once a week. That's pretty amazing. And I think that, fellow members of the Government, as long as there is such a situation in Hungary, if even in a small rural town they cannot provide the most basic infrastructure, your communication can only be understood in virtual reality. Referring to my fellow Member, I can say that the opposition has not accidentally tabled 800 amendments, and it is quite amazing that you have not accepted any of them. There would indeed be a source in the budget to make these amendments. We can think about the multi-billion-dollar project of Paks enlargement, which will be in next year's budget. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] has been published by 70 billion, or just for the 1000 billion-dollar project of the completely unnecessary Budapest-Belgrád railway line, which you have already recognised as useless, which...
u2019-07-08-67	Thank you very much.
u2019-07-08-68	... you'd have to forget about it one-on-one. The LMP will, of course, vote against the budget. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-07-08-69	Thank you. The next speaker was Mr László Varju, DK.
u2019-07-08-70	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. There are more topics in the minority opinion block than the representative of the Democratic Coalition, and I could draw attention to that. However, by asking for our amendments on behalf of our group and asking for a separate vote on these, I would like to argue in favour of them and draw attention to the importance of their support. I no longer trust that we can find a partner from the government's side, but I think that in order for people to clearly want me to take into account the first and largest package, that teachers, health systems, policemen who work in the financing of the state, are public servants who, by the way, exerting their strength, in many cases, voting in confidence that sooner or later their work will be recognised in wages, but that you will ignore and do not do that which is unacceptable to us. Doctors and nurses, the shortage of hundreds of billions of forints in health care, and the need to use normal health services for Hungarian people are essential to this, and therefore the amendments related to the renovation or operation of a hospital are amendments VII. from district to Újpest, I think all of these are initiatives that you must respond to, not by rejection, but by support. Initiatives to protect green areas or to look back on health for a moment, by rejecting our initiative on prevention, such as the disposal and destruction of grass affecting millions, are incomprehensible and unacceptable to us alone. In this category, therefore, we have a number of such initiatives, linked to hospitals, health care, people's daily lives, wage increases and wages. But it also includes students whose textbook support we have initiated. Finally, allow me to draw attention to the fact that it would provide security and opportunity, the value-proof thing if you spoke about protection, if in Hungary the euro currency instead of the forint was not about the possibility of a distant, decade later, but rather about everyday life, which, in addition to the value-proofness of pensions, and indeed even with the rise in pensions, as I mentioned earlier, would be linked to a pension increase taking into account the mixed indexation, taking into account the increase in wages. This is, in itself, why we have tabled the amendments, but if you cannot support this, thank you very much, we do not ask for the budget either. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]] [[14.00]]
u2019-07-08-71	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman László Hajdu, DK.
u2019-07-08-72	Dear Secretary of State, Mr. President. I have very little time left for the municipalities of IX. I would like to add a few words to this chapter. The budget includes HUF 735.8 billion in the municipal government chapter. This means that when planning the budget, inflation was expected to be 2.8 percent, which represents a 0.9 percent increase for the 3800 municipalities alone. I don't think that's enough to keep you on the level. Moreover, it can be said that the tasks required for municipalities are not covered by this 0.9 percent increase, which can be read from this material. On the other hand, there is the already quasi-taxed solidarity tax, which has to be paid to the 167 municipalities, and from this they essentially operate nationalised public education, which, in the case of a district municipality, let's say, in the district of my constituency, meant only HUF 280 million in 2017, now, in this budget, it means HUF 700 million. This tax is so that nationalized schools can be operated. This affects municipalities in a similar proportion to 167 municipalities, with a similar difference. I think it's very important. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] , that there is so little money for expending tasks, today someone in this area told me...
u2019-07-08-73	Thank you very much.
u2019-07-08-74	...not for public transport, nor for improving inland roads, renovating and renovating sidewalks...
u2019-07-08-75	Thank you very much, Congressman.
u2019-07-08-76	Yeah, my time's up?
u2019-07-08-77	Time's up.
u2019-07-08-78	Thank you. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-07-08-79	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Szabó, MSZP.
u2019-07-08-80	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the budgetary debate, I was primarily concerned with the situation of the municipalities, in which we have been arguing with Mr Banai State Secretary for years, and he obviously insists on the numbers, and I am obviously stubbornly attached to the facts. I go through a lot of settlements, not only in my constituency, but also in the county, and I must say to you, Mr State Secretary, that the situation is not nearly as good with regard to municipalities as you and your numbers show. For this reason, I have made an amendment to the budget for the municipalities, which is, of course, about what I did in previous years, and I am asking my fellow members of the Government, and you, Mr Secretary of State, to support this. This is all about strengthening the funding of municipalities. This could be done in such a way that the current 40 percent of the car tax, which remains in place, should be 80 percent, as well as the levies and fines that were previously imposed on the municipalities, should also remain with the municipalities, and a significant proportion of personal income tax, which was 10 percent earlier, which the central government also took, will be returned to the municipalities. This would probably ensure better funding for municipalities, as I have said before, the Secretary of State disagrees with this, but I continue to believe that much more resources have been taken from the municipalities than the State has previously taken over. [[It's constant noise.]] Allow me to draw attention to one more amendment that concerns the city of Szeged and the region in particular. I would ask my fellow Members concerned to support this, and this is the southern Tisza Bridge, plus the associated railway bridge, plus the construction of the P+R parking lot. In January 2017, Viktor Orbán supported this as a first point within the framework of the programme "Modern Cities" under the agreement with the Mayor. There have been preparations in this regard before. The government subsequently transferred HUF 15.5 billion from the central operational programme to NIF Zrt. for this task to be carried out. In this matter, I have asked several questions to the secretary of state, to the competent ministries, I have always received a dissuading reply. This is the opportunity for my earlier amendment, which is about the start of the construction of the southern Tisza Bridge by HUF 2 billion next year, to be implemented. So I would ask my fellow members of the Government to support this. Thank you.
u2019-07-08-81	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik.
u2019-07-08-82	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear fellow Members, I am speaking to you, because you are the ones who have settled this country by saying that the child is the first one for you: the child is the first one for us! There is a very important problem in this country, as there are many couples, hundreds of thousands of couples who want to have their first child, but for some reason they do not succeed naturally. In this, lifestyle may be involved, and many things can be involved from different eating habits, and this should be investigated. But yes, there are couples who naturally fail to have children, yet they want to have children very badly, and I want to raise these children in happiness and with the greatest devotion. After a while these couples have the only option to participate in the IVF program, in Hungarian: participation in the flask baby program. We have raised this problem several times about the burden that these families face, the burden that these people face, and indeed, it must also be said that in the past period there have been measures on your part that are going forward in relation to the flask baby program. However, there is a very big problem, and it is that each such intervention, so each such intervention, and usually the very first one, does not succeed, is around HUF 1 million to 1 million to 400 thousand. While they are receiving social security support, families have to have about 300-400,000 forints in each of these interventions. Since many people cannot take this 300-400,000 forint, they fall out of this opportunity, because they cannot start these treatments if they do not have 300-400,000 forints. For this reason, Jobbik Hungary Movement has been submitting for years an amendment to the budget that aims to create a foundation with a target of HUF 3 billion, which could result in families who are unable to take this 300-400 thousand forints part of themselves being able to apply for this part of the budget and open up the possibility of having a child. You have voted against this amending budget every year. I ask you now that, for the families who want to have children, I would like to raise these children in happiness, I would like to give you and your child the opportunity to live in a family, giving these people, these tens of thousands of families, and the 601 amendment that we have asked for, their vote. Give these young couples the opportunity to have a family, since you say the child comes first. We also believe that the child is the first and that the birth of the first child can be supported in this way. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-07-08-83	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr László Varga, MSZP.
u2019-07-08-84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Let me say a few words of support for my fellow Member, Mr Sándor Szabó, because he talked about the fact that he had on the Parliament's table a proposal for an amendment concerning the general situation of the municipalities that would put the municipalities in a significantly better position, actually replacing the resources that you had taken from the municipalities years ago. Even though the division of tasks in terms of municipalities has actually changed, you have taken fewer tasks, more resources, and this often creates a very difficult situation. Most Hungarian municipalities lack resources from the developments. Of course, it is possible to think about a city with county rights, let's say that the possibility given to the programme of modern cities should be enough. However, these programmes are not complete, and in many cases they have actually reached the promised stage for now. So, in addition to the amendments that our group has tabled to my home city, I have also tabled amendments to my home city, amendments to Miskolc, which are sorely absent from both the "Modern Cities" programme and the European Union's possibilities. [[14.10]] So in this respect, I would like to ask you for your support, as this requires a majority here in Parliament. I think that these are all issues that I have proposed, and my fellow Members have proposed in my group, which address the problems of people living locally: from road renovations through panel rehabilitation, where appropriate, to addressing important issues concerning the environment and the smog situation. Surprise us, because we say these things year after year, either in the detailed debate in committee or in the debate on the summary amendment proposal, that they could at least support one such matter in a symbolic manner. Now we have the opportunity, and several amendments have been requested by our group, but I have seen that most of my fellow opposition Members have also made such requests. I think that symbolically a proposal for an amendment to the opposition would certainly be worth your support, but it would also be a surprising turn of events if our proposals in the whole field were to be supported, such as the proposals in the local government area that Sándor Szabó said. So give us a surprise and support our proposals. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2019-07-08-85	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I ask that, on the part of the factions, in the remaining timeframes, someone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Péter Banai Benő on signal:]] I give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő.
u2019-07-08-86	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In closing the debate on next year's draft budget law, my first word should be to thank you, as in the last month the Parliament has spent considerable effort discussing the legislative proposals relating to the budget for next year and closely linked to it. A significant part of this work has given rise to a debate not only on the individual figures of next year's budget, but also on the direction of economic policy itself, which defined the 2020 budget and which has characterised the government since 2010. This economic policy focuses on the value of work, support for families and security. I think that, on the basis of the number of recent years, this economic policy can be seen as a success. More than 800,000 people are working in Hungary today than in 2010. The unemployment rate has decreased since the submission, as the latest figure shows an unemployment rate of 3.4 per cent. Average earnings and real earnings are increasing substantially: over the last two years, net average earnings have increased over 10 percent per year, and there is a good chance that the net average earnings will increase by around 10 percent this year as well. With regard to the support of families, I think we can say that the commitment of more children today, contrary to the situation before 2010, does not result in the poverty of parents who have children. We know that we still have a number of tasks, but the fertility rate that we have seen in recent years is also significant in Europe. Finally, the emphasis on security, I think, is also not enough, not only for families, but also for the expansion of the economy. An important factor in making an investment decision today is whether the country or region is safe or not. It is work, family, security, therefore, which has defined economic policy and also sets out next year's draft budget law. If I look at the work, the bill before you calculates that the taxes on the work will continue to decline: here, the reduction of the social contribution tax rate could leave more than HUF 300 billion in businesses, from which you can raise wages; the key to the small business tax could be reduced from 13 percent to 12 percent, or the important aspect of the world of work is that the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage will increase by 8 percent. In this respect, therefore, I cannot interpret the words spoken by opposition representatives, such as President Varju, that next year's budget is the budget for the break-down. If we look at all the processes so far, both the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, then those layers of economic policy and this budget, whose income is below average, can also be the winners. With regard to the budget for detachment, I think that we do need to look at how much money the state is spending on welfare expenditure, and from this we can see that unemployment spending is falling to God, because instead of aid, today, as I have said, it has more than 800 thousand people's jobs, and its income is much higher individually. In this respect, therefore, if we are only talking about the development of welfare expenditure and the resources allocated to social assistance within it, we should not be talking about the budget of decompression, but about the budget of ascension. As far as family support is concerned, the repeatedly mentioned HUF 2228 billion includes home-building grants worth nearly HUF 300 billion. We believe that one of the important tools to support families is the provision of housing by property. It is not about staying in the apartment forever, but about what Hungarian families, the vast majority of young Hungarians, want, namely, self-property. For this, next year's draft budget law will provide more resources than ever before. The increasing amount of family allowances, of course, is also due to the fact that the family protection action plan is being completed, the impact is on throughout the year, for example, the tax relief of mothers with four children will enter into force. But if we mention nursery constructions and Congresswoman Anett Bősz tells the government how much money we provide for operation beyond the resources for construction, then I can tell the Honourable Parliament that next year's draft budget law is with good heart, as funding for the operation of the private nursery is also increasing, not just for building additional resources for the government. I would like to say no more about security; spending is increasing by HUF 174 billion, as there is more for education, health, culture or funding for municipalities in the three priority areas. Health has been mentioned a lot, and opposition representatives call healthcare a loser of the budget at all times. Let me say again factually that health spending could increase by HUF 184 billion. This includes two increases in the pay of nurses: in January and in November, the salaries of nurses working in health care can increase by 14 percent if the Government's proposal is accepted by the Honourable Parliament. Retirements. A surplus of HUF 136 billion may be available. This HUF 136 billion is not only intended to preserve the real value of the pension that has been seen since 2010, but we also have to consider that it is possible to pay a pension premium thanks to the growth of the economy. What's in it for the surplus? Out of the 4 per cent economic growth supported by the economic protection action, which has also been included in the budget for next year. I would like to point out to the local authorities that local authorities can be the biggest winners, one of the major winners of next year's economic processes, since local government revenue is mainly derived from local business tax, and that the additional increase must result in additional revenues for local authorities. As regards climate change, I would like to draw attention to the fact that nuclear energy is one of the cleanest energy sources, and we can reduce CO2 emissions significantly. And I think that we cannot go without saying that all these surpluses, all these tax cuts, can be achieved by calculating a 1 percent deficit in GDP and a 1 percent reserve. I think this is a security reserve that we must maintain, and if we take it seriously that global economic processes can have a negative impact on the economic growth of Hungary, which is well above the EU average, then we also need to calculate reserves. Allow me to say that the opposition did not surprise me either. Congressman László Varga said that he expected it to be a surprise. Well, the 803 opposition amendment did not surprise the government. [[14.20]] These amendments would not only be subject to substantive dispute, for example, to zeroing out those reserves in their entirety, but simply to the rules of mathematics. Out of the €110 billion appropriation for extraordinary government measures, opposition motions would transfer HUF 1113 billion, and from the €378 billion allocation of the National Defence Fund, these amendments would transfer around 916 billion. But we also talked about the importance of investments: out of the $100 billion investment reserve, nearly HUF 160 billion would be transferred to the proposals. I think it is therefore appropriate to look at whether the amendment tabled by the opposition is at all numerically, mathematically acceptable or not. Unfortunately, I repeat, in this respect, there was no surprise in the opposition amendment of the 2020 draft budget law. These amendments also included tax increases or would have increased the deficit. Dear Parliament, I think that the basic character of the budget is worth preserving. The summarised amendment proposed by the Honourable Parliament contains only proposals which, in addition to preserving support for families, enforcing tax reductions, do not jeopardise the financing of the 1 percent deficit target and therefore the public debt to be financed by all of us. We have a number of tasks ahead of us, but I think that next year's draft budget law could lead to a successful economic policy in 2020. If our goals have been achieved in the past, I believe that this economic policy can result in the increase of support for families in a responsible manner, tax cuts in a responsible way, and we can maintain security and funding of priority areas so that we can also enforce the overall public finances responsibility mentioned. I therefore warmly recommend to you the adoption of the bill. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-08-87	Thank you. With the closing words of Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő, this item is closed. Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work with decisions. Please check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, Next up is the T/6322 on Hungary's central budget for 2020. Decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to bill No 1. Draft amending proposal of the Committee on Budgets T/632/838. T/6322/839. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now the decisions will be followed by a repeat of the script here. I would remind you that, at our previous meeting, we decided, by way of derogation from house rules, that the leader of any political group should not be more than ten, the House Rule 48. It may submit a request pursuant to paragraphs 2 and 4 of this Article. The leaders of the opposition groups made use of the possibility of requesting a reservation of the amendments. We decide on these by group of representatives according to the order given by the group leaders. The amendments requested for reservation can be accepted side by side. First, we decide to maintain the amendments tabled by the DK Group. Amendment 518 tabled by Lajos Oláh, DK. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament rejected the amendment by 55 votes in favour, 113 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 528 tabled by Gergely Arató, DK. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament rejected the amendment by 54 votes in favour, 115 against and without abstentions. Amendment 566 proposed by Ágnes Vadai, DK and its fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament rejected the amendment by 55 votes in favour, 115 against and without abstentions. Amendment 567 was proposed by Imre László, DK and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament rejected the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 114 against and without abstentions. Amendment 568 was proposed by Imre László, DK and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament rejected the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 113 against and without abstentions. Amendment 572 tabled by Lajos Oláh and László Varju DK Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament rejected the amendment by 55 votes in favour, 114 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 599 is proposed by MEP László Varju DK. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament rejected the amendment by 54 votes in favour, 115 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 615, tabled by Mr László Varju DK. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. [[Vote.]] Please vote now. Parliament rejected the amendment by 54 votes to 114, with two abstentions. Amendment 654 is proposed by László Hajdu and MEPs László Varju. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 115 against and 1 abstention. Amendment No 671 tabled by Gergely Arató and László Varju DK representatives. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 116 against and without abstention. [[14.30]] We are now deciding to maintain the amendments tabled by the Dialogue Group. Amendment 606 by Tamás Melliár, Dialogue and Opinion. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament rejected the amendment by 54 votes to 114, with no abstentions. Amendment 609 by Sándor Burány, Dialogue and Opinion. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament rejected the amendment by 52 votes in favour, 115 against and without abstentions. Amendment 610 by Sándor Burány, Dialogue and Opinion. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament rejected the amendment by 54 votes in favour, 115 against and without abstentions. Amendment 623, tabled by Mrs Szabó Timea, Dialogue. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament rejected the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 113 against and without abstentions. Amendment 631, tabled by Mrs Szabó Timea, Dialogue. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 115 votes against and no abstentions. Amendment 635 is also proposed by Mrs Szabó Timea and her fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament rejected the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 116 against and without abstentions. Amendment 646 is proposed by Timea Szabó and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 115 votes against and no abstentions. Amendment No 664, tabled by Congressman Bence Tordai, Dialogue. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 54 votes in favour, 114 against and without abstentions. Amendment 672 tabled by Mrs Szabó Timea and her fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament rejected the amendment by 13 votes in favour, 137 against and 15 abstentions. Amendment 677, tabled by Mr Tamás Mellár and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament rejected the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 116 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding to maintain the amendments tabled by the Jobbik Group. Amendment 181 is proposed by Mr Gergely Farkas and Mr János Bencsik. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament rejected the amendment by 52 votes in favour, 116 against and 1 abstention. Amendment No 199 tabled by Mr Ander Balázs and Mr Zoltán. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament rejected the amendment by 45 votes in favour, 116 against and 8 abstentions. Amendment 358 is proposed by Vice-President Tamás Sneider and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament rejected the amendment by 38 votes in favour, 115 against and 15 abstentions. Amendment 444 is proposed by Vice-President Tamás Sneider and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament rejected the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 113 against and without abstentions. Amendment 510, proposed by Brenner Koloman and Márton Gyöngyösi. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament rejected the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 116 against and without abstentions. Amendment 55 is proposed by Adam Mirkóczki and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 54 votes in favour, 115 against and without abstentions. Amendment 554 is proposed by Mr János Bencsik. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament rejected the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 114 against and without abstentions. Amendment 591 tabled by Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament rejected the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 115 against and without abstentions. Amendment 601 tabled by Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát and Mr György Szilágyi. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 114 votes against and no abstentions. Amendment 633 tabled by Lajos Rig, Jobbik and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 52 votes in favour, 113 against and without abstentions. [[14.40]] We are now deciding to maintain the amendments tabled by the LMP Group. Amendment 685 proposed by Lóránt Keresztes, LMP and its fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament rejected the amendment by 53 votes to 114, with no abstentions. Amendment 702 proposed by Lóránt Keresztes and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament rejected the amendment by 30 votes in favour, 116 against and 22 abstentions. Amendment 705 proposed by Antal Csárdi, LMP and fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 31 votes in favour, 116 against and 21 abstentions. Amendment 710 is proposed by Antal Csárdi and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 31 votes in favour, 113 against and 22 abstentions. Amendment 715, proposed by Antal Csárdi and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament rejected the amendment by 30 votes in favour, 116 against and 23 abstentions. Amendment 719 is proposed by Lóránt Keresztes and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 115 votes against and no abstentions. Amendment 722 proposed by Antal Csárdi and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 30 votes in favour, 115 against and 23 abstentions. Amendment 744 was proposed by Péter Ungár and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 30 votes in favour, 116 against and 23 abstentions. Amendment 748 was proposed by Péter Ungár and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 52 votes in favour, 115 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 780 proposed by Antal Csárdi and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament rejected the amendment by 52 votes in favour, 115 against and 1 abstention. We now decide to maintain the amendments tabled by the MSZP Group. Amendment No 429 tabled by Sándor Szabó. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 54 votes in favour, 115 against and without abstentions. Amendment 435 is proposed by Ms Agnes Kunhalmi. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 52 votes in favour, 115 against and without abstentions. Amendment 485 is proposed by Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 54 votes in favour, 114 against and without abstentions. Amendment 486 tabled by Mr László Varga. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 115 votes against and no abstentions. Amendment 522 tabled by Mr István Hiller, Vice-President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 52 votes in favour, 116 against and without abstentions. Amendment 676 tabled by Mr Tobias József. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 52 votes in favour, 116 against and without abstentions. Amendment 687 tabled by Bertalan Tóth. I ask the Honourable Parliament, he maintains the proposal of Member Bertalan Tóth. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 55 votes in favour, 112 votes against and no abstentions. It's 615. Amendment tabled by Mr Tóth Bertalan and his fellow Members. [[Intercoms, including Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Isn't that 815?]] I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament rejected the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 113 against and without abstentions. [[14.50]] [[For signal:]] Yes, to be more specific, Bertalan Tóth's motion is not mentioned at 615, but at 815. Excuse me. Amendment 816 is proposed by Mr Tóth Bertalan and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament rejected the amendment by 52 votes in favour, 116 against and without abstentions. Amendment 817 tabled by Mr Tóth Bertalan and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 52 votes in favour, 116 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, As the Parliament has not maintained the amendment proposal, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the Committee on Budgets T/632/838. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 117 votes in favour, 52 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, Under the provisions of the Stability Act and the House Rules, the President of the National Assembly is T/632/246. It shall send the proposal for a single budget law to the President of the Budgetary Council. The Council shall inform the Speaker of Parliament within three days of the 25th Stability Act. § 3 opinion. The final vote is expected to take place at our meeting on Friday. Dear Parliament, Now, at 2:53 p.m., we move on to interpellation negotiations. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. The farmers are working to get tired? Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor.
u2019-07-08-88	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. In these days, the madness called green harvesting ends when, in an immature state, the vines are cut under the vines by farmers. Technically, it's the government's way of topping up rural destruction. Mr Secretary, in this Parliament, we have become accustomed to the fact that if we bring any urgent matter before this House, the answer is generally respect for the exception, the misconception read in paper. This mentality, by the way, upsets us in particular because it is not about bringing our own problems here for our own amusement, but we are bringing to you the real problems of the real stakeholders. That's how it is now. That is why I must thank László Biró, our Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county representative and Barnabás Farkas, deputy mayor of Ozd for taking the trouble and walking with me through all the wine regions of the country so that we can speak personally to those concerned in the last few weeks and in these days. Thus, in their message, I can interpret the fact that the government has failed when we talk about how it has tried to deal with problems in the area of grapes or wine. I hope you do not deny that that EUR 8.1 million might have been a better place than to pay us to waste these green curls unnecessarily. I will give you an example: the European Union supports, has always supported, for example, the creation of producer groups, where farmers would be left to solve such problems themselves in the framework of their own property and their own interests. Such a producer sales organisation could best ensure the management of such market anomalies in the long term. On the part of farmers, this demand arises almost everywhere, but it may have been the most serious in Orgovány and Balatonboglár. And believe me, Mr. Secretary, berry growers don't enjoy throwing away the fruits of their entire year's work. Moreover, we are talking about a humiliatingly low amount of money that they receive, and let's face it, plant protection does not end with this operation, so their additional costs will be generated in the course of the year. Therefore, instead of meaningless destruction, the government could have chosen another way, for example, to make grapes a value-enhancing product, so that we could add a quality added value. I don't necessarily think about the wine direction here alone. Here's the possibility of concentrated grape juice, Mr. Secretary of State. And I may not need to stress here how much more we would prefer to consume a juice from which we know what it is made, what materials it is made, and how much controlled it has reached the table, than, say, in this case, when we produce it from cane sugar or some unknown source of raw material. So, if no other argument was accepted, at least show that instead of meaningless destruction, this amount could have been spent in such a way that farmers would benefit, while society would also be able to spend these forints usefully. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-07-08-89	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas.
u2019-07-08-90	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The introduction of a green harvesting measure is justified by the situation on the European market in wine. Significantly more than the many years average, some 190 million hectolitres of wine products were produced in the EU in 2018, which is the highest figure in the last ten years. As a result, stocks have increased and the euro prices for wines have decreased significantly. Without rapid intervention, Hungarian wine producers would have been in a more difficult position during this year's harvest than ever before. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The market environment justifies both short- and long-term measures. Short-term crisis management market measures include support for green harvesting and crisis distillation of wine products. Both measures are fully voluntary. It is also important to emphasise that, in addition to short-term measures, we are working together with professional organisations to introduce long-term measures for producers. The green harvesting measure is financed from EU funds, allowing the use of the relevant regulation and source for a total of eight types of measures, including the restructuring of vineyards or the promotion of wine products. Indeed, the vine growers wishing to apply the measure had until 6 June the opportunity to endorse their applications with the competent mountain judge. Based on this, 121 applications have been submitted on a national basis, of which 72 applications have been granted, corresponding to 5623 hectares of wine-growing land, representing about 9.1 percent of our wine-growing areas. The high application number also shows the need for the sector to deliver the expected oversupply of wine grapes. I would like to respond to the thoughts you have raised about the grape juice. Unfortunately, the use of grape juice under the school fruit and vegetable scheme is not possible for a number of reasons. The process of school programmes does not allow the rapid response expected from crisis management measures. Not drinking juice, only 100% juice can be distributed in the program. Moreover, the allocation of grape juice with a particularly high sugar content does not meet the requirement of a low sugar content. [[15.00]] I would also like to inform you that there are still seven producer groups in the wine sector, which assist more than 630 wine-growing farmers in their work and market participation. The cooperation sells the member's vineyard with a turnover of more than HUF 1.5 billion. A significant proportion of EU Community aid may also be used for the recognition and operation of the producer group. Honourable Congressman, I would also like to say that you are critically mentioning your thoughts on the support of producer groups. I would like to state precisely: the rural development programme 3-9.1.1-17, the creation of producer groups and organisations in the framework of a call for proposals in total! three producer groups which have been partially recognised in the wine group have submitted applications for aid. A total of two of the aid applications were approved and one was rejected during the verification of eligibility. 2019 [[The president's ringing the bell.]] the possibility of green harvesting provides a safe solution for vine producers. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-08-91	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Welcome, fellow Members. I'll ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-07-08-92	So, according to the Secretary of State, this green harvesting was voluntary. Well, that's absurd. So when Tokaj-Hegyalányi is told in advance that a single berry will not be taken over [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: No, it's not true!]] [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: No, it's not true!]] Then how can you call this thing voluntary? They simply didn't have a choice. Or when Solton announces that 39 forints will be paid in the fall for the kilo of grapes, it cannot be called voluntary, they are forced to do so practically. (Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: It is not true!) Whatever you call an answer, Mr. Secretary of State, I suggest you go out to the capital and tell the 68-year-old uncle with whom we say I had the opportunity to talk, whose father's father was practically already working on berry growing, and with tears he was forced to carry out this task now, which was practically forced upon him, and he literally said that he would practically bury a piece of his heart with each cut-off. We need to discuss this with them, Mr. Secretary. This is not an answer, it is not acceptable, and there was nothing meaningful and forward-looking in it. Of course, I can't accept it.
u2019-07-08-93	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply 109 yes, 37 votes not, without abstention. Dear Parliament, István Hiller, Member of the MSZP, Vice-President of the Parliament, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology: after the vote and before the decision on the future of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. István Hiller, Vice President, has the floor.
u2019-07-08-94	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, On 2 July, the government and pro-government majority of the Parliament adopted a law that is unprecedented throughout the history of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. Despite domestic and international protests, the majority of the government decided to take away the research network of the Academy from the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. However, it is also an essential part of the law you voted for, and I would like to say this is not about the organisation of research, innovation, but about wealth and money. The Academy's assets are transferred to the State without compensation. There has often been an argument in the debates over the last few months that this is of no particular importance, since this property belongs to the state, which was only managed and used by the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. At this point, however, honourable Members, it must be stopped, because I do not believe that to be the case. It should be pointed out that in the nearly two centuries history of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, there is evidence of donations, estates, donations, and benefits, in a significant value. Whether we think of the headquarters, building of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, or the legacy of Count Ferenc Visó, the enormous fortune that he left entirely to the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, to make it clear: he provided land estates, real estates, bonds, cash and other assets for the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. It is clear that the current state budget support has played a central role in the operation, research and all other fields, but it is quite clear that, in the course of its history, the MTA has acquired considerable wealth from sources other than academic assets used by the research institute network, from private sources, from the support of individuals and from the offering of individuals. Making this state property without compensation is simply requisitioning, and I only said that because I graduated from Latin, many of us believe that it is contrary to the Basic Law. Similarly, it raises questions as to the role of the new institutional maintainer established by the law adopted last week in the use of funds for innovation in the future budget cycle of the European Union. In conclusion, I ask: do you wish to nationalise the entire assets of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences? Do you find it consistent with the Fundamental Law that the Academy's headquarters, office buildings and the headquarters of its rural territorial committees are made public property? I'm waiting for the Secretary of State. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I am honoured by your reply. Thank you very much.
u2019-07-08-95	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-07-08-96	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Before answering your questions, allow me to draw everyone's attention to what this House has not said in the previous interpellation: it lacked the false statements with which the opposition has so far sought to prove that the transformation of the R &amp; D and innovation institution system would jeopardise its freedom of operation and effectiveness. I hope this shows that the opposition has also seen that these steps are necessary, that we have done and that we have done so far, and that they have been urgent. Honourable Congressman, I can answer your question on EU funds that the role of the institution-keeping and the institutional network in the use of EU funds for the period 2021-27 remains unchanged compared to the current period. The very poor performance of left-wing governments in drawing and using EU funds in Hungary has been known so far. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] However, it is still not understandable why you consider it a novelty that the research institute's network maintainer is and will continue to manage EU funds. The institutional network was and is currently the beneficiary of a number of EU co-financed R &amp; D and innovation proposals in the period 2014-20. Our aim is precisely to increase the extremely low share of Hungarian science from community sources, and thus Hungarian scientists have opportunities of the same magnitude as Western European researchers. We do not consider it appropriate and permissible for Hungary to receive less than 50 cents out of 100 HUF of research money in Brussels. As far as the issue of wealth is concerned, the government's position is clear: the goods which have been put in the service of the goals of science and research must always be used for science and research. In 2006, the Academy received assets from the State for public service, research infrastructure, from which it operates the Institute Network. This property, the buildings of the research institute network and its asset infrastructure can only be used for this purpose. Let us conclude again: the government does not nationalise the assets of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences; the assets, buildings and assets used by research institutions are not transferred to any other property. At the same time, with the amendment of the law, the public function of the institutions will be removed from the public body of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and the management of the assets will be the responsibility of the Secretariat of the Eötvös Loránd Research Network in the future. The restructuring of the institutional system and of the financing system concerns only these public service assets provided by the State; they have been in the service of science and will continue to serve this purpose in the coming period. These measures are, I believe, in line with the interests of scientific science, Hungarian researchers and Hungarian society, and the enforcement of Hungarian interests is also the most important task for the government on this issue. That is why I ask you to accept my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-08-97	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I'll ask Mr. Vice President to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor. [[15.10]]
u2019-07-08-98	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Your Honour, Secretary of State. I've been praised for a long time as you did. He said that my interpellation lacked false claims. In fact, it was all true. [[Defiance in the opposition's benches.]] The whole thing I've said, not only is it the statement in your answer that it lacked untruths, but every single sentence and everything else that was exposed to the interpellation, it's true. Thank you very much for that, and so far, we'll be fine. All the way here. 'Cause from there on, we don't agree. Therefore, with all due respect to you and you, honourable members of the Government, there have been quite a number of signatures and recommendations signed by representatives of all the opposition groups, plus some of the independent Members. Therefore, I declare that the opposition will appeal to the Constitutional Court with the law. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: Time's up!]] and, accordingly, we shall forward our pleadings to the Constitutional Court. I do not accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2019-07-08-99	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr. Vice President didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the State Secretary's reply by 108 yes, 25 votes against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources, who cares about the fate of poor children? It's an address. It is for Congressman Gergely Arató to take the floor.
u2019-07-08-100	Mr President, Dear House, The judgment of the Metropolitan Tribunal the other day stated that the Ministry of Human Resources was also responsible for the fact that, contrary to the law, children were being separated from families because of poverty. There is a lack of methodological guidance, there is a lack of appropriate procedures to ensure that this drastic measure, the removal of children from the family, is not carried out for financial reasons, because of poverty. In most cases, this measure concerns Roma children, and we cannot accept as justification that this is simply because most Roma families live in extreme poverty. It is a huge problem that poverty affects millions in Hungary today, not in the statistics you forged, but in reality if you go out of Parliament and go out of your comfortable cars to look around the outskirts of small or larger settlements. But the solution that the social institutional system today often responds to out of necessity and lack of means to highlight children from the family makes the situation even more unacceptable and serious. In the longer term, the solution would be to really eliminate poverty, especially the poverty of families with children, if they were not on the streets by evicting families with children, if we were to find solutions that would help all families and not just the wealthy families you chose. But since 2010, we've seen that the government doesn't care about the people in the difficult queue, and considers those living in the worst conditions to be completely invisible. We don't leave anyone on the side of the road in your language means they're being pushed into the ditch. They'd crawl out if they could, if they couldn't, it'd be good for you. Ladies and gentlemen, That's not good. The only thing we agree with the government is that family is the most important institution, the best interests of children. But to do that, it's in the best interest of every child. Breaking out of the family, having a children's home isn't a good solution, it's a forced solution. Of course, we know there's no money for that, you say, but there's money for that, because it's here in the milk and honey river of Canaan, where the most important thing is to finally create a great Attila statue in this country. That's where the money's coming from. On this basis, I would like to ask the Minister why they are not helping Hungarian families to provide adequate conditions for their children. Why take children away from the family instead of helping the children stay in the family? Why are they kicking the guy who's already on the floor? And why is it more important to create a statue of the imagined past than to preserve our children for the future? Thank you very much. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2019-07-08-101	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-07-08-102	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Of course, for the government, the child is the first and you have the opportunity, honourable Member, to support it this Friday. [[István Szilárd Németh: It has just been voted off!]] when we decide on a budget that focuses on supporting Hungarian families. This raises the support of families with children, the support of children, far above the level you provide. You have spent 960-970 billion forints on this. You will now have the opportunity to decide here on Friday, in this House, not to spend HUF 970 billion, but HUF 2228 billion on Hungarian children and Hungarian families. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: That's right!]] We'll see on Friday that you [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] How much courage you will gather until then, honourable Member. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Two billion! There's so much wrestling going on. Zsolt Gréczy: Butcher family!]] You gave the Hungarian families that they took away [[Zsolt Gréczy: Orbán family!]] from them the family tax relief for the first and second children. Do you think this has made fewer poor children living in a row by taking away family benefits or reducing the third child to a fraction? Or the introduction of tuition fees [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: A family allowance increase!]] What you served as Secretary of State, do you think it was in the best interest of poor families? [[Zsolt Gréczy: Now there is tuition really!]] The doubling of unemployment, which is linked to your period, you think it was meant to eradicate poverty? Even Zsuzsa Ferge, your home sociologist, admitted that there was no such insensitive government who had not crossed a blade of grass for the poor, but only you, honourable Member. If we weren't so busy working so hard to make one move forward, a little less difficult to make a living a day, how would we win the sixth election in a row, according to you? If we really were to favour only a narrow upper layer, how could we be supported by an EP election, a parliamentary election, a municipal election, yet by an ever wider and wider group of people? [[Zsolt Gréczy: It is not free and it is not democratic!]] That is precisely because we have finally been able to help in this area, as a matter of substance, since the change of regime. You said that Hungarian statistics are liars, that's how it goes from DK, in the party of national defiance everything that is Hungarian is to be looked down on. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: No! Everything that's fidesz is a liar!]] Well, if we choose an acceptable genre for you, Mr Eurostat, honourable Member, then you can see that the proportion of people under the age of 18 who are exposed to deprivation has decreased by a quarter in one year. Only in a year! [[Gergely Harvester laughs.]] You can laugh at that now, but this is the performance of the Hungarian people, on the one hand, the result of increasing wages and, on the other hand, of falling taxes, honourable Member. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Is it the government or the performance of the Hungarian people?]] At the same time, in the case of people under 18 years of age, it has decreased by one quarter in one year, if we look at the whole country, not just the children, if I expand this perspective, we can see that the number of people exposed to deprivation has fallen by less than half since 2010. At the same time, if you look at the evolution of household consumption, you see that it rises every year. Its expansion is now well above 21 percent, and more of the additional income is consumed in Hungary. In the last eight years, honourable Member, the proportion of people living in material deprivation in Hungary has fallen at the highest rate in the international comparisons you have enjoyed. The seventh largest reduction in the number of poor people in Hungary is in the Eurostat statements you like. Thus, much fewer people have problems getting meat food on the table, this problem has been reduced to one third, the ratio of loan repayment problems has decreased by half, two million more can afford a one-week summer holiday. While in your time, in 2010, we were preceded by a number of households' indebtedness, we managed to improve ten places in eight years in debt levels. Therefore, the safety of children is greater than at your time, honourable Member. The court didn't make the decision you said otherwise, because it didn't point to a specific violation of the law, but called attention to a danger. In this case, the EMMI will appeal, but fortunately our legislation today [[Zsolt Gréczy: Ring the bell!]] provide much more resources and much more security for Hungarian families. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[Sándor Szabó takes the place of a gullible Dezső in the notary seat.]]
u2019-07-08-103	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I'll ask Congressman Gergely Arató to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-07-08-104	Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Speaking of who has not voted for what, you have not voted today to increase the family allowance, you have not voted in favour of social housing, you have not voted in favour of increasing support for education, increasing support for health care and reducing taxes on low-income people in the previous vote. [[15.20]] From now on, don't talk about what happens to poor families, because you don't even notice them, let alone do something for them. As far as Zsuzsa Ferge is concerned, if Mr. Secretary of State were to take some of his time to actually read some simple article from Zsuzsa Ferge, I would not ask for anything complicated, a simple article, you could learn a lot about why, for example, the averages and statistics you use are liars and why they do not correspond to reality. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: He used these!]] Finally, you didn't tell me that if everything here is so beautiful and good, then why the number of children being protected is increasing. And it's a shame that you're going to appeal against it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] If the court protects the children, the poor children against you. It's a shame! I can't accept that answer.
u2019-07-08-105	I need an answer, Congressman. Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 24 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. What will the government do to stop us from being a rush driver? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2019-07-08-106	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The Fidesz government has had many years and many opportunities to ensure not only the creation of a viable, high added value, carbon neutral and sustainable economy, but also the promotion of adaptation to climate change. It appeared before and after the Paris climate summit that the government only deals with the subject in terms of words, by the way, in public relations. It is no coincidence that for three years the EU has allowed the parliamentary debate on the national climate change strategy to lie down, even though the EU has committed itself in time to achieving the objectives of the Paris Convention. As early as November 2016, the European Commission published the so-called winter energy package, which, in addition to several new climate and energy regulatory proposals, requested Member States to develop national energy and climate plans with a uniform methodology and minimum requirements. The preliminary draft should have been submitted by 31 December 2018, but Hungary did this only later, at the end of January 2019, and only months later did we know what was in it. The European Commission has now assessed the drafts on 18 June. According to this, the draft of the Hungarian Government does not meet any more minimum requirements, and often it does not seem that the objectives set can be achieved by what measures and by what resources. While the greenhouse gas emissions targets are at the same time reaching the EU's minimum, they are far below the more ambitious targets for the benefit of the country. The reduction target of 7% in building energy, waste, transport and agriculture sectors is also modest compared to 2005. According to the Commission, the 20% share of renewables does not reflect Hungary's potential, especially given that the EU level has been set at 32%. The draft does not specify the adaptation objectives either. Mr. Secretary. How can you explain that the Hungarian national energy and climate plan has practically failed the EU test? What are the odds, political will, that, until the end of the year, they will be able to come up with an ambitious plan reflecting the country's real interests, including the completely absent adaptation chapter? And where will there be funding for the necessary measures, because the domestic budget for 2020 did not allocate any substantial money for these cases. I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you.
u2019-07-08-107	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-07-08-108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I must reject your claim that the national energy and climate plan would have failed. You know that the climate plan is currently being discussed, as part of which the European Commission is commenting on the drafts of the Member States. Therefore, the fact that we, like other countries, have received comments on the plan does not mean that the climate plan is not appropriate. We know that this is not the case, all the more so as we have to submit the final plans by the end of this year, so we must continue to consult widely with neighbouring countries, civil society organisations and industry actors. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If we are to try to communicate on a fact-based basis on climate issues, the first thing we need to say is that at present all the Member States of the European Union agree on the compliance of climate targets and ambitions for 2030. These are goals that no one will dispute, including Hungary. Therefore, in the climate plan, we are making the commitments that, in line with the commitments of the other Member States, can ensure the achievement of these common 2030 targets, as I am once again stressing the need to achieve the 2030 public agreed values at EU level. The second thing I would like to draw your attention to is that it is extremely deceptive for you to achieve significant greenhouse gas emissions, which have been reduced by 32 percent over the past period, and our commitments have been kept down. You are protesting that we are measuring the reduction compared to 1990, even though this international benchmark, which is what every country is measuring. Thirdly, let's talk about energy production. When we took over governance in 2010, the country had little or no meaningful renewable energy generation capacity. Compared to this, we closed 2018 with a capacity of 700 megawatts of solar power, and our goal is to increase this value to 3,000 megawatts. This is also a step forward that only opposition slippages can make seem small, insignificant. In addition, unlike many Member States already in the EU, 60 percent of domestic energy production is already carbon neutral, thanks to the nuclear energy that you will never stop attacking, even though the Paks Nuclear Power Plant reduces domestic CO2 emissions by 17 million tonnes annually, which is a huge number, since our total domestic emissions are 64 million tonnes, whereas our forest absorption capacity is estimated to be 6 tonnes. In the midst of Hungary's natural characteristics, the whole climate-friendly energy sector can only be created through a combination of nuclear and renewable energy. When you are debating this, you are not arguing with me, but with the innumerable scientific statements that climate-friendly energy production cannot be realisticly solved without safe and clean nuclear power. So if the LMP, you are serious about the responsibility for climate protection, you are in favour of maintaining the nuclear capacity in Paks. Listening to your speech, there is one thing that can be established, and that is that, honourable Member, you simply ignore the reality, but at the same time you tend to reinterpret the facts in such a way that they make Hungary look as dark as possible. This should be stopped and supported by the government's efforts in climate-friendly policy over the past few years. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-08-109	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congresswoman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-07-08-110	Mr. Secretary, to slip me out, let the numbers decide. You said what results have been achieved because between 1990 and 2017 CO2 emissions decreased by 31.9 percent; but you do not mention that the national climate change strategy contains in 2014 the figure that it decreased by 40 percent between 1990 and 2014. I'm asking you where that 8 percent advantage went between 2014 and 2017. Why don't you talk about Hungary's growth in CO2 emissions after 2014, with nearly 6 percent increase in CO2 emissions every year. If we look at this trend, I'll ask you what will happen by 2030. What's gonna happen is we're gonna lose this eight percent advantage with more benefits. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So you're doing the slide. I don't accept the answer.
u2019-07-08-111	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer, I ask you, she accepts it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 112 votes in favour, 21 against and without abstentions. [[15.30]] Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Nazi Friends around NAT? It's an address. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor.
u2019-07-08-112	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Towards László Fat leaving:]] Goodbye, Mr. Speaker.
u2019-07-08-113	Congressman, please present the interpellation.
u2019-07-08-114	I'll wait until...
u2019-07-08-115	You don't have the right to do that. Please continue. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: He is the leader of the faction, the leader of the dialogue!]]
u2019-07-08-116	I'll wait until it's quiet in the room.
u2019-07-08-117	I asked you to continue, please. [[There's a grumble from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-08-118	I'd like to start my interpellation. If the Fidesz stop yelling, I'll tell you why we're here. [[A lot of noise, a lot of noise, a lot of interruptions.]] Last week, word went out that they wanted to review the National Basics, because you don't have enough national [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The law contains...]] And the patriotic aspects would be entrusted to a famous pseudo-scientist, Michael Takolo, their Nazi-friendly, Nazi-stomping, principled friend. They want to entrust the development of the culture and human culture of young people who are working on the mutilation of Hungarian science to a man whose main ambition is to remove Jewish authors from Hungarian culture. Who has spent all his efforts in pushing the anti-Semitic principle friends into the previous version of the National Basics Plan, and has since made a living hitting on things that are not Hungarian authors and creators of Jewish origin who do not match his tastes. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: He's changing his lines!]] So this Mihály Takó is being unleashed on Hungarian children to infect their worldview with its destructive, toxic thoughts. This is quite insufferable, and, of course, as in his previous actions, he has now won the protest of the professional organizations and the Jewish organizations with Mazhis. However, when this news exploded, the Ministry issued such a disproved statement, which claimed that Mihály Takáró did not have a contract with the Ministry, and it is still possible to download from kormany.hu a document stating that he would take 9 million forints for his confidential advice this year. So I'm asking you, is Michael Takaro in a contract with the Ministry? Was he really responsible for filling the National Basics plan with so-called patriotic, actually anti-Semitic content? Or if not, what do you know about his role? Does she have a contract like this, if not for the Ministry, then for some backup institution? So I would like to ask the Secretary of State, or who will be worthy to answer, to account for the fact that Mihály Takró, this notorious anti-Semitic, bloody-mouthed Nazi friend of our children... [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: You spoke well, you spoke well!]]
u2019-07-08-119	Congressman, do not deviate from the text of interpellation.
u2019-07-08-120	...you could get close to your approach or you wouldn't. I'm very curious to hear your answer. [[Applause from DK, Dialogue and MSZP.]]
u2019-07-08-121	Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-07-08-122	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You're a Nazi friend from a party whose candidate for mayor of the party said that if you list representatives and members of the government of Jewish origin, it's not Nazism. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Don't talk about that, Secretary of State.]] You're sitting in one of these factions. [[A big round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] Your mayor's candidate said that there are still Nazis in Jobbik, but they're not active now because they're forbidden to practice their Nazism. So he's a Nazi, but he's not practicing this new way you set up. And for the listing, he specifically, literally, spelled exactly what he said to Gergely Gyöngyösi Márton Christmas that I didn't think it was Nazism in itself. Also, when it came to Tamás Sneider, who had previously organized a gang to beat Gypsies in Eger, and he was even proud of that, you didn't consider it a racist, nor did you, Gergely Christmas, your party partner. Also, there's nothing wrong with you guys in rocking videos. Who is the Nazi-friendly, honourable Member? [[Bence of Turdai interrupts. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Answer the question. Maybe Secretary Major will answer the question when you're back.]] All of you, all of you... you said... [[The president's ringing the bell.]] You said here, in one of your interrogations, honourable Member, in the previous parliamentary session, that you would join forces against us, even with the devil. Well, in this circle, it seems to fit the Nazi ideals, when, for example, Gergely Arató was asked what he would say about this, a swinging video and the like, he said on 21st January this year: "We do not comment on the internal affairs of other parties. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Defiance from the ranks of the ruling parties. Gergely Harvesto: You're lying like a river!]] That was the big stand for human dignity. On 22 January, a day later, László Varju said only that, since it is Nazi friends, the current scandal cannot press his stamp on any possible cooperation. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Talk about Michael Blanket.]] So you think it doesn't matter if someone's a practicing Nazi or a non-practicing Nazi, Nazi-friendly or non-Nazi-friendly, if they're in your power interests, then they have the changing room, you give them what the Rákosi did in the '50s, and you team up with them if they can get a minimum vote. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] István Hiller, our fellow Member, 22 January, from a scratching video, is not a wedding decision for federal politics. At weddings, someone could be a Nazi, but other than that, do you think? [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes. A statement from Jobbik: Speak of Michael Blanket.]] Csaba Horváth, 23 January:., Jobbik acts as a democratic opposition conservative party, and I have no reason to create a different picture of it. And Zsolt Gréczy said, also on 23 January, that anything can happen in Jobbik, it will not affect the formation of our alliance. [[Constant, loud noises, interruptions. Dániel Z. Carpathian: Do you love us that much? We're not picking you up! The president's ringing the bell. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Time's up, Bence!]] Then came Ágnes Kunhalmi, who said:. Therefore, my answer is to join forces with Jobbik at the municipal elections in countless settlements. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, So you're working with anyone, including those who bring in another Jewishman instead of the Jewish representative, who himself collects the American Jews who think hold the United States in their hands as Israeli agents. With the party of Márton Gyöngyösi, who went to the European Parliament, who said that Jews are undesirable in Hungary, and that against the unscrupulous push of Zionism only force is effective. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Benci, you're completely confused. Gergely Harvestó: What will become of the National Basics?!]] Honourable Congressman, You team up with the followers of these ideas and hope for political gain. And then you stand up here in Parliament, and you can't prove a man you can't do that, honourable Member, with any statement, because you haven't made a statement like that, and you're just going to make him a Nazi friend. You know, the opposition media was at least so much more honest that the correction was brought down, and you weren't even here right now. Thank you very much. [[A big round of applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-07-08-123	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Well, I wouldn't thank you for that... continuous, loud noise.]] My fellow Members, please try to hold back a bit. [[Intercom from Fidesz: It's very difficult!]] Following Mr State Secretary's reply, the floor is for the Member, and he accepts the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2019-07-08-124	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The answer to the Secretary of State was very weak, but when there's nothing to say when a writer who lives on Szalashi can't protect or deny Mihály Takó in the NAT, you can afford it. [[L. Simon László: György Lukács, György Lu-kács!]] I do not think we should go into the debate that your extreme right-wing policy is such a dark right-wing policy or our green left-wing policy. [[It's an uproar.]] Because the dark right side sits there and Michael Takolo is peacocking around the National Basics. So I would like to ask you to keep Mihály Takró very far away from the National Basics, keep him away from our children, and, of course, I cannot accept the Secretary of State's answer. [[Happy Stephen intervenes.]]
u2019-07-08-125	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 109 votes in favour, 22 against and without abstentions. [[It's grumpy. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, Péter Ágh, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade:. When is the elimination of the organised delivery of illegal migrants in the Mediterranean expected? It's an address. Mr Péter Agh has the floor, and I ask my fellow Members, who leave the room, to do so quietly. Thank you. You have the floor, Congressman. [[15.40]]
u2019-07-08-126	Dear Secretary of State, Hungary has been able to stop the uncoordinated mass of migrants arriving in the territory of the European Union and thus Hungary through hard and strained work over recent years. We all remember what it was like years ago when hundreds of thousands of people crossed the green line and marched across our country, camped here and there for a while. The Hungarian people have decided and said no to illegal immigration, which is why the government has done and will do everything in its power to ensure that no illegal immigrant can cross the external borders of the Schengen area affecting Hungary uncontrolled if he is not entitled to do so under the relevant international conventions. Dear Secretary of State, However, it is difficult for Europe to maintain the results of the long struggle if illegal immigrants in the Mediterranean continue to be transported in an intensive manner on ships of civil society organisations linked to the Soros network. However, thanks to the Minister of Interior for the new Italian Government against migrants, we can finally say that after Hungary, Italy will also defend European citizens. We have recently seen in the news that the Italian Government's Minister of Interior has taken decisive action against the ship supplying illegal migrants, whose German captain landed without permission on the coast of the country. As a result, many criticisms from Berlin have been received from Italy, but we must ask ourselves: are German leaders on the side of German and European people or on the side of illegal immigrants, in obedience to the Soros plan? Dear Secretary of State, It is in our common interest to protect Europe's future and to maintain a European Christian culture for thousands of years. In view of these, I am asking how the European Union is expected to intervene in order to eliminate the deliberate illegal smuggling of people in the Mediterranean. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-08-127	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Tamás Menczer, State Secretary, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-07-08-128	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Before I answer your specific question, I would like to look back a little bit, because since 2015 it is clear that migration is the most serious and the biggest challenge facing Europe, our continent, and we can remember that Viktor Orbán was the first Prime Minister and the Hungarian government was the first government to say that migration is dangerous and must be stopped. There were two kinds of reactions from the pro-immigration side. On the one hand, they tried to babysit, they said that there was no danger here, why Europe could not accept 1.5 million migrants; above all, not because it is not a million and a half, but according to the most careful estimates, there are 30-35 million people in Europe's southern and eastern neighbourhood who can make a decision to move towards Europe at any time. The other reaction from the pro-immigration side was that migration is the best thing that can happen, so it must be organised, migrants must be brought into Europe and distributed on a compulsory quota basis. So we can say that if the Hungarian government had not fought against migration and the compulsory quota, today Europe and Hungary would look very different. We stopped illegal immigration on land, we built migration, we built a fence, we joined our V4 partners. And there have been changes in other countries of Europe in recent years, such as Italy, where Minister for Home Affairs Salvini, as you have said, has shown that it is only a matter of political will and political decision to stop migration at sea, so if there is political will and political decision to do so, then it can be stopped there. So, as and as the previous leadership in Brussels organised migration, Hungary and Italy stopped migration on land and at sea. Of course, we support Italy and Minister of the Interior Salvini in all their activities and decisions to stop migration. Of course, we can also see that, like us, Italy is under pressure and is subject to constant provocation by migrant ships. But we can also see and have to say that those who support these migrant ships, which you have talked about, and want to organise migration with the help of migrant ships, are practically hiding in humanitarian robes, but they are endangering human lives, because they encourage immigrants, migrants, to take a risk of their lives and take this dangerous road instead of staying at the first safe point and waiting for help and bringing these migrations to help where the trouble is. That's not what they're doing. They're trying to bring trouble to Europe. There is yet another danger: whenever a ship approaches the coasts of Italy, the distribution comes up so many times, the quota, the mandatory distribution mechanism are re-established, and the migrants arriving on new ships again and again, who are to be accepted, and how they should be distributed. This is unacceptable to us. In answer to his question, it is certainly good news for Hungary and the Hungarian people that, according to their decision, Mr Weber and Mr Timmermans have failed on the European stage, so there are no candidates who have been openly criticising and miscritising Hungary and the Hungarian people on the one hand. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks.]] and extremely pro-immigration. In any case, better candidates will be placed thanks to decisions [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] At the same time, in reply to your question, we will also be asking for the will of the Hungarian people on these leaders, because the Hungarian interest and the decision of the Hungarian people are the most important for us. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-08-129	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-07-08-130	Dear Secretary of State, I think that it is in our common interest not to encourage migration, but to try to stop it, to take help where it is really needed, and not to risk lives. Hungary has been pursuing a consistent policy since 2015 to protect the borders of the country, to protect the Schengen area, and now Italy is on the same path. In order not to smuggle people who are willing to commit acts of terrorism into this area, while at the same time putting the lives of those people who take this path at risk, I therefore think that I will accept your answer and I very much hope that Europe's new leaders will take the right position for the sake of the continent, as decided by the European people. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-08-131	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The congressman accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources. Why doesn't the government relieve the burden of those who go to the pharmacy? It's an address. Mr László György Lukács has the floor.
u2019-07-08-132	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! It goes beyond the argument that Hungarian patients suffer the most financially from EU citizens when they have to go to a pharmacy. Since 2012, the share of private sector spending from residents' own pockets has become dominant in drug financing. The slow withdrawal of the state from support for medicines has resulted in people spending more and more, i.e. less and less support from the state. While in other European countries the state pays two thirds of the cost, the situation is 50/50. In fact, there is a European example and this is particularly interesting, such as Estonia, where a system has been introduced in which patients pay only 10 percent of the price of medicines after spending more than 100 euros, i.e. approximately 32 thousand forints. The Hungarian way is particularly painful for those who, as a result of their health condition, consume more expensive and less-supported medicines, or who, as a chronic patient, are regularly forced to go to the pharmacy. The scale of this phenomenon is not underestimated: 39.4% of our compatriots, honourable Members, over 16 years of age, have at least one chronic or persistent disease, and even as age progresses, this ratio is constantly increasing, and in the oldest age group, there are not only one, but two, and even three, of chronic diseases that patients have to deal with at the same time. It is also a talkable fact that nearly 60 percent of the drug consumption is prescribed and prescribed for both people over 60 years of age. It is clear, therefore, that the system in our country, which will then be different from all European customs on a regular basis, is contrary to that, which is very bad for chronic patients, but especially for elderly people. For example, in Slovakia, the state supports residents twice as much in their pharmaceutical expenditure as the Fidesz government supports Hungarian small pensioners, which is EUR 119 per person. It is not enough that Hungarian average wage is less than Slovak, Czech or Austrian, but even Hungarian patients have to reach deeper into their pockets. According to the calculations of the profession, the state saves nearly HUF 20 billion on Hungarian patients by forcing them to make up for the price difference from their own wallets. Obviously, ladies and gentlemen, this cannot stay that way. Domestic public funding for medicines needs to be changed and legislation should be brought as close as possible to EU rules, the EU custom. [[15.50]] It is much more important that Hungarian workers and pensioners who carry the least money home finance their drug expenditure from their own pockets to a greater extent than to spend on other public investments. In view of all of this, I look forward to the answer of the honourable Secretary of State to the following question: are you finally going to change the system of medicines that are not beneficial to patients? When are you going to return the 20 billion forints you took to the regulars at the pharmacy? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-07-08-133	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-07-08-134	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You referred to EU and Eurostat data and said that we should move in the EU direction. In 28 EU countries, if you look at the proportion of spending on medicines in comparison with household expenditure since 2010, you see that the proportion of spending on medicines in an average EU household has increased by 7 percent since 2010. And while it increased by 7 percent at EU level, in Hungary, the proportion of household spending on medicines has decreased by 9 percent. So I do not think the right direction is what you said, honourable Member, that pharmaceutical expenditure has increased by 7 percent in eight years, but that what we follow is that in eight years, the amount spent on medicines has decreased by 9 percent compared to household income. Our goal was to reduce the burden on the population, to reduce the burden on patients, not to look for business, not to provide extra profit, not to privatise, but to reduce the burden on patients. That is why we introduced the institution of the blind, which was a savings of HUF 7.5 billion for the patients and the social security fund in the first year. We were able to increase this by another HUF 2.5 billion in the following year, then by HUF 2 billion in the following year. If you look at the amount of social security support, honourable Member, it will rise year after year compared to the budgets adopted in previous years. In 2017, it was HUF 339 billion, HUF 357 billion in 2018, and if we accept the next budget this year, we will be spending HUF 393 billion on drug subsidies next year, almost HUF 400 billion, compared to 362 billion this year. We will increase these subsidies by HUF 30 billion from year to year. It's not just about the average drugs, it's about the high-value drugs. In 2013, 5 new active substances, 15 new medicines in 16 and 14 new active substances in 18 and 29 medicines in 18 were added to the list, including high-value medicines, very expensive medicines with up to 100 million treatments. In Hungary, there are 106 medicines with a fee of less than HUF 100; 294 medicines with a fee of between HUF 100-200, and 1273 with a price of between HUF 200-350, so in Hungary there are 1673 medicines with a fee of less than HUF 350. The fee for about five hundred of the most common medicines used to treat chronic diseases is below 500 HUF, thanks to its price reduction policy in recent years. You said 50-50 of the drug price financed by the patients and by the social security fund. Well, this is not fifty-fifti, honourable Member, but patients generally pay 26 percent in Hungary, and social security pays 74. So it's not half and half, it's a quarter for the patient, it's three quarters for the social security fund. This is the Hungarian ratio. And high-value drugs are paid 100% for by the social security fund. Of course, you can add non-prescription drugs to this, but I don't think it's worth mixing. It's important to watch what the doctor prescribes. Also in Eurostat, as I said, if you are combining medicines and medical aids, you can see that Hungarian families are spending nearly 10 percent less on this. There are other policies, such as the Greek government on the left that failed yesterday's election. With left-wing governance, the drug price payable by patients in Greece has doubled, but if you look at other international comparisons, honourable Member, in Germany, it has not changed much in seven years. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] these rates, and Hungary is now slowly [[The president's ringing again.]] approaches German proportions. I think a 9 percent drop is a good way to go. Support this by accepting the answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-07-08-135	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-07-08-136	Although I am unable to accept the answer, we owe it to us to correct a few things here. Dear Secretary of State, You may be able to tell me what the numbers say and what came out of mathematics in pharmaceuticals, but the thing is, people in the pharmacy don't see that. They feel in their pockets, on their wallets, they have to pay more and more every month. From month to month, they will be able to make less and less of what they are prescribed. One of the major problems in Hungary is that a large part of society simply cannot replace the medication they prescribe for it and cannot use the therapy it needs. Dear Secretary of State, It is possible to talk here about what is going on with privatisation or pharmacy, and there is one thing that is certain that the government has to do: to help those elderly people, to help those chronic patients whose income is largely spent on expensive medicines. The state's job is to help them, to take care of them. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and don't help the profit producers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-07-08-137	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 107 votes in favour, 26 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, János Harghitai, representative of KDNP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:, How does the Government evaluate the latest employment data? It's an address. Mr János Harghitai has the floor.
u2019-07-08-138	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Perhaps few people remember that in 2010, when we took over government, unemployment was at 12 percent high. At that time, few of us thought that less than ten years would pass, not even ten years, and this unemployment rate today is 3.4 percent. This is also one of the most favourable data in the European Union. The decline in unemployment is clearly linked to the government's successful economic policy. If the government succeeds in operating an economy that seems to succeed, which is growing steadily, then this economy will draw up labour, and this workforce must be provided in some way. Few of us thought when the Prime Minister announced ten years ago that it was appropriate to involve one million extra workers in the labour market, that we would succeed in doing so in ten years. Today we can tell the public that there are 800,000 more people working than in 2010. Only a fraction of these extra workers are now employed by the public. Of course, on public employment, I think that it was a good measure at the time, a good measure today. We brought tens of thousands of people from impossible living conditions into the labour market and temporarily employed them in public employment. Many of these people are now self-sufficient, even in the normal labour market. I ask how the government thinks about these latest unemployment indicators, the 3.4 percent; more specifically, what additional opportunities the government sees to involve additional employees in the Hungarian labour market. In Baranya, Peaceful County, there may still be reserves where this is possible. I also think this is justified on behalf of the KDNP, which is why I ask Mr Secretary of State how the government thinks about this possibility. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-07-08-139	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Sándor Bodó responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-07-08-140	Thank you very much. Mr President, Congressman! Dear House, Indeed, after the change of government in 2010, a number of measures have taken place in the country, which seems to have triggered economic developments in a positive direction, and the package of measures that regulated the labour market is very prominent in this line. We can see the effects of this, we can see it in everyday life, but there are perhaps two or three of the most important statistics that everyone knows. [[16.00]] One is obviously about the fact that more than four and a half million people are currently working in Hungary, and this clearly gives the country stability. Of course, it also provides stability to the workforce, to the individual who was able to find a place of employment, to his family. It obviously helps the business where he operates, but as I said, it gives the country a stability. In this situation, it is also necessary to see that 3.4 is indeed the unemployment rate, which seems to be a very good figure in the EU as well. But, of course, this does not give us the right to sit back and say that we no longer have a job to do. We also need to see how and how certain data are not very well-known, but background statistics, and I would like to say one of them with your permission, namely that the employment rate of citizens and workers aged 20-64, i.e. the most active age group, reaches 75%. This is definitely a very serious, very meaningful figure. We need to see that we can move forward with these background data. He asked how and how we could move forward, where there are other reserves. What we have heard very often from our political opponents is that the employment indicator is increasing because public employment is categorically not so. Categorically, this is not the case, as the number of public workers is constantly falling, in three and a half years they have fallen by more than 125 thousand, and it is clear that these workers have been placed in the competitive sphere. There is a legitimate question of how and how cross-sectoral employment is developing in the competitive sector. I can say, and this again only refers to stability, that employment has increased in almost all sectors, and in this situation the construction industry, the food processing industry, but I can safely say the administrative sectors, the IT sector and the industrial performance itself have also increased significantly. This also contributes to stability. This growth is therefore also relevant in the EU and exceeds the EU average, with employment rates and unemployment rates at the forefront of the EU. Of course, we still have other tasks, of course, because even if we have one employee, we have work to do, to be more precise: someone who has not yet been able to get a job. Here, in particular, we need to explore the groups where there may still be a reserve, and that is what mothers are like, all those who may have graduated from college, or who have a different education, but are not yet in the labour market. We need to think about active young pensioners who would like to be active even if not full-time, but in addition to a favourable form of employment. So there's plenty more to do. There is also no doubt that national inequality exists, both in Germany and Italy, and to this end, the Ministry of Finance has launched a labour market reform programme, the essence of which is to explore the labour force reserve a little more effectively and more intensively and to channel workers to employers even more effectively. Thank you for asking. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-07-08-141	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask the congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2019-07-08-142	Thank you for your reply, Mr Secretary of State; I also thank you for specifically addressing this territorial dimension, which I have raised in relation to Baranya, because I know that this measure, which you have brought up with your last sentences, will also affect Baranya County. I also think that next year's budget, which we are about to adopt, is a good chance for me to think about accepting this on Friday, creating resources to dare and believe in further increasing employment. Thank you, Mr Secretary, for your answer. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-07-08-143	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Anett Bősz, an independent representative, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Why is the development of hospitals in Budapest? It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-07-08-144	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dear Secretary of State, In the last few weeks, I have asked several times about the program. Healthy Budapest, but your answers have not resolved my concerns. In connection with hospitals and health care in Budapest, hair-scraping facts come to light almost every day. Due to the lack of a doctor in the summer months, emergency care in Budapest was on the verge of collapse. The situation is particularly serious in the case of multiple injuries, where only 75% of normal capacity can be reached. Whole classes quit overnight because of impossible working conditions, overtime, and low esteem. Because of the lack of radiologists in one hospital, the surgical department can't do its job properly. Paramedics transport life - threatening victims from one hospital to another because hospitals cannot or do not want to receive these patients. Surgeons continue to fail, patients die from confusion, disorganization, and lack of resources. The most critical situation in Budapest. While the living standards of the capital are higher than the EU average, the people among the V4 are the most unhealthy. This also has a major role to play in the downsizing of health care. I would like to ask the Secretary of State, he is right, that for months there has been a programme for the Healthy Budapest. I would like to know how much of the nearly HUF 42 billion budget planned for this year has been used so far, and exactly what has been achieved from the originally imagined plans. I would also like to know why the government did not finally contribute to the creation of a non-profit company for the development of the, Healthy Budapest, programme under the leadership of Attila Tóvizi. For this reason, the organizational work should continue to be carried out within the public service framework of the State Healthcare Supply Centre. If the Ministry justifies the appointment of Attila Tóvizi by requiring management, this institution is certainly not where the government commissioner is able to use this experience, because there is a need here primarily for administrative and professional experience, which Attila Tóvizi is not admitted to. Dear Secretary of State, Please reassure the people of Budapest that they will not allow the standards of health care in the capital to go further. Please explain why the development of hospitals in Budapest stands. How many more patients have to die, how many people have to suffer to get something done? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you. [[Zsolt Gréczy and Olivio Kocsis-Cake applaud.]]
u2019-07-08-145	Thank you. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-07-08-146	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, It is also known to you that there has not been such a great deal of development in the central region for decades. Four center hospitals are set up in the capital, including 11 national medical institutions and 13 co-hospitals in four ecclesiastical institutions and 32 specialised clinics, within the framework of the HUF 700 billion programme, which started in 2017 and lasts until 2026. The Orbán government provided HUF 40 billion in 2017 for the modernisation programme of the four million institutions in Budapest and Pest county. Among these, the purchase of medical technology was made from HUF 21.7 billion, and architectural planning started from HUF 18.3 billion. In the 2018 budget there will be an additional HUF 30 billion and HUF 41.9 billion in this year's budget. The program is moving forward steadily. Over the past period of 2019, more than HUF 35 billion was committed to ongoing investments, medical technology and IT development. At the beginning of January 2019 contracts were signed for the instrument procurement package with a total of 19 major diagnostic and therapeutic tools including MR, CT, linear accelerator, digital X-ray and mammographs. The installation and installation of the devices has already been partially completed and will be completed by autumn 2019. As a result of the development, the diagnostic testing capacity of the Central Hungary region is increased by nearly 10 percent. With regard to the coordination of the. Healthy Budapest, the government has decided that this task can be carried out as efficiently as possible within the framework of the State Healthcare Supply Centre. The work is managed by Attila Tóvizi as Deputy Director General, whose management skills you have already referred to in the second written question you have already referred to. I would like to inform Congresswoman that the existence of such management skills in the ÁEK is not only evidence, but it is also a guarantee that large-scale programmes such as the "Efficient Budapest" programme, I would like to emphasise again, which has not been implemented in the central region for decades, as planned. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-07-08-147	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I would like to ask my fellow right-wing Members to take a seat on the left. A State Secretary's reply was given. Thank you for your understanding. I ask Congresswoman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2019-07-08-148	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I cannot accept the answer, although thank you for responding in such detail, Mr Secretary of State. I think we've seen for years that we need to get complete hospitals out of bed bugs. We know those hospital footage of flour worms found in shower trays, bathrooms broken down. There were times when we had to ask the government whether there was any chance that at least hand sanitizer could reach every hospital in Budapest. [[16.10]] So I think that while large-scale improvements may have started, neither patients nor hospital workers find that any meaningful progress has been made in health care. So once again, I can't accept the Secretary of State's answer. Thank you.
u2019-07-08-149	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'm asking you to accept that. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 101 votes to 21, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the interpellation trial. We are now continuing our work with immediate questions. I would like to ask my fellow Members, who leave the Chamber for an urgent public task, to do so quietly and as quickly as possible. Thank you. [[Several Members are leaving the Chamber. It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, Péter Jakab, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How long does the Government continue to abuse people's patience? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2019-07-08-150	I don't accept it, thank you very much.
u2019-07-08-151	Thank you. I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Ander Balázs, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer. [[Ander to Balázs:]] Congressman indicates that he accepts the person to whom he is responding. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-07-08-152	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, While the Nersevik authorities, as their fists, see the party-state Court of Auditors as prohibited party funding where they do not, and brutally oppress Jobbik, they do not notice the beam in their own blood orange eyes as a good Pharisee. It is recalled that HungaroControl Zrt., the half-billion-dollar rain donated by the Hungarian Electricity Works to the CÖF near Fidesz, or the supervision of domestic air traffic control. A surprise package of 320 million forints, with which the Association behind Viktor Orbán's civic circle was filled with the Foundation for National Affairs. Especially because of the misrepresentation of a large financial disadvantage, I myself filed a complaint; it is possible to imagine the outcome of this, by the way. And then, for all of you, with the taxpayers' money, we haven't even talked about a couple of ten million bonuses to our friends. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Attila Móring József in the notary seat.]] We already know, we know how well public funds are transformed into private assets, and there was also a precedent for having their girlfriends with taxpayers, and they seem to like to provide public funds to Fidesz foundations. It is also obvious, by the way, that the great habony media ball is clearly nothing, nothing is enough: the propaganda empire's fake news factory and embarrassing machine is always looking for new mercenaries. I think it is right to ask, then, that the Fidesz representative, President of Fidelitas, has received public money from the Foundation for New Generation, which will now pay for the online trolls of pro-government students who are engaged in it during the booming municipal campaign. I look forward to the honour of your reply, Deputy Prime Minister. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-07-08-153	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén.
u2019-07-08-154	Honourable Congressman, I have no idea how he got the money. [[Defiance.]] How am I supposed to know that? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Look at the appropriate bulletins, and you'll see if they've been given or not received. By the way, in your speech, there's one thing that turns out beyond your misconception. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: It was completely concrete!]] It's that you filed a complaint in some case and it turns out that you were talking nonsense because your complaint was turned down. Consequently, Congressman, the fault appears to be in your device. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] And by the way, as far as your accusations go, if you're thinking about any crime, you're gonna have to press charges. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: This style!]] And if it's well-founded, then obviously it will have consequences. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: He did it! Interjection from the same place: And what did Peter Polt do? The president's ringing the bell.]] And if it's not justified, as your own statements have shown, that your complaint was unfounded, then don't talk nonsense. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-08-155	I thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman for a rejoinder in a minute. Here you go.
u2019-07-08-156	Thank you. It wasn't a problem with the contents of the reality reported, it was a problem with the Attorney General. By the way, Auntie Bözsi and Uncle Józsi should also set up foundations on this basis, so I wonder if the government will knock them out by tens or hundreds of millions of forints. Deputy Prime Minister, in order to make brainwashing more effective, I ask when the Free People will be introduced, as in the 1950s, or, let's say, half-hours of Hungarian Hírlap or half-hours of Ripost, where workers will have to listen to your propaganda texts on a compulsory basis. They really, really don't like it when citizens, the Hungarian people, open their mouths, there were a lot of precedents for that. Just think of the union leader who was fired after 45 years of work, threatened to lose a job, or to think about what they were doing, let's say, with the cultural workers of the public sector when the muzzle decree was forced on them. So, on the one hand, you're the one who's pushing the propaganda. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And let me tell you that the great praise and the lie are the two branches of the same tree...
u2019-07-08-157	[[It's ringing.]] Congressman!
u2019-07-08-158	...and on the other hand, they're drowning everyone's opinions. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-07-08-159	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr. Vice-Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Deputy Prime Minister.
u2019-07-08-160	You can tell by how much we're putting the word in there, by the fact that you've been able to say all this nonsense right now. [[Dr. László György Lukács: This is called parliamentarianism!]] In addition, your party media, this N1TV or Alpha news, for example, is a party media, if anyone's doing fake news, it's them. The second is that we know from the words of Dániel Z. Carpathian that this thing called the party pub is also under your direct control. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Was there a saying?]] So the thing is, you run a kind of party media, and then you accuse us of some kind of media influence. Once again, I can say about your foundation proposal that if someone sets up a foundation and promotes meaningful goals, we will support them. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Don't forget the left-wing media overweight!]] If you do not declare meaningful goals, we will not support you, it is that simple. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Noise.]]
u2019-07-08-161	I thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of MSZP [[Lajos Rig: Such demagoguery!]] You want to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question... fellow Members! Thank you for your understanding, because I would like to give the floor to Mr Korózs. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] Congressman Szilágyi, if I don't disturb you. [[It's ringing.]] Honourable Parliament! So the question of Congressman Korózs is:, Southern opening: will the government turn Hungary into a public toilet? It's an address. Minister Sándor Farkas appointed Deputy Minister of State as a response to an urgent public mission. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[On the sign of Lajos Korózs:]] Yeah. You have the floor.
u2019-07-08-162	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Names: Egerszalók, Székesfehérvár [[A statement from the ruling parties: Rio de Janeiro!]] Sitting [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Pope, Squirrel. Do you want me to list it? These are the events of the last two weeks. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Autumn!]] My fellow Members. In one place they bring 34,000 tons of sewage sludge from Croatia, they say they'll process it and just dump it. According to Hungarian law, dumping is prohibited; I must mention the Act on the Protection of Land, the Waste Management Act. I have to mention the latest such event, which, besides Székesfehérvár, I think is right to blow the fuse; it is a new story in the region of the Sitter. I have videos or photographs that clearly show that the South-Pest water utility is Zrt. Sludges delivered to its site are not processed at the plant but are discharged into the stream in the forest behind the site, and this stream is transported through several settlements. True, this stream has a kind of purity, but please, where the creek bed is not maintained, the fecals and stinks. [[16.20]] It has been notified to the local government, mayors, the water utility company in several municipalities, nothing is happening in it at all. That's what disaster control knows, the SAO knows, and the police know about it. Please, these are concrete evidence. That is why I ask the Secretary of State: if it is proven that the aforementioned laws are being violated, will you press charges in this case? And if there's a crime, can you expect to be punished? Thank you very much. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2019-07-08-163	Thank you. I give the floor to Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2019-07-08-164	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, We can now witness another panic and slide of opposition. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] This time, the opposition has found itself again in waste management in a lack of subjects and in a lack of voters. It is always indicative when the opposition does not object to the existing regulation of a subject and then suddenly seeks a case from which they try to create scandals with many, many misinterpretations and untruths. This is also the case with regard to the domestic processing of municipal sewage sludge. We do not consider it permissible for anyone to think of Hungary as a waste disposal plant in Europe. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Well, that's what you mean. The president's ringing the bell. Nacsa Lawrence: How yelling!]] The authorities of foreign countries as well as the Hungarian authorities will carry out their duties to ensure that only sludge of authorised origin and composition can be transported. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] It is not lawful for sewage sludge to be transported to our country before it is authorised to do so. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Migrants...]] How urban sewage sludge can and should be treated, disposed of, recovered and subject to clear and very strict rules. In addition to appropriate treatment and recovery procedures and, of course, compliance with the relevant strict limits, sewage sludge may be suitable for agricultural recovery, recultivation or energy recovery. [[Constant intervention from the opposition.]] The competent national authorities shall regularly monitor the work of the domestic operators involved in the recovery of sludge. The domestic company which exploits the import sludge has also undergone these checks, which in all cases have established a proper operation in accordance with the rules. I would like to point out to my fellow Members that neither in 2017 nor in 2018 there was any municipal sewage sludge of foreign origin in the municipal sewage sludge disposed of in Hungary. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I'll pick it up later. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-08-165	Thank you very much for your answer. Dear Parliament, In return, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Korózs.
u2019-07-08-166	The fact is, Mr Secretary, that I was behind the clay mine this morning, and we were recording it every two minutes, with tons of untreated sewage sludge from Croatia, with Slovenian and Croatian registrations. I would like to emphasise what is planned for Salók, Mr. Secretary of State, the 200,000 tons do you know how much this is? They're bringing 16 200 trucks of garbage here, right in the middle of the wine region. And on this footage, [[He's showing a picture of his cell phone.]] I didn't ask permission to demonstrate, but I'd like to introduce you to a mederkotra. This, my dear friends, is the dredging of the monori creek that stirs up sewage sludge. But behind him, they didn't dig anything out, the fecals are floating in the creek. From here, my dear friends, they water the animals, and there's sewage in the field. What are they producing here? Food! Secretary of State, we should put these people in jail one by one. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: That's right! Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2019-07-08-167	Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: Read an answer to this! Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] Fellow Members!
u2019-07-08-168	Members of the opposition, as usual, are letting go of information received from representatives of the government. I suggest you at least find your way around your own house. The most read opposition portal, which you know, has just presented the ways in which urban sewage sludge is exploited and its potential. [[Lajos Korózs: Secretary of State, it is not being used, it is being sold! They're not turning it into a flowerland!]] It would certainly help their political success if they didn't keep saying things against reality, making knots on the crap and not attacking, slandering the players in the whole sector in the hope of cheap political gain. Thank you very much. [[György Szilágyi: You are poisoning your own country! Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Why don't you take him to Austria? A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-08-169	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Congresswoman, I'll give you the floor shortly, okay? [[Dr. Varga Damm Andrea: I know! György Szilágyi: He will tell you!]] Dear Parliament, Zsolt Gréczy, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. The Hungarian bankruptcy report on the family policy of the Orbán government has continued to run out. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to answer the question because of his urgent public mission. I'm asking Congressman. [[Zsolt Gréczy, turning to his opposition colleagues: There is always a lower.]] , accept the identity of the responder.
u2019-07-08-170	I'll take it. [[Intervention from the opposition: Accept!]] I've accepted it!
u2019-07-08-171	You have the floor.
u2019-07-08-172	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Sad news came again in the days: according to preliminary data, in the first four months of 2019 the number of births was 2.7 percent less, the mortality rate was 0.8 percent more than in the same period of 2018, which was also a very bad figure. As a result, natural weight loss increased by 6 percent and 1135 persons compared to January-April 2018. These disappointing figures describe the failure of the family policy of the last nine years. In a few hours, you've eliminated the house savings, you don't build rentals, you've lost health care, you're missing pediatricians, you've only invented the CSOK system for the wealthy, and now practically the vast majority of families are hindering their sense of comfort in taking on children. The quality of life in Hungary is poor; those who are poor and unable to pay leave the ranks of the living more easily. We know from Minister Kásler himself that 26 thousand Hungarians died in a year just because you maintain such a health system [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: He didn't say that!]] that these 26,000 people didn't receive adequate health care. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: He never said that!]] [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: He didn't say that!]] that these 26,000 people didn't receive adequate health care. (Dr. Bence Rétvári: He never said that!) I'm not saying it (Dr. Bence Rétvári: He didn't say that!) Your boss, Minister Kasler, says so. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Tell me when you said it and where you said it.]] You are directly responsible for the death of 26,000 Hungarians. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: When did you say and where?]] [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: When did you say and where?]] And for their family protection measures (Dr. Bence Rétvári: When and where?) For example, they forgot to ask the Institute for Population Studies of the HCSO, even though his director said that you did not contact them with an orphan letter, even though you obviously had a proposal. Your family policy has practically failed, and the question is what they are trying to do to ensure that this family policy, which has failed, finally helps the Hungarian families a little and not every sixth Hungarian child is born abroad. Thank you very much.
u2019-07-08-173	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-07-08-174	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You like to quote quotes that you just don't tell us when and where the person said it. You're telling me you said that Minister Kásler has a minute to reply: when did you say where did you say that? 'Cause if you can't tell me, you're gonna expose yourself for never saying anything and nowhere. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: You wrote it down, you didn't say!]] And you've said it for the many times, and you've said it here twice, and that's what you've said. You didn't say, Your Honour, nowhere. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Answered a written question! The president's ringing the bell.]] Your opposition portals write things, but that doesn't make it real. Give me a location and a date as to when you think this happened. You said that's what Miklós Kásler said when and where? Because you never said, at any time, Your Honour, you'll have to admit, you'll have a minute. What shows the effectiveness of our family policy, honourable Member, when your idolized prime minister, Ferenc Gyurcsány, for whom you left the, independent, journalism and Népszabadság to stand in DK's mercenary, followed by many of the independent journalists, and Kálmán Olga, so when Ferenc Gyurcsány began to govern in 2004, Hungary was 23 of the countries of the European Union with its own prime minister in the last place. Well, that's a failure, being last. There was no one behind us in 2010, all European Union countries preceded Hungary in a childbearing mood, with a total fertility rate. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Rainbow Coalition!]] On the other hand, we have managed to improve 12 sites since 2010 against your perceived deterioration: Austria, Slovakia, Finland, Poland, Croatia, Luxembourg, Portugal, Greece, Italy, Cyprus, Spain and Malta in total fertility rates. [[16.30]] You think this is a failure, honourable Member, that while you have brought Hungary to the very end of this list, the children's children's list, we have improved 12 places compared to this. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] and we hope that further improvements can be made. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-08-175	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2019-07-08-176	Thank you very much. The State Health Services Center has something to do with the government, doesn't it? There's not 26,000 there, there's a lot more. This is the data that your government has admitted. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: That's right! Dr. Bence Rétvári: When did you say that?! Where did he say that?!]] More than 26,000 people died in Hungary because there is no adequate healthcare [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: When did you say that?! Where did he say that?!]] Says your government organization. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: When did you say that?! And where did he say that?! Nacsa Lawrence: So you lied then! So you lied!]] It's the truth. And to me, I'm sorry, Secretary of State. [[Intercoms. The president's ringing the bell.]] I don't want you to play with me, because during Gyurcsány's time, more children were born than they are now. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] [[Intercoms. The president's ringing the bell.]] Don't give me a ring, because in Gyurcsány's time, more children were born than now (intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties). ) and fewer people died than they are now! (Interjections. The president's ringing. Don't tell me fertility rates. More than 15,000 children were born during the Gyurcsány government than during your government. The other is that you've come up with this Népszabadság for the third time. I worked at Népszabadság, but not when your András Bencsik was still a member of the labour force. [[Intercoms from the governing parties and Jobbik.]] and he was a senior associate of the Party Life column, and not when Zsolt Bayer wrote the articles about Fidesz [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] remembering the scandal at the headquarters; at that time Zsolt Bayer was not your friend, but he worked for Népszabadság. Luckily, I avoided these gentlemen on this paper. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you very much.
u2019-07-08-177	Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. [[Zsolt Gréczy to Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Worker is your friend!]]
u2019-07-08-178	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Congressman, Dear House, In your first speech, you said that was what Miklós Kásler said. I'll ask you when, you couldn't say a location, date, date, anything. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea picks up her cell phone: Here, July 1, 2018!]] He said it was an institution. [[György Szilágyi: 1 July 2018!]] Well, that's bad enough even for an image disorder, honourable Member. [[Gréczy Zsolt: 1 July 2018]] That's what an institution said. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes. Gréczy Zsolt: There it is, 1 July 2018! The president's ringing the bell.]] Honourable Congressman, Based on the false news of the opposition media, you are talking in Parliament, which is what you have admitted in your two plus one-minute contributions. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] And what would have happened if it had been Ferenc Gyurcsány [[Zsolt Gréczy: Fire him if he didn't tell the truth.]] At the same rate as in 2008, 2009, 2010 and so in the last years of your government, the number of children born in Hungary has fallen [[Zsolt Gréczy: What are you talking about? Fifteen thousand more children were born! 15,000! Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] and put it next to how the birth rate changed, but fortunately, slightly lessened. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Minus 15,000!]] You can see that, honourable Member. [[Zsolt V. Németh intervenes.- Zsolt Gréczy to Zsolt V. Németh: Leave me alone...!]] that since 2010, 88,000 more children have been born because they do not [[Intercoms. The president's ringing the bell.]] Gyurcsány-Bajnai-tendence continued, but this trend changed after 2010. And you can't justify why you didn't vote for the family plan. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Along with his party associates. Thank you very much. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Minus 15,000 children, compared to Gyurcsány minus 15,000! Dr. Bence Rétvári: 88,000 more! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-08-179	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. [[Intercoms.]] My fellow Members, this is not progressing. I think, if possible, we should honor each other by listening, right? Thank you. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: - Why doesn't the government want to stop migration? It's an address. Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén Deputy Prime Minister in response to an urgent public mission [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] He's assigned it. I ask the congressman, do you accept the person of the response, or personally, the Prime Minister...
u2019-07-08-180	Yes, Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2019-07-08-181	Yeah. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2019-07-08-182	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, On one thing, I think we can all agree here: that dealing with the migration crisis is a matter of fate for the whole of Europe and fate for all Hungarians. [[Dr. Zsolt Semjén nodds.]] I believe that almost all of us can also agree that climate change is one of the most important causes of migration. It seems to me that the members of the government, the pro-government representatives, have not yet accepted this, but overall, there is, in this, a professional consensus. Climate change triggers brutal migratory pressure due to the emergence of permanent drought, water scarcity, a drastic reduction in agricultural production potential. According to the UN's most careful estimates, the number of climate migrants in 2050 could reach 200 million. I am quoting János Áder, President János Áder said that the longer we wait with the decisions needed to curb climate change, the greater the cost for which mankind will pay, and President Áder said that the climate change and the water crisis alone have serious economic and political and social consequences, the sharpening of political tensions, the emergence of war situations and, ultimately, the increase in migration will be the result of this, said President János Áder. Nevertheless, Hungary, together with the Czech Republic and Poland, has vetoed the European Union's climate strategy until 2050, which would have been a great opportunity for the Union to take huge steps in its own power to reduce climate change. Deputy Prime Minister! You are aware of these consequences, you know perfectly well that you will be directly responsible for the fact that migration, migration pressure, which is much more brutal than what we have seen so far, and that a much more powerful migration process can be launched towards Hungary. My question is, it was a political decision on your part: why did they make this decision? Thank you.
u2019-07-08-183	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén. Here you go.
u2019-07-08-184	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman. We not only want to stop migration, but we have also actually stopped migration. Give me some data, though. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] We have built a safety barrier for 300 kilometers, we have built a second line of protection for 155 kilometers; since 2017, intelligent signalling and new thermal cameras have helped to protect the border. [[Dr. László György Lukács: We set up the bond business!]] Thousands of policemen and soldiers are serving; we have punished the organisation of illegal migration; the seventh amendment includes the principle of the first safe country resulting from the Geneva Convention and the prohibition of the resettlement of the foreign population, thus guaranteeing the sovereignty and security of Hungary. So much for migration. Climate change is indeed a very serious problem for all mankind, and I think that Hungary has done everything Hungary can do. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] If I may, I'd like to tell you a few things. [[Tordai Bence: What?!]] [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] If I may, I'd like to tell you a few things. (Bence of Turdai: What? ! Firstly, Hungary is one of the 21 countries in the world where gross domestic product has increased since 1990 while CO2 emissions have decreased by 32 percent, energy consumption by 15 percent and greenhouse gas emissions by 35 percent. Today in Hungary... (Bence Tordai intervenes.) That is not true, because it is not compared to 90, but it has decreased by 24 percent since 2010, so it is not factually true, what the Member is yelling. (Bence of Turdai interrupts.) Our emissions related to the production of unit national income decreased by 24 per cent, not by 90 per cent, but by 2010. This means that all those, such as yourself, who believe that our emission reduction is solely due to the industrial collapse after 90 simply are not telling the truth. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts. The president's ringing the bell. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-08-185	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister, there will be an opportunity for further rejoinder. I give the floor to the congressman. There you go. You have a rejoinder.
u2019-07-08-186	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. The Deputy Prime Minister spoke about the conditions in Hungary, but you vetoed the possibility of taking action at the level of the European Union to reduce climate change. We fully agree that immigration policy must be kept in national competence, and that illegal migration must be stopped and the external borders of the Union protected. But, Deputy Prime Minister, if, because of climate change, tens of millions or hundreds of millions of people reach the borders of Europe, do you think, honestly, this fence will stop them? Thank you. [[György Balla and Dr. László György Lukács intervene.]]
u2019-07-08-187	Thank you very much. The Deputy Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go.
u2019-07-08-188	Congressman! Hungary will do what Hungary can to comply with the Paris Convention. By the way, in terms of climate change and CO2 emissions, the United States' carbon emissions, what China is doing, or how it is cut down in Brazil, Hungary has little competence in this. [[Dr. László Keresztes, Lóránt is intruding.]] Hungary, which is Hungary's business, adheres to the Paris Treaty. You can't really ask for any more. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-08-189	Thank you very much for the Deputy Prime Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question, "Is the Constitution still one-party?" It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Orbán Balázs Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister himself for an answer. [[Car-Cake Olivio nods.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-07-08-190	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Recently, the news is that Fidesz wants to touch the granite-solid Fundamental Law again after the municipal election. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: That's right!]] This is reflected in the Prime Minister's two earlier statements: in June 2018 on Kossuth Radio, he said that we would like to launch a year-and-a-half constitutional review in the autumn. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] followed by a major constitutional amendment. In January 2019, he answered a question at the Government Info, said: "We are moving slowly, we will finish a few months later. (Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.) In a year and a half, the government has the opportunity to coordinate with opposition parliamentary parties, trade unions and civil society organisations in order not to have a one-party constitution. [[16.40]] However, our experience so far shows that this is only a dream, the 2012 Fundamental Law adopted and entered into force on 1 January, was only written by Fidesz and only voted by Fidesz. It's a one-party constitution. I know you claim that you have two thirds and that you need two thirds to amend the Constitution, but on the basis of the votes cast in the 18th elections, you represent 49 percent of the voters, and yet it looks stupid that the majority has nothing to say about what is in Hungary's most important law. There is also a concern that they intend to amend it after the municipal elections. You're not trying to cut down the powers of the local government, are you? If it isn't the mayor's authority, if the opposition wins a greater victory in the municipal elections and Gergely Christmas becomes the mayor of Budapest. This is also a cause for concern. I would therefore like to ask the honourable Secretary of State that once again, József Szájer will write the next Fundamental Law and Constitution on his iPad, and he will be pushed into Parliament as a matter of urgency, and we opposition representatives will only have the task of voting on this. If we don't vote for him, will we be traitors? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2019-07-08-191	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Orbán. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-07-08-192	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I'd just like to change a few things. I'd like to start with the facts first. Amendment to the Constitution cannot be negotiated in exceptional and urgent proceedings. [[Intervention from the benches of the governing parties: Oops! Bence of Turdai: That's the point...]] So this is a fundamental material error... I'm sorry, I just think if there are two minutes to discuss matters in public in this country, then it's worth paying attention to not saying things that are factually not true. [[Car-Cake Olivio interrupts.]] The other is that if you've been watching the government info that the Minister said, it's still in control. The Index, speaking of propaganda, has started the municipal campaign. There's nothing to do with any constitutional amendment to the mayor's election. By pushing the candidate for the left-wing opposition, the Index is trying to blow some kind of bubble from this fake news and obviously influence the election of the mayor in an unfavorable direction for the government. I'm suggesting that these Fake News bubbles shouldn't sit up, Congressman. The other thing that's a matter of constitutional theory is that you always say that amendment of the Constitution would be a problem. The flexibility of the Constitution and the stability of the Constitution are two separate things. The stability of the constitution is a value, but the Hungarian constitution is a flexible constitution in international comparison. I draw attention to the fact that, by the way, the British Constitution of History is a rather nice, rather long-standing constitution, where even two thirds of the British Members of Parliament do not need the vote to amend the Constitution. The Hungarian constitution is attached to a less flexible, two-thirds majority to the amendment of the constitution and the adoption of the new constitution, so the legitimacy of the 2011 Fundamental Law and the constitutional amendments that have taken place since then cannot be disputed simply, standing on the ground of common sense. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-07-08-193	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. You have the floor, Congressman, a one-minute rejoinder.
u2019-07-08-194	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I didn't say it was urgent, I said it was urgent, but anyway, thank you for the lecture. I have a proposal for a constitutional amendment, however, raised by your future Minister of Justice. He was very sorry that the European Public Prosecutor's Office could not be joined because it was unconstitutional. So here is the opportunity to amend a Constitution in order for Hungary to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office. [[Bence of Turdai applauds.]] The Prime Minister is talking about revision, not amendment, and there is a difference between the two words. The question is, if this Fundamental Law, which was adopted seven years ago, was so great, then why is revision necessary? I mean, you were celebrating this, it's not an amendment, it's a revision. So it would be good to see clearly, and it would be good to stop keeping secrets, since most voters will not be involved in this decision if opposition parties are left out.
u2019-07-08-195	Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2019-07-08-196	Congressman! The terminology you're using, constitutional law doesn't know. Constitutional law is aware of the amendment in Hungary. What you identify as revision is a maximum concept of constitutional history or political history. I'm not obligated to examine that. The fact that we are reviewing the Constitution from time to time is undoubtedly a fact, we are trying to change it from time to time. We are trying to amend the Constitution in such a way that it serves the interests of the Hungarian people better, and we are trying to win the support of opposition representatives every time, from time to time, from the adoption of the Fundamental Law, where all parliamentary groups were present in the ad hoc committee for the preparation of the Constitution. And the fact is that the opposition representatives did not support any of these amendments in favour of the Hungarian people. Not the last thing that was about protecting our sovereignty, we can stop migration. This was not supported by you, the representatives of the opposition parties and specifically by your faction. [[György Balla: That's right!]] And we're gonna ask for help with that. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] stand by the Hungarian people and support the proposals for amendment of the Constitution. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Bence Tordai and Zsolt Gréczy intervene.]]
u2019-07-08-197	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr.Barna Pál Zsigmond, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the foreign minister an immediate question: "What are the Zuglós preparing for, or what is necessary in the event of a local government's bankruptcy? " with the title " Minister Tibor Pogácsás has appointed Minister of State to respond to the urgent public task. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity. [[Dr. Zsigmond Barna Pál: I accept.]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-07-08-198	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Unfortunately, the situation is unchanged in Zugló: despite the pressure of public opinion, the population and the body of representatives, Christmas continues to go its own way and thus draws Zugló's financial position even further. The months-long parking scandal has shown that Christmas is completely inadequate for city leaders, as the only one of the districts in Budapest is the one that has lost parking in Zugló, which he has led. It deals exclusively with its own mayor's ambitions and the opposition's unconventional efforts. His own notary also has an opinion on the management of the city manager when he declares that the $2 billion overdraft will keep Zuglo alive. Imre Papp continues to go when he says the following about the professional performance of Christmas:. The board keeps making decisions, for which there is no cover for a significant part. In fact, Zugló lives on credit, and the 2 billion HUF bill money is the protective shield, which keeps the budget going from month to month. The miracle is that the budget is still operational. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The notary also said at the same meeting that because he has a good basis for comparison in the country, he can say that Zugló misses everything and everyone. As he said, in medium-sized cities, health care is better, kindergarten is better and nursery is better. When Ferenc Gyurcsány's former secretary of state makes such serious statements, it can really be a big problem in Zugló. This is supported by the figures, as the municipality spends HUF 1.5 billion, while last year's revenues are also 3.5 billion behind the draft. If the district spends at this rate, it will soon be insolvent. It is a miracle that employees in the local government and institutions still get paid. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Come on! There was even a raise!]] In view of what has been said, I would like to ask Mr. Secretary of State what the people of Zugló may be up to, or [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] which procedure is necessary in the event of bankruptcy of a municipality. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Lies! Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-07-08-199	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2019-07-08-200	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The municipal system, I think, is the most successful sector of the Hungarian regime change. The municipalities, in general, are able to carry out their duties. Following consolidation in 2010, and following a change in the division of tasks, all the basic conditions for the operation of the municipal system are given. We are well aware that until 2010, a large proportion of municipalities were forced to carry out their tasks through a loss of assets or credit, and we are not only talking about development tasks, not only that they had to produce the self-esteem required for applications from credit or asset recovery, but also that the norms necessary for their operation were so low that it had to be produced locally. The debt transfer of municipalities and consolidation have created the possibility of free running of municipalities. This has been further facilitated by the division of tasks, in which, for example, instead of inappropriate norms, the municipality's additional support and the local government's investment remain with the municipalities. In the case of Zugló, the state took over some HUF 7.5 billion, so the district had a stable management opportunity. The district's tax power is about 50 thousand forints, which is significantly higher than the Hungarian average. So with its own incomes, a well-organised farming and a well-organised settlement operation, the district, as can be said for most districts, would be able to meet the needs of the population, able to run the district with urban management of the age. [[16.50]] If this doesn't work, then obviously steps are needed. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-08-201	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. In return, I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Sigismund.
u2019-07-08-202	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. There is indeed a great deal of trouble in Zuglo, because on several occasions the inadequacy of Mayor Christmas has been revealed. The latest news is that one of the parking contracts has expired, and there will be no one to collect the parking fees, no one to run the parking, because the mayor is not doing anything to settle the parking situation in Zuglo. The contract should be terminated and parking should be free for the benefit of the Zuglós. It is also a cause for concern that it has been found that everything is not all right with the investment in Butterfly Park. The investment costs more than three times as much, the investment is already at HUF 680 million instead of the planned HUF 250 million, with the investment being delayed, it has not yet been handed over. Christmas tricked the Zuglós, promised to plant more greens, more trees in Zugló. While he accuses István Tarlós of cutting down the trees, he cut down a lot more trees in Zuglo, so he cheated the Zuglós. We are very concerned about the situation in Zugló, and I am concerned about what will happen to Zugló. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-08-203	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-07-08-204	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, The mayor of the municipality, the municipality or the district is an elected official, i.e. the voters are those who, in the first part, constitute a value judgment on his activities. The municipal law gives the municipality freedom to manage it, but this freedom must obviously be accompanied by responsibility. Therefore, if the question of what the government is doing or what it can do in the case of an irregular municipality, I can tell you that the regularity of farming is controlled by government agencies, but not by its practicality. So, the fact that a farm is properly carried out by the municipality can be verified, but the expediency must be decided by the voters, and the voters will judge that the municipality has done well with the electorate's money, the mayor has done what was necessary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-08-205	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Andrea Varga-Damm, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How long will you poison your fellow countrymen?" It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2019-07-08-206	Well, if I have to, then I have to accept it because...
u2019-07-08-207	Congresswoman, I would like your answer without comment.
u2019-07-08-208	Yeah.
u2019-07-08-209	Yeah. You have the floor.
u2019-07-08-210	Yeah, what can I do? [[It's a rare blur.]]
u2019-07-08-211	You have the floor.
u2019-07-08-212	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Sewage sludge. Let's learn that word, learn that word in society. But not because it is a new curriculum for folk colleges, but because it is a processed version of the excrement of the population of Croatia. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] That's a processed version of the fecal. And our government with great national self-awareness feels that national self-awareness also includes bringing other countries' feces to our country's territory. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] It's a simple thing like that. Society learns the word of sewage sludge, learns its composition [[Agnes Kunhalmi laughs.]] He learns the composition of excrement in order to learn about the land from which his food will come, because the government pollutes the soil. I wish to stress that I am sure that none of the members of the Fideszes-KDNP members in this room are in favour of this. I'm sure of it. Neither is Secretary of State, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. But they press the button, they say yes to things that are contrary to their principles, just because they signed something at some point. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: How good it is that Jobbik has no principles anymore! Nacsa Lőrinc: At least we have principles!]] Every year, there is no opportunity to not hear which European country is bringing some kind of waste into our country. Why is it that our people have to tolerate the country of landfills for money? One day I told Judit Varga that he might be satisfied with the environmental results, but I didn't, because we're building trash mountains even from the waste we're collecting selectively. And what does the Hungarian man hear? He hears that sewage sludge will be the basis for his food. How much longer will Hungary be poisoned? ! Thank you. [[Applause in the lines of Jobbik, MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2019-07-08-213	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén. Here you go, Deputy Prime Minister.
u2019-07-08-214	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. In part, the technical answer to the question has already been given by the Secretary of State at the previous interpellation, but I think that this is indeed a serious issue. Although EU rules directly applicable to the import of municipal sewage sludge, as well as provisions at domestic and government level, make it possible and important to comply with EU legislation, we will strive and strive to ensure the strictest regulatory framework. However, we do not believe that it is permissible for anyone to think of Hungary as a waste dump in Europe or as a waste recovery workshop in Europe, and therefore we will review domestic sectoral legislation and domestic strategic plans. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Send a message to Zagreb! It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks. Dr. László György Lukács: Is he interested in some papal Fidesz representative? Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-08-215	I thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your reply. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-07-08-216	Deputy Prime Minister! There's a government decree of June 3rd, 50/2001, which determines where you can put something like this. But, Deputy Prime Minister, please reassure me and reassure the people of Hungary that it is not that half of Dalmatia is already owned by the Prime Minister's environment, and it is not that the price of listening to the Croatian government is that we take the sludge from them. Please tell me this isn't the price of silence. I would very much like to be reassured by the Deputy Prime Minister. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-07-08-217	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister.
u2019-07-08-218	I assure the Congresswoman that there is no such aspect. There are quite simply EU directives, there is a domestic regulation, which is, by the way, quite strict, there is a practice, the practice brought up problems that I think are a serious problem. Therefore, I have two things to say to you with responsibility. That political cut he did wasn't justified. And on the matter of content that this issue needs to be reviewed, I have now said, as Deputy Prime Minister, that this issue will be reviewed. Consider that a promise. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-07-08-219	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr.Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What does the Government do to further strengthen the foster care system? Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I would like to ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor.
u2019-07-08-220	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In 2013, the Fidesz-KDNP administration and the parliamentary majority adopted the annual XXXI on the protection of children and child care management. a bill amending laws and certain related laws relating to the transformation of foster family status and special care. The amendment, which entered into force on 1 January 2014, called for by the profession more than twenty years ago, was a significant step forward to promote social prestige in foster parenting. The aim of the introduction of a foster parent's employment relationship was to promote a higher professional, moral and, of course, financial recognition of the foster parent's profession, and to ensure uniform regulation that creates conditions of employment similar to those of employment. This is to ensure that children from their families receive as much family care as possible from foster parents in an environment. Several coordinated measures have led to a steady increase in the proportion of children in foster care compared to institutional care. Last autumn, the Betlak programme, which focuses on the situation of 23,000 children and young adults in child protection care and promotes foster parenting, was launched. The case was brought to the attention of a countrywalk in each county, bringing great success with this countrywalk. As of 1 January 2020, foster parents who take care of young children will also benefit from foster care. Currently, more than 15,000 of the 23,000 children and young adults in the child protection system live in foster homes and are cared for by nearly 5800 foster parents. The government and the Fidesz-KDNP parliamentary majority aim to bring children into child protection care primarily to foster families. [[17.00]] Dear Secretary of State, Child protection can only be successful if it remains family-centred and continues to evolve in the long term. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State what the government is doing to further strengthen the foster care system. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-07-08-221	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Bence Rétvári, please.
u2019-07-08-222	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is in everyone's well - understood interest that as many children as possible, if they cannot live in their natural family, their biological parents, they should be placed in a family environment with foster parents. That is why we increased the support of the foster family network and foster parents by HUF 850 million this year as well. As you have mentioned, after 2010, we have ensured with an employment relationship from January 1, 2010 that what the foster parents receive is valuable. There is a significant increase both in the proportion of children in foster care and in the remuneration of foster parents. If you look at the percentage of children under the age of three in 2010 and 18 who were in foster care and how much remained in institutions, then the proportion of those in foster care and supervision increased from 74 percent to 86 percent for all children. If we go up with one age group, children aged between three and six have increased from 81.5 percent to 91 percent of the children who are in foster care. If you look at the totality of children under 12 years of age, there the number of children in foster care increased from 76 percent to 84 percent. And if you look at the proportion of children with disabilities or chronic diseases, there is also a rise from 51 percent to 59 percent in foster parents. So thank God, in every age group, more and more people are in a family environment and fewer and fewer people are in an institutional environment. This is also due to a significant increase in the remuneration of foster parents. Formerly, in 2010, a child was given 15 thousand forints, and now he receives 70,000 forints a month. He who provided three children received 45 thousand forints in 2010, now receives 132 thousand forints. Thus, there is a significant increase in fees that we have been able to guarantee to foster parents in recent years, and their value is guaranteed, each year the increase is guaranteed. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-07-08-223	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc in return. Here you go.
u2019-07-08-224	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your answer. At the end of last year, the Parliament decided to provide children to foster parents, and the adoption award was also decided at the end of last year. The opposition representatives here, including the big mouth György Szilágyi representative, were also more concerned with self-doing, more important was the honking, more important the beeping, because the Jobbik fraction, the LMP fraction, the MSZP fraction, the Gyurcsány party and the Dialogue did not vote for the stepparent lawn. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: It's a good thing they learned their names!]] and did not vote in favour of the adoption fee. So it's in vain for the voters to turn to you, because you can't be counted on by the foster parents. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-07-08-225	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[György Szilágyi, referring to the Bence of Rétvári, who is about to speak, to Lőrinc Nacsa: Minister of State can button his jacket, see? That's how you speak. That's how it's done.]] Mr Szilágyi, thank you very much for your commentary. Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
u2019-07-08-226	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As I said, we strive to recognize foster parents both financially and in other ways. A special award was set up, the St. Anna for the foster parents' fee. In August 2018, you also referred to it as the start of the foster parenting program, the foster parenting program, in which you went on a trip to the country and managed to recruit hundreds of foster parents, fortunately. And these hundreds of parents must have been able to accommodate hundreds of children at the various stages of the event series. It was also important that we launched a national drawing and small film contest with the title "Impossible No" which provided opportunities for all children and young adults 5-25 years of age in child protection. We have tried to draw attention to this in all areas and to create a noticeable increase in fees. And what the Member said was real is that the opposition did not even have three seconds to vote for this, but rather wanted to cause as much scandal as possible for the evening news broadcasts at Parliament's meeting. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-07-08-227	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr. Gyula Molnár, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question. It's an address. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You're sure of the MSZP!]] The Prime Minister has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2019-07-08-228	I'll take it.
u2019-07-08-229	Congressman, you have the floor.
u2019-07-08-230	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Congressman Lords! Deputy Prime Minister! I think we're an age group. I'm sure you'll remember the,, they're pushing Kahács! The extremely witty radio cabaret, he dominated the Hungarian public speech for decades. Now it's likely that we're here with one of the important parts of football, Videoton, MOL Vidi or MOL White Castle, I can't fully follow. So I would like to ask you about the matter of the Stadium in Fehérvár, and I would like to ask you, through you, the Prime Minister. So, basically, they're pushing Krahács here. But White Castle would have all the potential to live happily and peacefully. The Prime Minister doesn't regret the money, they built a stadium for 14 billion, the players bought and we're here, and this unfortunate city couldn't win the championship. And they're in a situation where they can't play their first championship game here, because they found a bacteria in the water that makes it virtually impossible to receive both players and guests. As far as I know, the players are practically tested every week, they can't even train there anymore, technically they can't go to the stadium. They didn't even apply for the money to make state money for operation, so the city has to contribute 500 million forints to the stadium at all. It seems that the stadium in Fehérvár will not be available for next season. The question is whether there is, will be responsible, what is the idea of this. The object of our real excitement is that we so much want success to reach Fehérvár for once, so if, at least in the first round, the BL match would pass over Montenegro. So, Deputy Prime Minister, the question is that you are responsible for the fact that now more than half a year, even almost three quarters of a year after the transfer, a 14 billion-dollar investment cannot be used in Hungary as a Class I football team. Thank you very much.
u2019-07-08-231	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén. Here you go.
u2019-07-08-232	Dear Congressman, The truth is, in football matters, the Prime Minister is very competent, especially with regard to Fehérvár. [[Defiance from the opposition benches. Agnes Kunhalmi: Great!]] I think the correct answer is that I will give you a detailed briefing on the specific issue next week. Of course, I could say a few words in the case, but the fact is that after asking a specific question on a serious matter, and a specific question, it is fair that you get a detailed and professional answer. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-07-08-233	I thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your reply. Congressman, you have the right to speak.
u2019-07-08-234	You put me in a difficult position, Deputy Prime Minister. I would have had so many good words if you'd said something, at least one wordflower. But anyway, you'll still have that opportunity... [[Dr. Zsolt Semjén: The stadiums are important!]] Yeah. Then I'll have the opportunity to thank you very much. So we will finish the season by reading the answer very carefully, and if we find it in it, we will definitely react. Thank you very much.
u2019-07-08-235	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This is the end of the matter. It is now 5:08 p.m., so Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Does the government support local governments to declare a climate crisis? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén to respond to an urgent public task. I ask Congresswoman, do you accept the person who is responding, or do you ask the Prime Minister for an answer personally?
u2019-07-08-236	Yes, thank you, I accept the response. Unfortunately, this technical little thing here [[He's showing me the microphone in his hand.]] It's lost, so I have to keep it that way.
u2019-07-08-237	Maybe you can borrow some money, Congresswoman. Any fellow Member can give you another [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Do you want one?]] 'Cause it's gonna be a lot easier, and it's gonna be awfully noisy. [[György Szilágyi approaches Erzsébet Schmuck and asks for the microphone and adjusts it.]] Thank you, please put it on your head.
u2019-07-08-238	Thank you very much. We've solved it, it's gonna work...
u2019-07-08-239	You have the floor.
u2019-07-08-240	...yes, the question will sound good. Deputy Prime Minister, the LMP has not long ago developed a proposal to submit proposals for climate change to local government representatives at municipal level, and such a proposal should be adopted by the municipalities as soon as possible. There's obviously a serious reason for that. It is now said at the highest level of the United Nations that there is a climate disaster, and the Secretary-General of the United Nations now declares that every week counts, there is a very big problem. [[17.10]] Maybe you know that June this year was the hottest month ever measured, and this year is expected to be the hottest year. So indeed, climate change is here, Hungary is particularly affected. There are very serious tasks at the Parliament level, but there are also very serious tasks at the level of municipal authorities. Unfortunately, we see that the government is not positive about this issue. We have already submitted a proposal for a decision on a climate crisis so that Parliament can act here, the government can act, and start preparing the climate law. We see, for example, that in Germany, municipalities are starting to draw up their action plans for the climate crisis one by one. And again, I'm bringing the German federal government here, he's changed his position, he says, yes, he stands up for strict climate targets, he's preparing a climate bill, and the latest announcement is that the government wants to join forces with the opposition, people and civilians. My question is, as there is no specific heading in the 2020 budget for the implementation of climate action tasks, how and how the government will start to support this type of activity of the municipalities.
u2019-07-08-241	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén.
u2019-07-08-242	Thank you very much for the question, Congresswoman. The fact is that in terms of urban climate strategies, the government has provided the necessary support, local climate strategies are being prepared, with the government providing HUF 1.5 billion and one and a half billion within the framework of the CUHOP call for proposals. In the call, I am happy to inform you that 238 aid applications have been submitted, with more than HUF 3 billion requested. So the municipalities are preparing their own municipal strategy, which, as you can see, are supported by the government. The fact that the government does not act is not so at all, given that the EU and Member States' targets for emission reductions for 2020 are 20 per cent. Hungary has already done this, and we have done so well in this area, that we can pass on a large number of surplus emission quotas, thereby providing a source for green economic development. With regard to the commitments of 30 and the steps needed to achieve them, our emission reduction commitment by 2030 is a 40% reduction compared to 1990, our commitment to the share of renewable energies by 2030 is 20 percent, and in the area of energy efficiency we undertake to achieve our final energy consumption by 2030 by up to a maximum of 8-10 percent. So I think that we have acted both at national level and in the case of settlements, we have provided the source of the tender, and you can see that the municipalities and the municipalities have also taken advantage of this possibility. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-08-243	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister, for your reply. Congresswoman, you have the floor for rejoinder in one minute.
u2019-07-08-244	Mr Vice-Prime Minister, I hope you can see that HUF 1.5 billion is almost equal to zero for municipal climate protection tasks. The LMP has proposed to the budget that 50 billion, which would also not be enough, but that could have started the preparation of the municipalities. However, I must argue that the government has sufficient and adequate climate policy; I must say that it is quite insufficient. For example, it is insufficient for the government to set a 20% renewable target by 2030, to which, I indicate, a significant part of it is biomass. Biomass has proven to take life away from, for example, nature, so using biomass is quite harmful to boast about renewable energies. I would rather be ashamed to sell our CO2 quota, I would be ashamed because Hungary has moved to a growing career since 2014 [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] CO2 emissions increase by nearly 6 percent.
u2019-07-08-245	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr. Vice-Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2019-07-08-246	Congresswoman, it can always be said that there is little money, of course, but the fact is that the LMP has not come up with anything other than the beautiful wordflowers, compared to this, the Hungarian government has fulfilled its commitments in terms of both the 20s and the 30s, and yet we have secured these billions to enable the settlements to prepare their own programme. I think that we deserve to be praised for this rather than insulted. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-08-247	I thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 5:15 p.m., and we've reached the end of the immediate questioning. We will continue our work by discussing the questions. Dear Parliament, Tamás Csányi, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior: "How will the police profession be attractive? ' The title is given below. Mr Tamás Csányi has the floor.
u2019-07-08-248	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, More and more worrying news is coming from law enforcement workers, some of which also travel through the media, some of which are more of a topic of speech in small communities. One thing is certain: many of our police officers are disemboweling from one day to the next; unfortunately, I could give you examples from my immediate environment. In almost all cases, the grounds for decommissioning are extremely low wages. In January of this year, you, Mr Secretary of State, spoke of an average increase of 5% and painted the pink fog of a 50 percent result over the years. Then how can a significant part of the police's salary move around 150 thousand forints? Is that what makes you proud, Mr. Secretary? Unfortunately, I cannot reassure the workers in this sector, as the situation will only get worse in 2020. In the budget, we saw only a 3 percent increase in inflation, which is still facially, humiliatingly low. The proper question is: when does the government intend to raise the salary base, which has been unchanged for many years: HUF 38 650? At the beginning of June, there was a brief announcement in your press that the increase would take place, but there was nothing concrete about it, so it can only be classified as a calming bluff. On the other hand, Jobbik submitted a significant increase in the salary base for the budget of HUF 60,000, which you canceled in all committees, where the wage increase to improve the quality of life of police officers was voted down with two hands. Dear Secretary of State, It is also difficult for the profession to understand that you have not planned a single penny for the following year to compensate for the over-service, the last time such a shameful case occurred in 2016. How do you think that the already understaffed population will be able to do its job, protect Hungarian citizens, or you will be completely ignored? Have you already given up on making everyday life of Hungarians in rural areas safer? I mean, if there's no proper police, there's no proper security. As we can see, you have already given up on making police work more attractive. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Tell me honestly what you intend to do with the Hungarian police. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-07-08-249	State Secretary Károly Kontra will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-07-08-250	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Today, security is the most important community value. Hungary can be proud of the fact that it has police officers who protect life and wealth, are able to guarantee the safety of everyday life and who have been able to reduce the number of crimes by half in ten years. We have police officers who go to the border to protect the Hungarian families even in the most difficult times, if necessary. The Ministry of Interior continuously monitors the feedback received from the law enforcement staff and cooperates with the Hungarian Law Enforcement Faculty in order to further improve the financial recognition of professionals. The Ministry of Interior, with the involvement of the heads of law enforcement agencies, started all the professional preparatory work last year, as a result of which we can be confident that in the near future there will be an increase in the salary of the law enforcement professional staff. Hungary's draft budget law for 2020 contains resources for sectoral careers and wage measures, which, if decided by the government, could also provide a basis for meaningful progress with regard to professional members of the law enforcement sector. The sacrifice, courage and firm commitment of professionals to order ensure the peace, public order and public security of the Hungarian people. The aim of the Ministry of Interior is to provide all support for professional work. Honourable Congressman, If you really believe that the salary of professional law enforcement personnel should be raised, I would ask you to support the adoption of the 2020 budget on 12 July, this Friday. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-08-251	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zita Gurmai, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Finance a question: "It is harassment at work, ignoring human dignity." Congresswoman Zita Gurmai has the floor. [[17.20]]
u2019-07-08-252	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. As is well known, it is common in the workplace that senior workers abuse their dominant position and put their subordinates in a vulnerable position. This is what the ILO, the International Labour Organisation, intends to put an end to, at its 108th session, to bring the area of violence and harassment at work under international regulation. In order to reduce these, the Convention and Recommendation on violence and harassment in the workplace were adopted. The International Labour Organisation expects Member States to incorporate documents from the tripartite system into their own legislative system. These rules should be reflected in the provisions on employment, OSH and collective agreements. Regulatory, detection and elimination of harassment at work is an increasingly urgent requirement in the world of work. Only a fraction of these cases come to light. Half a year ago, research carried out on behalf of the Female Group of the Hungarian Trade Union Association revealed that 24 percent of those who experienced harassment at work did not report it, and only 14 percent took the liberty of reporting what they saw. In such cases, workers shall not turn to the police or any other authority. This situation must also be changed by the government, so that workers in Hungarian jobs can really feel safe. Active action by the government is needed in order to eliminate harassment at work in Hungary as soon as possible. In cases of sexual harassment at work, we must apply the principle of zero tolerance. I ask Mr. Secretary of State what the government represented in the 100th century. During the ILO meeting at the time of the adoption of the Conventional Recommendation. Who and when did you come up with your point of view? Have the social partners been given the opportunity to draw up a national position? I also ask when you intend to ratify the Convention and recommendation on violence and harassment in the workplace. Or will this also be the case with the Istanbul Convention, which was just recently declared a political hysterical by Viktor Orbán's candidate for the Minister of Justice: Judit Varga? Thank you for your reply, Mr Secretary of State. [[Applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2019-07-08-253	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Sándor Bodó. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-07-08-254	Thank you very much. Mr President, Fellow Members! Congresswoman! Indeed, the success of a workplace, the success of a company, the success of a business, is a clear part of the atmosphere at work. Material conditions are important, but the conditions under which workers can work are at least as important. There is obviously also a regulatory role for the market, but there is also very important legislation: the Law on OSH, the Law on Equal Treatment and the criminal case of harassment are also a category that can help in any case. In this situation, we can provide information on the work carried out for prevention, even on the website of the Ministry of Finance, in connection with the OSH Act. The Equal Treatment Act already clearly contains ban rules and can indeed be brought to trial in the event of infringement. A much more serious case is the legal case of harassment, which is already dealt with in the Criminal Code. In this connection, what does the government do? Well, I can inform you that the national ILO is constantly dealing with this issue; it keeps it on its agenda until now and beyond. I hope that at the Autumn Jubilee Conference, which will not only be a jubilee but also a work conference, we can deal with this story. I can also inform you that the Government of Hungary supported the creation of international standards and voted in favour of the adoption of the Convention and the Recommendation on 21 June 2019. That's what we can do at the moment. This is an area in which we can never lean back, our constant attention and the continuous follow-up of the stories are absolutely justified. Thank you for your concern. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-07-08-255	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Hajdu, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior:. What about the public roads in Budapest? It's an address. Mr László Hajdu has the floor.
u2019-07-08-256	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to ask you a question about inland roads and sidewalks. Today, we voted on the amendments, and it is possible to see that there is no road renovation, road repair in the municipal authorities, nor is there any provision for this type of financing of development tasks at all. I also found a billion dollars only, and there are 3186 municipalities. I only take Budapest as an example. At one time in Budapest, during the Medgyessy-Gyurcsány-Bajnai government, there was target and targeted support, and there were so-called road maintenance standards, not even a variety of normative, even a dust road normative on the roads. There is nothing in this budget right now, and I would really like to ask you that this is the normative method, which at the time, I think, has resulted in not having as many potholes in the city as there is now, perhaps one of the reasons for this is that it has been removed from the budget. The other reason is that its source has been removed, since one source was the vehicle tax, 60% of which is taken by the State, this source is not available. Another source could have been personal income tax. It was also taken from us, so they took 100 percent of it and introduced a new tax, this solidarity tax, which in my case, in my constituency, is 400 million forints in this new budget. So with such a shortage of resources, the city looks like it looks. Any district we go to, all we see are potholes, patches. These could only be removed from the city, where we want tourism, and which is a metropolitan city, based on some kind of central normative and non-subjective decisions. I'll ask the Secretary of State if there's such a plan.
u2019-07-08-257	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-07-08-258	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the state of the roads needs to be improved, and budgetary resources are needed to do so. You say you see a billion forints in total in the budget for improving roads in the country. I must draw your attention to the fact that if we separate the countryside and the capital, in the case of rural settlements we will provide HUF 50 billion per year for the next three years in order to improve the state of small settlements and of roads connecting small settlements and settlements. After finally accepting the comments and lobbying powers of the representatives of the capital, it was also decided that Budapest should have a budget of HUF 10 billion to improve the roads in Budapest, and this is also available in the coming years. Thus, the state in the capital where even the capital city today has non-solid road surfaces, suitable for transport, disappears, and all roads can be covered with solid surfaces within the capital. So that alone is almost 60 billion forints. In addition, the capital city has HUF 2.5 billion available for the renovation of inland roads, bridges, sidewalks, and the maintenance of roads and task financing amounts to HUF 470 thousand per km. In addition, every year the Ministry of Interior will also be invited to tender, which will provide both the metropolitan districts and the municipal authorities with a specific opportunity for road renovation and road surface improvement. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-07-08-259	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question:, Why hasn't a meaningful environmental impact assessment been carried out at Liszt Ferenc Airport? It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-07-08-260	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Deputy Minister, You always argue that when the airport was established in Ferihegy, there has not been an environmental impact assessment in Hungary since then, so there is no need for such an impact assessment. Since the existing installations are also subject to the prior investigation obligation provided that they are subject to 314/2005. a significant amendment is made under the government regulation. [[17 .30]] In the case of these investments, and in the case of environmental hazard, pollution or damage detected by the environmental authority, Article 74 of the Environmental Act. It may require a full or partial review of the operator of the investment. I ask you, Mr Deputy Minister, that you do not think that your change is significant, that between 2002 and 2018, the number of scheduled flights doubled, and the number of passengers almost quadrupled, and the transport of goods has doubled, with huge investments, which, despite technological developments, is inevitably subject to significant environmental pressures. On the basis of all these changes, do you really believe that a prior review or full review is still not justified and legitimate? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2019-07-08-261	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas. You have the floor.
u2019-07-08-262	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you for asking. It's not the first time you've asked me a question like that, we've already discussed that. The obligation to permit environmental protection under the Government Decree on the Environmental Impact Assessment and the Single Environmental Authorisation Procedure covers future investments. This is in line with the requirements of the relevant EU directives, which do not require ex post environmental impact assessment of existing and existing investments. Budapest Airport Zrt. However, in order to assess the impact of Budapest Liszt Ferenc International Airport on the environment, on the basis of a performance assessment carried out in accordance with the Act on General Rules for the Protection of the Environment, the competent environmental authority, i.e. the Office of the Government of Pest County, is authorised to operate on the environment. Budapest Airport Zrt. complies with the noise protection requirements of the airport environmental operating licence. monitoring the noise load of the aerodrome through a noise monitoring system. The control of the Budapest districts most exposed to noise, such as X, XVII, XVIII. covers the district as well as Vecsés and Sitlő. Zrt. send the data of the noise monitoring system to the environmental authority for quarterly monitoring. According to the Office's information, according to noise monitoring data for 2018 and 19 the airport was not subject to a review obligation. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-07-08-263	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister:. Why is Lake Fertő being taken from the locals? It's an address. Congressman Cake Olivio has the floor.
u2019-07-08-264	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I don't know, Mr. Secretary of State, who will answer... On Lake Balaton, we have already seen the danger of tourist development to trees, green areas, reeds. So far, the Fidesz-near entrepreneurs have expanded, thanks to them the luxury apartments and luxury hotels are growing from the green areas of Balaton and the peaceful Zimmer frei. These improvements, on the other hand, are very damaging through a very environmentally damaging process. Now it looks like it's time for Lake Neusiedl. It is true that the state is developing here, but similar megaloman plans can be heard on the shore of Lake Fertő. 30 billion would be built in recreational park, new beach, water playground, camping, restaurant. So far, so good. But the plans include a thousand-ship port in this port currently 200 sailors and a hundred-bedroom hotel [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Do you think it should be built in Austria?]] They're considered very problematic by local people. The hotel would be 11.5 meters tall, it would be three-storey, and the green area would be increased from 20 percent to 30 percent. In addition, the impact assessment sheet attached to the 2017 Construction Code is only half-paged. We find it quite unacceptable that there is a half-page impact study to transform one of the most important lakes in Hungary. From this it seems that they are not in the interests of the people there, but only in terms of tourism. No one is arguing that the area of Lake Fertő needs to be developed, the area needs to be renovated, but at the same time it seems that sustainability aspects are not taken into account. It is also a question of who will be the maintainer of these buildings, who will benefit. Therefore, the local organisation of the Dialogue started collecting signatures, and in a few days we collected hundreds of signatures in order to develop human-scale developments on the shore of Lake Fertő. And I am asking Mr Secretary of State why sustainability aspects are not taken into account in planning, instead of the multi-storey hotel monstrus and the giga port, why pile houses, buffets and boathouses cannot remain. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2019-07-08-265	Dear Parliament, State Secretary Balázs Orbán will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-07-08-266	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The government sided with Sopron and Lake Fertő, and with the hundreds of billions of HUF support that comes to Sopron and the region in the framework of the Modern Cities programme. You can't be happy about that. The local population also benefits from tourism's revival, and the lake finally becomes a worthy colour. In the meantime, the new swimming pool in Sopron is being built, the rehabilitation of downtown and the Gunnery program is also under way. The Fertő lake is one of the most attractive tourist destinations in Hungary, which is finally managed with proper weight. It doesn't make sense why this hurts the Dialogue. The development of the environment of the Sopron-Fertő water plant on the shore of Lake Fertő is achieved from tens of billions of HUF, with 100% government support, as part of the Modern Cities programme, with the aim of providing high quality tourist attractions to Hungarian and foreign visitors by expanding the area of the former water plant. The treasures of Lake Fertő and the opportunities for relaxation in its surroundings have remained hidden from visitors so far due to the lack of previous comprehensive developments. Thanks to the developments, the shoreline of Lake Fertő is renewed with the protection of natural values in our view. The development has a final permit for all environmental and nature conservation issues. For the sake of sustainability, special building engineering solutions were also used, which were approved by the Austrian-Hungarian Water Commission, among other things. The dimensions and architectural solutions of the new buildings were approved not only by the National Planning Council, but also by the Hungarian Council of the World Heritage Council of the Fertő-Nature region. The aim of the development presented above is to widen the circle of those who can exploit, preserve and present the natural values of the unique area. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-07-08-267	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Judit Czunyiné Bertalan, a representative of Fidesz, wanted to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:.The industrial and economic strengthening of our project makes transport infrastructure decisions an increasingly strong and urgent issue, and in what state are the relevant government plans? It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-07-08-268	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Komárom-Esztergom County is one of the most dynamically developing counties. The number of investments and developments arriving has multiplied in recent years. On the labour market, the county is stable, the development effects on the region are extremely positive. However, the industrial park of Környe-Tatabánya, the industrial park of Oroszlány, the Tatabánya-Környe-Russian axis and the Kisbér-Tatabánya axis pass through a national road, thus affecting the population of the municipalities of Vértessomló, Várgestes, Kecskecsked, Bokod, Kömlőd, Dab, Szákszend, Császár in the direction of Kisbánya-Környe-Russian axis. In recent years, traffic has multiplied so much that according to the current measurements of the Hungarian Public Road Komárom-Esztergom County Directorate, the passage of 18 843 units of motor vehicles was measured one day in the Környe settlement on an average day. Today, it can be said that this passing traffic blocks traffic across the area not only in the time of shift changes, but almost all day long, thus causing daily annoyance to people who work in county seats, go to school and go to doctors. The solution to this transit traffic and the organisation of traffic could be the concept of a road bypassing the Surroundings, which has been discussed several times with my fellow Member Bencsik and Mayor Csaba Schmidt in the Ministry. I ask you, Mr Secretary of State, there is a possibility and a chance that we will resolve this issue of economic development and strength, but today's day-to-day difficulties for the people of the neighbourhood and the people who live here in the future. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-07-08-269	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-07-08-270	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The high-quality road network is important for Hungarian people, businesses and the domestic economy, since convenient and fast availability is essential for economic development and living standards. [[17.40]] The Government therefore considers the development of road transport as a priority. One of the main objectives of the following years is to make county-righted cities accessible with a high service-level road network, motorways, highways leading to the border and connecting to the international motorway network. Our aim is also to improve access to technological and industrial centres. The service quality of the road network is rapidly approaching legitimate social expectations over the next period and will increasingly meet the needs of economic operators. In addition to the use of EU funds, we also spend significant amounts on road development investments from the domestic budget. In the road programme between 2016 and 2023 some HUF 3200 billion will be used in the expansion of Hungary's road network, the larger part of which is HUF 1800 billion from Hungary. The programme builds or modernises about a thousand kilometres of motorway and main road sections. Of this, the development of the M1 motorway also affects the village of Környe. Passing through the Surroundings, Magyar Közút Zrt. According to his data, traffic of nearly 20,000 vehicles is indeed a heavy burden for the inhabitants of the settlement. The innovation portfolio agrees with and supports the development need for the construction of the bypass road, including the project in the road programme. In the course of the annual review of the road programme, the indicated development needs will be submitted to the government, and the preparation of the project may begin immediately if a positive decision is taken. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-08-271	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We're at the end of questioning. It's 5:41. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that T/6322 on Hungary's central budget for 2020 The number of votes cast has been wrongly published in the course of the decision on amendment 623 of the bill. The number of votes cast correctly: 53 yes, 116 no, 0 abstentions. Thank you for your attention. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2013 CCXXXII on the amendment of certain public education laws and the provision of national public education textbooks. Discussion of the report before the final vote and the proposal for an amendment before the final vote on the draft law repealing Law. The government referral is T/6457. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Proposal for an amendment by the Legislative Committee before the final vote T/6457/20. I, and T/6457/21, before the final vote. Available on the website. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give you the floor... [[For signal:]] Unfortunately, the representative of the Legislative Committee is not present in the Chamber, so now the representatives' speeches... [[Mónika Dunai enters the Chamber. Interjection: Here he is, here he is.]] Yes, Congresswoman entered the courtroom at this moment. Therefore, the debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, rapporteur for the Legislative Committee. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-07-08-272	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 4 July 2019 the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of certain public education laws and the 2013 CCXXXII on the provision of national public education textbooks. T/6457. and adopted the report before the final vote and the amendment before the final vote by 21 votes in favour, 4 votes against and 4 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill before us is to make public education even more able to fulfil its purpose, to train young people with general education and competitive knowledge, and to give higher financial appreciation to school directors, thereby making the course of institution more attractive to young people and teachers. The proposal provides for the establishment of a supplement to the head of the institution depending on the number of the institution and also provides for the possibility of setting an incentive supplement. It should also be noted that the proposal also includes the possibility of providing target applications for additional tasks for teachers. The draft includes replacing the private learning relationship with the individual working order and allowing it to be granted to a single authority, which ensures a uniform application of the law. In essence, this is a change of concept, which carries the focus of the student's interest. However, the bill also fulfils the legislative task requested by the Constitutional Court to strengthen legal and professional guarantees for children and pupils with integration, learning and behavioural difficulties. The bill amends the follow-up to the compulsory preschool from the age of three, introduced from 2015, and also clarifies the conditions for the transition of the kindergarten school. In addition, it is important to note that from 1 September 2020 full public education will be covered by the provision of free textbooks. This is also our goal to reduce the burden on families who have children even further. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment before the final vote was necessary because, in order to avoid a lack of coherence regarding the applicability of the generally binding requirement for the student's assessment of the student's performance, the introduction of the amending provision for full public education should be decided in the context of the creation of a new National Basic Training Plan, at the same time. I would ask this House to support the proposal before us in the final vote. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-08-273	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We now have speeches from Members. No one came forward in writing. The political groups will be able to speak in 5-5 minutes, with independent representatives speaking in a total of 3 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Brenner Koloman, Jobbik Group.
u2019-07-08-274	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, This salad law does not provide any response to the crisis signs of education indicated by all actors for years, according to both the way it is legislated and the content of most elements, that pupils and teachers are overworked; no XXI. It does not respond to the 100th-century challenge, does not respond to how we integrate the tools and results of digitalisation into learning, does not respond to the fact that the knowledge of foreign languages is not provided by public education for everyone, does not ensure that children from the disengaging social classes are caught up. Of course, the Fidesz elite, thus the elite and their accomplices, solves their problems through private schools of pay-per-view elite education, but these legislative amendments close doors to those members of the middle class who are also not satisfied with the demented public education that you have unleashed on them through the KLIK process, but want something better for their children. This salad law, which is composed of a complete mess, has some of the very positive elements, undoubtedly, but does not respond to all of these questions, has come before us and has been temporarily withdrawn in this whole process, of course, by the unanimous rejection of the communities concerned. Once again, you have not consulted with anyone, my fellow Members from Fidesz. In addition, the right to comment by teachers, parents and national authorities is abolished, say, in the election of the director, which has been a rather weak driver's license, and now it is being abolished, and they are making governors of the school directors in practice. [[17.50]] And let's face it, there's no education quality development that's gonna come from the fact that no one can interfere with who practically has a full head of a school. Jobbik, as a national ethnic party, therefore, stands in favour of the teaching body, parents, student self-governments and ethnic authorities having a meaningful say in what is going on in public education. I understand it's embarrassing that if you say 95 percent of the faculty doesn't vote for the Fidesz party candidate, and then there are embarrassing scenes, but I also understand that with this, let's say, for a few seconds, I'd like to take this awkward moment out of the system. The question must therefore be asked whether this package will increase the quality of education in Hungary, increase efficiency and increase fairness. It is quite clear that according to the education efficiency index, Hungarian teachers deserve all respect and sweat blood somehow make Hungarian public education work. Again, I would like to point out that nearly half of the pedagogical society is over 50 years of age, and within years, a wave of retirement will shake the foundations of the public education system. However, in terms of fairness, the proportion of students who perform well despite their very poor family background is far below the OECD average in Hungary. Does this package improve their ability to perform better? Of course not. So with this package of amendments to the Public Education Act, you are once again going to force through Parliament without any substantive agreement a salad law that will not solve any issue that really affects people's everyday life, the parents, pupils, teachers' everyday life. And I think that instead of outrage, it is no coincidence that teachers are trying to organize another strike; of course, in addition to your effective countermeasures, in which all legal and other means are used, intimidation is used so that the pedagogical society does not raise its voice. The fact that a parent is at the mercy of his child, because everyone wants what's best for his child, and then, of course, he gets in the line that the school principal tells him and collects the signatures for the election, I'll just keep that in mind. Shame on you, it's unacceptable. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-07-08-275	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Hiller, Vice-President of Parliament, on behalf of the MSZP Group. You have the floor, Mr. Vice President.
u2019-07-08-276	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Dear Secretary of State, I listened to the woman who gave the opinion of the Legislative Committee, who spoke clearly and clearly. That's why it's worth translating. The reason we're here is because you wanted to strangle alternative schools without knowing what you were doing. We managed to incorporate the virtually complete intellectual destruction of the Waldorf schools into the preliminary amendment, which was not done by saying that we do not need Waldorf schools, therefore we cannot; but one of the key elements of this international system, which happens to be that the student, the child's performance, not simply with one digit 2, 4, 3, 5, 1, is presented with a detailed text evaluation of progress, change, providing actual information to the parent, the educator. This was succeeded in the previous amendment, as she said, in fact, to abolish it, which would have made it possible to have a school whose name tag says that Waldorf, only the Waldorf method, would have become completely inapplyable and unnecessary. There has been no change in the design and implementation of the Waldorf method since last week. Last week, they didn't know he was being strangled with this law amendment, and now they know, so they had to come here again and talk about this law amendment. The thing is, there's been a total professional mistake. It's worth admitting. They have two thirds, but two thirds weren't enough to learn what Waldorf School is while they're holding an entire ministry. It's real. And if we are here, yes, once again, and if something is screwed up, then perhaps we should bring it back again, then we will say again that their amendment of the law will also lead the Hungarian public education in an amazing professional direction, which you call and hold as a public education. First of all, it is ordered for each Hungarian school mature child to know when he will be a school maturer. From Nagykanizsa [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Yes. Congratulations.]] Until Nyíregyháza, they will state by a decree, a paragraph, when all Hungarian children will be educated. In addition, they do not simply tell me, but they also tell me what the method of this is, so I am obliged to quote the Secretary of State: it is obvious that this is a good thing in all cases where it is justified, but it is not a good trick, that the parent asks him to see his own child as not yet a school-grown trick; otherwise, the office will not be a new agency to be organised, the Education Office, which can be considered on this matter, obviously on the basis of expert opinions. In English: please let us think about this in a lifelike way! A six - year - old child lives in Zalalövő. His father and mother raise him with honor. They think she'll be better off in kindergarten for another year, so they want her to go to school in a year. They simply want to raise their children. You will forbid this with a paragraph, but this will be done by the Board of Education in Budapest, according to expert opinion, deciding whether this child is mature or not in Zalalövő. [[György Szilágyi: This is in the law.]] What do you think, really? ! This whole thing, if we really break it down and make it lifelike... then unlikely things will come up. It's unlikely, because fortunately we're different, and our children are different, and it's great that they're different! Everyone has a different kind of talent. And I personally and sincerely hope that this templateization, perhaps from among you, whose children are just as important and different as my children, will see it, so I will never, ever, ever accept and support this proposal. Thank you so much for listening.
u2019-07-08-277	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, representative of the Democratic Coalition. Here you go.
u2019-07-08-278	Thank you very much. Dear House, I'd like to pick up where Congressman Hiller left off. Obviously, what happened was that they woke up late, obviously the many types of professional arguments that we said here in the debate, for example, in relation to the paragraph that they are proposing to amend, precisely to leave, and let go of their ears, as they let go of the protests of professional organisations, trade unions and interest representatives in these matters. It is very typical, and I am sorry to mention this, that the rapporteur has given a very different explanation here than is otherwise indicated in the justification for the proposal before the final vote. There they refer to the interests of students with special educational needs and not to the National Basics, but, of course, this proposal is correct in itself, because it takes an absurd and unnecessary rule out of the law, it takes the rule that if the child does not want it, the school does not want it, nor does the parent want it, it also has to give the child a grade. This absurd rule is now being taken out of the bill by this amendment before the final vote. It's okay, but can't you just read the rest of the bill you passed? What the government originally put in it and what the government did not dare to put into it, but you voted in this law in an amendment introduced by the Legislative Committee at our previous meeting. [[18.00]] If, for example, the aim, or what Minister Hiller mentioned, is not to destroy alternative schools, or not to destroy children who have special educational needs for such reasons, as stated in the text of the amendment before the final vote, or even to wait for the new National Basics Plan to be adapted to, and then to make new legislation for the new National Basics, as the congresswoman said, because this is also a perfectly reasonable aspect, all three perfectly reasonable aspects explain to me only why they insist on the administrative and pedagogical absurdity that has been put into this law in the latest proposal of the Legislative Committee, and which is, in fact, that it should be adapted to both mid-term curriculum and subjects for all schools to the framework doctrines of the National Basics. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Now they're forcing these schools to rewrite their master plan, while, by the way, we'll have a new national basic curriculum and a new master plan. If we ignore everything else, I said a practical almost ugly thing of an amazing size; let's just say it was thoughtless, and then I put it in a very low-key way. So it doesn't make any sense, to put it this way; someone remembered that it was a matter of order, and it doesn't matter how much damage it causes. But if you have been able to do so, and I highly appreciate that, in another rule, you will understand the damage that this rule will certainly do to our fellow Members in Fidesz, whose children are going to such an alternative school, and may have told you about the damage they are doing to these institutions, then you should have the same level of insight in this rule. Do not put this proposal to the vote on Friday. We will be happy to support the re-vote, to postpone the final vote again, and to look at this point. It's useless to cause problems and destroy schools. In fact, I do not think that you have bad intentions, but I just assume that those ministerial officials or pro-government representatives who have prepared and voted for this do not know in detail how alternative schools operate, do not know exactly how this is done. I understand that perfectly, not everyone can be a politician or an educational person, but I would ask you to listen to at least those people in your ranks and those experts from the Ministry who really know how to do this. Let me also add that such a derogation has been subject to a ministerial permit, so you are taking away the right to grant a derogation in these areas from the Minister, your own minister. Well, I don't have much faith in your minister and your secretary of state, but at least you can trust them if you support this government, which is bad taste, by the way. Thus, the professional apparatus behind the Minister and the Minister considered that a framework course, an alternative master's plan as a whole, was in line with the National Basics Plan or not. Now you want to make a law. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] To their own minister and ministry, how to do this. That doesn't make any sense. Thank you very much.
u2019-07-08-279	Thank you very much, Congressman Gergely Arató. I would like to ask that there is another person on the part of the political groups and of the independent Members who would like to comment. [[For signal:]] Yeah, two of them are asking for the floor. [[György Szilágyi rises to speak. Defiance and interrogation from the ranks of the governing parties to György Szi-lágyi: 15 seconds!]] First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai [[Defiance.]] Fidesz.
u2019-07-08-280	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Even after the submission of a bill, in those weeks and days, the discussions and debates that serve to improve a law continue to take place. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Not with the people involved!]] This recent example is a good proof of that. Before submitting the bill, the State Secretary, the Ministry, always conducts the necessary consultations that are required by the law. Obviously, that's how we got this bill on our table. But, yes, we have always emphasised this, and I am pleased that this has come up, and Brenner Koloman and István Hiller have also drawn attention to the reasons for the discussions and the current debate and the amendment proposal, in a positive way. Yes, there are times when Members and even committees and factions are approached by various professional organisations, institutions, and I myself am an educator, and I am aware of the Waldorf method, and if we can do so, it is our duty to make the proposal better. That's what just happened. I think that this is a forward-looking and good thing that before the final vote, you have the courage to submit to the government an amendment which is a result of these debates and makes the basic proposal better. I also noticed in István Hiller's speech, but also in Gergely Arató, that this was appreciated. I ask everyone, because we are here in Parliament regardless of the parties, that the proposals, until the debate is over and the final vote is taken, always if we can make it better. That is what is happening now, and I ask you to support this proposal, at least this part. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-08-281	Thank you, Congresswoman. Congressman György Szilágyi has 15 seconds. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-08-282	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. István Hiller explains that it is not in the best interests of children if it is not for the kindergarten educator and the parent to decide whether he is mature at the age of six, and Mr Péter Cseresnyés, State Secretary, shakes his head that this is not the case in the law. [[Péter Cseresnyés: I didn't shake!]] Yes, Mr. Secretary. [[Peter Cseresnyés: Don't lie!]] That's what's in the law, and I don't know if you don't know it's in the law, how you're gonna vote responsibly on it. [[Peter Cseresnyés: Don't lie! The president's ringing the bell.]] It's a shame they're like that. [[Péter Cseresnyés: You lie, the shame of lying! Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-07-08-283	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment. I do not see an application; the debate is closed. The decisions will take place at our meeting on Friday. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári waving to the president: Can I still comment?! Intercoms from the opposition.]] Honourable Parliament! Following the individual tax laws [[Gergely Arató: I told you that trust in the Ministry has ceased!]] and other related laws necessary to amend EU harmonisation obligations [[Dr. Bence Rétvári to the opposition representatives: You are the only ones who can speak, I am not! Interventions from opposition representatives.]] the Commission's reports submitted and the debate on the draft amending proposal. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] The government referral is T/6349. Number 1 and the Commission's non-autonomous texts received in the Parliament's IT network... [[Zoltán Balczó intervenes.]] Mr Balczó, there is a difference between Brussels and Budapest. Thank you very much... [[Lajos Rig: There are many differences, the Secretary of State was unable to answer. Zoltán Balczó: The Secretary of State wanted to say something, I only indicated it! That he didn't get a word in, that's all I said. Excuse me, Mr. President.]] I didn't hear from the Secretary of State. I looked on the screen. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's a little criticism of the Ministry, but that's okay.]] I declare that this proposal is being discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ovadi, rapporteur of the committee.
u2019-07-08-284	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 4 July 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/6349 amending certain tax laws and other related laws necessary for EU harmonisation obligations. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 23 votes in favour and 1 vote in favour, with 9 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The regulation prevents double taxation situations arising from different legal regulations in the Member States and taxes certain incomes of businesses leaving Hungary. In addition, the scope of capital operations to be included in the transfer pricing adjustment will be extended. In relation to the Directive, small business tax rules will also be amended, the eligible cost of energy efficiency investments will be determined, the eligible cost will be the value of energy efficiency investment and renovation instruments that will only help to achieve higher energy efficiency levels in the future. [[18.10]] On the basis of the proposal, it is clarified what the obligation to increase the tax base applies in the event of withdrawal of capital. In the case of withdrawal of funds as required by the Union, the amount of the market value of the transferred assets and activities at withdrawal, reduced by its calculated registration value at withdrawal or its corresponding value, shall increase the tax base. The obligation to increase the tax base exists if, on the basis of the provisions of the law, the grounds for withdrawal do not give rise to an increase in the tax base equivalent to that increase. The proposal provides for further technical improvements, clarifies a number of references, indicates the full name of Council Directive 2010/24 as well as linguistic improvements. Dear House, The bill before you contains forward-looking provisions on EU harmonisation aspects of tax regulations, and I therefore call on my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-08-285	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak now. [[For Izer Norbert:]] At the end. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, So at the end of the day, you will have a ten-minute timeframe for the Secretary of State. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I don't see any names on the screen, no applicants. I would like to ask if someone would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application, so the debate is closed. And now I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2019-07-08-286	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, On 4 June 2019 the Government submitted to Parliament the T/6349 amending certain tax laws and other related laws as a result of EU harmonisation obligations. Bill No. 1. During the debate on the bill, no motion by representatives was tabled. The proposals supported by the Economic Commission and the Legislative Committee specify the detailed rules for determining the tax liability to be paid in the event of withdrawal of capital from Hungary. In the case of withdrawal of capital in accordance with Union requirements, the taxable income will be the part of the market value of the asset concerned at withdrawal, reduced by the value of its tax records. The Economic Committee's proposed amendment also provides for further technical improvements in relation to the Union's harmonisation obligation. With regard to visual team sports support, the proposal supported by the Legislative Committee will eliminate the self-force obligation for the approved sports development programmes of amateur sports organisations and visual team sports foundations with a value of more than HUF 300 million in real estate investment for sports purposes. The amendment concerns only those organisations that do not employ professional athletes or investments that have limited economic use for investments. The change concerns programmes which have not yet started or have already started in substance, but it is possible to extend the sport development programme for at least two years. Honourable Members, Among the proposals supported by the Economic Commission and the Legislative Committee, the proposed amendments to the Act on International Administrative Cooperation on Taxation and Other Public Burdens are essentially for codification purposes. In addition, in relation to cross-border tax planning schemes, the rule on automatic exchange of information has been added to serve the more efficient functioning of the provisions. Dear House, In light of what has been said, I call for the support of honourable Members for the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-08-287	Thank you, Secretary of State Izer Norbert. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place at our meeting on Friday. We now have the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain tax laws and other related laws and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal. The government referral is T/6351. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ovadi, rapporteur of the committee.
u2019-07-08-288	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 4 July 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/6351 amending certain tax laws and other related laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 23 votes in favour, 4 against and 6 abstentions. Dear Parliament, With the bill before you, the government, together with the economic protection action plan, will continue the tax reduction policy launched from 2010, which will reduce the rate of small business tax from 13 per cent to 12 per cent as of 1 January 2020, the simplified business tax will cease to apply from 1 January 2020 and will cease to be charged to corporate tax, income tax on energy suppliers and the innovation contribution will reduce the investment threshold for the SME title of the development tax reduction in several stages from 2019 onwards. The proposal also includes the reduction of the VAT rate for accommodation services and the introduction of a tourism development contribution for this service as from 1 January 2020. The bill introduces a new tax base benefit in the Sija Act, under which mothers who have given birth or adopted at least four children and are raised in their own household are exempt for life from income from work. Dear House, T/6351 amending certain tax laws and other related laws. The bill contains positive provisions for Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses, which, I think, is eligible for everyone, so I ask my honourable fellow Members to support the motion tabled. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-08-289	Thank you, Congressman Péter Ovadi. I'll ask the author if he wants to speak now or at the end. [[On the mark of Norbert Izer:]] Not now. Thank you very much, Secretary of State Izer Norbert. No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. I give the floor to the Bulgarian ethnic advocate Varga Simeon, the rapporteur of the committee of Hungarian ethnicities related to the debate, who presents the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language, and then translates them into Hungarian, within a six-minute time frame.
u2019-07-08-290	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на Малцинствената комисия в Унгария и involving моето име. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and myself, to welcome you. As an advocate, I would like to express the opinion of our committee. T/6351. The detailed discussion of the bill amending the individual tax laws and other related laws of our committee is subject to the provisions of the house rules of Article 32. Paragraph 2 and paragraph 36 § 5 has conducted and formulated its opinion as a committee related to the debate. [[18.20]] It is important to mention that, although the bill does not directly affect nationalities, the National Assembly, on its proposal, is still discussing it as a nationality item. Our Commission welcomes this good practice. Dear Parliament, At its meeting on 24 June 2019, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary decided by 12 votes in favour, without abstention or vote, not to propose an amendment, to support the proposed bill and to propose its adoption to Parliament. Thank you for your attention. Благодаря завашето внимание! [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2019-07-08-291	Thank you, Varga Simeon Spokesman. Dear Parliament, The speakers will now take part in the time-frames on the agenda on the table. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I'll ask if anyone wants to comment. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State Izer Norbert, who will certainly tell you his thoughts.
u2019-07-08-292	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, 15 motions were tabled during the debate, each by the LMP Group. The LMP Group has now made its proposal for the restoration of the fixed personal income tax system for many times, but this time they have not updated the figures in it, and they have referred to an earlier minimum wage. So we see here that it would have required a little more preparation for the bill to be tabled. Of course, we still cannot support the proposal, as it is in fundamental contradiction with the main direction of the government's tax policy: maintaining a proportionate, single-key taxation, combined with the elements supporting families with children and foster families. We continue to firmly believe that we are on the right track when we increasingly shift the focus of taxation to the taxes on consumption and strive to reduce the level of taxes and withdrawals on income. It is also incompatible with the government's policy to initiate the recovery of the pension contribution ceiling. This would, in effect, result in the re-introduction of degressive contributions, which would increase the administrative burden, while reducing not only the income of the pension fund but also the amount of the later pensions of the persons concerned in a negative direction. We cannot support the withdrawal of the possibility for employees of international sports organisations established in Hungary, the opt-out of taxation under the rules of the simplified public burden-sharing contribution. Each international sport organisation has a significant economic interest in promoting its settlement in Hungary, and the proposed amendment would only give up public burdens that would otherwise not be created if the sport organisation did not settle in Hungary. The measure will benefit the budget, as conference tourism is expected to increase significantly, and this will further improve the performance of the Hungarian economy, in addition to the public costs paid for employees, by increasing the number of guest nights. We are committed to ensuring the tax exemption of certain benefits linked to the organisation of international sporting events in an international contract, so we cannot ignore the introduction of them into the law. Furthermore, there were no proposals from either the LMP Group aimed at amending laws that were not included in the submitted bill, so in addition to the proposal to introduce the noise charge, we were not able to support certain amendments to the environmental product fee bill. We were also not in a position to support the LMP motion which would have left the extension of the local construction and land tax exemption of publicly owned real estate, typically non-profit organisations, because the exemption is precisely intended to facilitate the public activities of that organisation. We have also rejected the proposal to abandon the expansion of the tourism development contribution, given that the contribution is a dedicated source of tourism development, which is a priority economic policy objective. The LMP also suggested introducing two rates of corporation tax: a tax rate of 9 per cent up to HUF 500 million and a tax rate of 20 per cent above. The single-key corporate tax system is the key to Hungary's competitiveness, which can have a positive impact in conjunction with measures to support investment. The government's tax policy objective is clear: the role of traffic and consumption-type taxes should be increased, while the role of income taxes should be reduced. To this end, this proposal is not in line and we have not been able to support it. Among the proposals supported by the Economic Commission and the Legislative Committee, proposals concerning personal income tax include clarifications to assist in the application of the law. As regards the local business tax, the operator applying a different business year from the calendar year also maintained the business tax add-on under the rules in force for its business year starting in 2019. In view of the liquidity interests of the municipalities, the government supported this proposal. In addition, we supported the motion that, from 1 January 2020, the local government tax authorities of the place of establishment of the entrepreneurs and the local government tax authorities of the establishment they notified should receive the notification, registration and change notification data on a daily basis, not for the two weeks set out in the bill. This results in more efficient, up-to-date tax administration work and records with the municipal tax authority. According to the amendment supported by the Economic Committee, in the case of development tax relief, businesses should be able to keep a headcount instead of at least HUF 3 billion in investments worth HUF 1 billion in present value and HUF 1 billion in the area of the beneficiary municipality and, in the case of investments by small and medium-sized enterprises, taking into account the labour market situation. This obligation applies to the fact that, for four tax years, the average number of employees employed by the taxpayer should not fall below the average number of employees calculated from the data of the three tax years preceding the start of the investment. In the context of the abolition of the tax advance obligation, the threshold for the monthly quarterly tax advance to be offered to a beneficiary is increased from 50 per cent of the amount of the tax advance to 80 per cent. This amendment is necessary in order to ensure that the timing of the aid is more balanced than at present. The amendment, supported by the Committee on Economic Affairs, makes, in addition to this, proposals to clarify corporate tax in relation to group corporate tax entities and trust foundations. In the light of what has been said, I call on honourable Members to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-08-293	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Izer Norbert. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place at our meeting on Friday. It is now up to CXXXIII of 2005 on the rules for the protection of persons and property and private investigators. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. T/6552 submitted by Gergely Gulyás, Máté Kocsis, Zsolt Nyitrai, János Halász fidesz MEPs and MEP Lőrinc Nacsa KDNP. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Nyitrai, rapporteur of the committee.
u2019-07-08-294	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 4 July 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed T/6552 amending the Law on the Protection of Persons and Property and the Rules of Private Investigators. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report were adopted by 23 votes to one, with eight abstentions. Dear Parliament, Our country, Hungary, is home to several major festivals. Many of these events are internationally famous, and crowds travel here because of this. Every year, tens of thousands of events take place across the country, the quality and safety of which proclaims the good news of Hungary worldwide. However, the strengthening of international terrorism calls for further steps to be taken to ensure that the young people involved can enjoy and relax as safely as possible. The proposal before us provides a more effective opportunity to prevent, detect and help identify and capture wanted persons. The draft obliges the organizers to record the personal data of the participants in music events with tickets linked to a change of tickets of more than 25,000 persons. [[18.30]] The provisions concerning data processing have been agreed with the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, which have passed the test of strict Hungarian data protection rules. The solutions contained in the bill have been developed in the light of the proposals made by stakeholders. Our country is one of the safest countries in the world, and we want it to stay that way. The draft amending proposal contains the Commission's proposal to close the committee's detailed discussion. The main purpose of the amendment is to ensure that, if the visitor's personal data is pre-recorded electronically, the facial image can be recorded before entering the mass event and at the place of the mass event. However, the controller is also obliged to record other personal data in advance. Dear Parliament, Recreation and security serve this purpose, which is what the proposal before us seeks to achieve. I call on my fellow Members to support this proposal in order to achieve these objectives. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-07-08-295	Thank you, Congressman Zsolt Nitrai. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[Zsolt Nitrai says no.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, Does anyone from the government wish to speak? [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: I, I...]] No. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I'll ask if someone would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see a candidate. The debate is closed. I ask the present Zsolt Nitrai, who wishes to comment on behalf of the author. [[Zsolt Nitrai says no.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place at our meeting on Friday. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of the heading of the central budget and the debate on the draft amending proposal follow up. H/6543 submitted by the Economic Committee The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Ovadi, rapporteur of the committee.
u2019-07-08-296	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 4 July 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment to the central budget heading of H/6543. A proposal for a decision. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 21 votes in favour, 9 votes against. Dear Parliament, T/6359 amending certain laws necessary for the restructuring of the institutional system and the financing of the R &amp; D and innovation system. The Eötvös Loránd Research Network will be established with effect from 1 August 2019 and will be formed from 1 September 2019 by the offices of research institutes and supported research groups under the direction of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. Control organ permissions over research sites are exercised by the Secretariat of the Eötvös Loránd Research Network. The main reason for the restructuring of the institutional system and funding of the Hungarian R &amp; D and innovation system was the fact that resources are currently largely fragmented between higher education institutions, research centres belonging to the MTA and sectoral institutions supervised by different ministries. In the new structure, Hungary's Government provides additional resources for the Hungarian RDI, as well as for basic and applied research, especially for the competitiveness of the country, thereby increasing the scope and extent of the grants that researchers can obtain in the form of applications. Ladies and gentlemen, The government's aim is to make Hungary a leading research, development and innovation performance at European level, since today countries that are able to and want to respond to changes can be the most successful. That is why I call on my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-07-08-297	Thank you, Congressman Péter Ovadi. I'll ask Sándor Hadházy to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-07-08-298	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The H/6543 in front of you. The Eötvös Loránd Research Network will be established on 1 August 2019 with a proposal for a decision amending the title of the central budget, which will be formed from 1 September 2019 by the research institutes and the offices of the supported research groups under the direction of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. Control organ licenses over research sites will be exercised by the Eötvös Loránd Research Network. The use of knowledge as a resource has assessed the role of universities and research institutes and therefore raises a legitimate need to operate them effectively. The implementation of the principles agreed jointly by the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and the ITM has put the amount of appropriations to be redeployed on a new basis compared to that contained in the submitted proposal of the Kvtv., resulting in a change in the budgetary structure to be applied. Based on mutually agreed professional arguments, the amount of appropriations to be transferred from the MTA chapter will be reduced by HUF 86 million and 601,000 for 2019 without the deterioration of the relative budgetary position of the Eötvös Loránd Research Network Chapter and the Eötvös Loránd Research Network Secretariat, while ensuring the stable, predictable and budgetary independence of both the MTA and the Eötvös Loránd Research Network Chapter. Dear Parliament, In the national R &amp; D and innovation strategy, the government aims to increase Hungary's R &amp; D expenditure to 1.8 per cent of GDP by 2020 and to 3 per cent by 2030. Although the amount of RDI expenditure has been constantly increasing in Hungary since 2003, a significant increase in resources is also necessary to reach the 2020 target. Businesses have also contributed to the total R &amp; D expenditure by increasing volumes since 2008. The 2017 HUF 272.5 billion amounted to 52.7 percent. The proposal therefore establishes the central budget chapter of the Eötvös Loránd Research Network and establishes the Eötvös Loránd Research Network Secretariat in the new chapter. By 31 August 2019, the Institutes of the Research Network managed by the MTA will be transferred from a budgetary point of view to the newly created Eötvös Loránd Research Network. In this context, the Secretariat of the MTA, which has performed management tasks so far, and in close connection with this, shall transfer the pro rata part of the appropriations allocated to the Eötvös Loránd Research Network Secretariat in proportion to the management organ function provision of the MTA Facility Management Centre. Dear Parliament, Since 2010, Hungary's Government has always paid particular attention to the appropriate support for research and development. The proposal before you also serves such purposes, to which I would ask for your support. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-07-08-299	Thank you very much, Congressman Sándor Hadházy. I'll ask if someone from the government wants to comment. State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[18.40]]
u2019-07-08-300	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, We support the proposal for a decision before us, because the transformation of the institutional system and funding of Hungarian R &amp; D and innovation is an essential prerequisite for Hungary's competitiveness, sustainable economic growth. The government increased the amount of funds spent in this area by HUF 32 billion in the Economic Protection Action Plan, which is already reflected in the draft budget for next year. The Hungarian government finances significant improvements and provides significant additional resources in order to improve the country's competitiveness. The adoption of this decision will contribute to the establishment of a single institutional system and financing of research and development and innovation, to the more effective utilisation of results, and I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support the resolution proposal with their votes. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-08-301	Thank you, Secretary of State Cseresnyés. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I'll ask who wants to take the opportunity to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'll ask Sándor Hadházy to comment now. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place at our meeting on Friday. The Commission's report on the adoption of the report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2017 follows a debate. H/6544 submitted by the Judicial Committee. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[For signal:]] It says yes. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey KDNP.
u2019-07-08-302	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Judicial Committee shall have the floor of the House Rule 84. At its meeting on 2 July 2019 as a designated committee pursuant to paragraph 3 of Article 3 of the Act, H/6544 held the adoption of the 2017 accounts of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. The detailed discussion of the proposal for a decision. In the context of the debate, the committee examined the House Rule 44 of the Decision. § 1 and unanimously stated that the proposal was in line with the rules of the House, and therefore did not submit an amendment closing a detailed debate. Ladies and gentlemen, Please support the proposal for a resolution and at the same time the adoption of the report. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-07-08-303	I thank the rapporteur for his speech. I would like to inform you that at the end of the debate, if you wish to speak to him, you will have nine minutes. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I'll ask who wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Therefore, Honourable Parliament, the debate is closed. I'd like to ask the author if you'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place at our meeting on Friday. Dear Parliament, The Commission's report on the adoption of a report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2018 follows a debate. H/6545 submitted by the Judicial Committee. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. I would like to ask Mr Imre Vejkey, who is present from the rapporteur's side, if he would like to speak. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-07-08-304	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Judicial Committee shall have the floor of the House Rule 84. At its meeting on 2 July 2019, H/6545 held as a designated committee pursuant to paragraph 3 of Article 3 of the Act on the adoption of the 2018 accounts of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. The detailed discussion of the proposal for a decision. In the context of the debate, the committee examined the House Rule 44 of the Decision. § 1 and unanimously stated that the proposal complied with the provisions of the house rules and did not submit an amendment closing a detailed debate. Ladies and gentlemen, Please support the proposal for a resolution and at the same time the adoption of the report. Again, thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] At its meeting on 2 July 2019 as designated Committee pursuant to paragraph 1 of this Article, H/6545 held a meeting of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights on the adoption of the 2018 accounts of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. The detailed discussion of the proposal for a decision. In the context of the debate, the committee examined the House Rule 44 of the Decision. § 1 and unanimously stated that the proposal complied with the provisions of the house rules and did not submit an amendment closing a detailed debate. Ladies and gentlemen, Please support the proposal for a resolution and at the same time the adoption of the report. Again, thank you for your kind attention. (Applause in the ranks of the governing parties. )
u2019-07-08-305	Thank you, Commission President Imre Vejkey. Dear Parliament, I'll ask him if he wants to speak on behalf of the government... [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] Secretary of State says no. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. However, I give the floor to the Serbian ethnic advocate Alexov Lyubomir, the rapporteur of the committee of Hungarian ethnicities related to the debate, who presents the first sentences of his speech in the language of nationality, and then translates them into Hungarian.
u2019-07-08-306	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Poštovani Predsednice! Poštovana Skupštino! Mnogo puta mi pade na um, a posebno kada je na dnevnom redu izveštaj Zaštitnika građana, da nekon nekoliko godina rada je postalo prirodno da pripadnici narodnosti koriste svoj maternji jezik priliokom obraćanja Parlamentu na plenarnoj sednici. Ovu činjenicu ne smatram privilegijom, već kao resultat zajedničkog razmišljanja i rada. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In particular, during the debate on the report of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his deputies, it occurred to me many times that after so many years, it was natural for ethnic advocates to speak in their mother tongue at the plenary session of Parliament. I am not treating this fact as a privilege, but as a result of the increasing number of steps we are taking together on this path. The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary as a committee on the subject of the debate is set out in Annex 10/2014 on certain house rules. Decision No 44-45. H/6545. The detailed discussion of the proposal for a decision. H/6545 on the adoption of a report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2018. Having examined the proposal for a decision No 44, it concluded that it complied with the house rules. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary does not submit a proposal for a Commission amendment closing a detailed debate, and the committee closed the detailed debate on the proposal for a decision on 1 July 2019. The proposal for a decision adopting the report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2018 is proposed to the Parliament for adoption. On the basis of the report on the 2018 activity, the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary assessed the work of the Commissioner and his alternates and his cooperation with the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary as meaningful and effective. The Committee on Nationalities in Hungary welcomes the social awareness-forming and enlightening activities that the Commissioner and Deputy Commissioners of Fundamental Rights represented wholeheartedly in 2018. [[18.50]] Their activities have greatly contributed to a more balanced assessment of nationalities in Hungary, bringing the history and culture of nationalities to the majority society. Their identity and commitment have been a guarantee in the area of the enforcement of nationality rights. Trusting in further cooperation, I wish you every success in your work on behalf of myself and members of the minority committee. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-07-08-307	Thank you, Mr Lyubomir. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I'll ask if someone would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr President of the Commission, Mr Imre Vejkey.
u2019-07-08-308	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, thanks to the express support of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, H/6545. I would like to thank you for the proposal for a decision, and I would like to thank you for what you have added as a reason. At the same time allow us to thank Mr László Székely, Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates for their work over the past six years. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-07-08-309	Thank you, Congressman Imre Vejkey, President of the Commission. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place at our meeting on Friday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr Imre László, representative of DK, applied for a statement entitled About the CSÓTANYFRONT. You have the floor, Congressman, within a five-minute time frame.
u2019-07-08-310	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to talk about a case in which the irresponsibleness, inertia and damage to the fidesz leadership of the country, the capital and my narrower country, Újbuda, are reflected. For months, we have been talking about the invasion of rats in Budapest, and I note it in vain, because the rats are happily and undisturbed, and they continue to breed and rally. It's a shame that instead of rats, hedgehogs didn't flood the capital, they're not just kinder animals, but they've been eating up cockroaches that have been swarming with reality lately. However, rats are not insect eaters, so they have no use for them. They certainly didn't sign an attack contract with the cockroach army. And those of us staying in military terms took NewBuda. The problem was noticeable last year, but the situation became unsustainable with the warming in May. However, no action is taken, and citizens are mostly not even given an answer to their complaints, or if so, it is only pointing at each other. For example, last year, a local citizen e-mailed the problem to his Fidesz municipal representative, who deserves to be mentioned by name, his name is Miklós Gyorgyevich, and of course he did not move the staff of his ears. The complainant did not give up, he was on the phone looking for district city management, where he was informed that the case was a matter for the capital. So he turned to the operating department of the capital, but there was no response. Meanwhile, the weather became cooler, the problem temporarily eased, but in spring our complainant was forced to continue his efforts. This time he was briefed to look for the local government's road manager, and from there again came the answer that the capital was competent in the case, and that was the end of the circle. Dozens of citizens report similar cases of Kafka's pen. Where they did so, the extermination proved ineffective. I've only received news of one incident where the cockroaches have been disposed of. It wasn't the official agencies here, it was the janitor of the block. Special mention should be given to the center of NewBuda. Here is the Allee shopping centre, where the canteens hit each other, the market, the district's outpatient clinic, and even an empty school building, where they want to set up a paediatric center. And after dark, you can't really move around here without stepping on a cockroach or two. The success of the cockroach removal was measured by the Budapest Government Office on the basis of a contract, but since the beginning of the year, the government's wise measures have led to the departure of thousands of workers, including public health professionals. At the end of last year, the government office initiated the termination of the contract, i.e. the problem had to be understood by the leadership of the capital. Finally, the contract was terminated a few months ago, but the capital has not done anything to measure the effectiveness of the roach slaughter, in a simpler way: the roach slaughter has not been controlled by the dog for six months. It is no wonder, then, that the beetles have grown tremendously. Dear House, Cockroach infection is a true picture of the public health situation in that area. Where there is dirt, where public areas are not properly cleaned, where garbage is stuck, the cockroach finds excellent living conditions, so it necessarily increases. And that's the case in NewBudan, especially since someone near the government found out what a great deal of garbage transportation is, especially if the waste isn't shipped, they're just taking over the money for it. I repeat: the leadership of the government, the capital and the district also has a responsibility in the fact that the inhabitants of Újbuda are slowly being driven out by cockroaches. I don't know what's going on in other districts of the capital, but I would like to point out that the cockroach has little respect for district boundaries, and sooner or later it will flood other districts. And the citizens rightly ask: why do they pay one of the highest taxes in Europe if there is not even a fair extermination? Thank you for your attention.
u2019-07-08-311	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Jobbikos Rig Lajos also spoke after the agenda with the title "The Margo of the Swiss Road." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-07-08-312	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Everyone in this room knows that the most difficult task of the governments so far has always been to put health and social care in order, including health and social care. We need to know about Hungary, and unfortunately, the statistics also confirm that we have an ageing society, and that the family model that has been typical of Hungary over the past few decades has not worked, when several generations have lived in a house, from grandchildren to grandparents to parents, so family members have been able to help each other, and if the grandparents need to be cared for, then their children have been able to perform this task. Unfortunately, this is becoming increasingly difficult in Hungary today, because young people have to work or, let's say, grandchildren have already found their calculation abroad. There are fewer and fewer homes for social services or elderly people who can accommodate these elderly people who need to be cared for 24 hours a day. We see that today, in Hungary, the government is providing less and less space for ageing society and older people. Therefore, it is up to the local authorities to decide whether to set up a nursing home on their own or even on a low level of state aid. Bükkszenterzsébet because he dreamed big and because he took a big step into the home of a 33 - seat nursing home, they remodeled a building. Yes, but since there was no state aid and the limited financial framework set the limits for which they could stretch, there was no municipal source of internal equipment. [[19.00]] So they contacted me about a common acquaintance, and because they saw us bring medical furniture to Hungary several times, so they asked us for help with sick beds and night tables. The caring hand of God has found the best possible way over the municipality of Bükkszenterzsébet, and by means of a contact in Zurich, let us also name the helper who, with his unselfish help, tried to help Bükkszenterzsébet's municipality, thanks to Erica Fekete Szegeti, in the first round [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] Fifteen of these beds and other equipment were obtained for Beechsenterjebét. Then, when Erika saw that there was a great need for these beds, with a new connection from Forch, another 27 electric beds from an elderly home can provide everyday life for the elderly who arrive and are taking care of them. I think that even if politics can't change, people have to change. If politics cannot change, these institutions need the help of the helpers, because if we go through the country, we can see the unblessed conditions, because despite the state funding of such a social institution, the furniture in it cannot be replaced for years. That is why such donations are needed, which is why we would like to thank the Swiss, and not only Erika, because now in Switzerland, a process has started that I think is unstoppable and should not be stopped, because the Order of the Knights of Malta has offered its help. In the coming times, we will help more and more social institutions, and Jobbik will help, and all the Members of Parliament will help in their respective districts, because if the government is already a stepchild of health and social care systems, then we should try to change this policy, try to focus on helping, try to change the approach, and try to change the policy by changing the approach. Once again, but not least, let us thank the heads of institutions who offered this donation, once again thank Erika and those volunteer helpers who have traveled thousands of kilometres to Hungary. Thank you for coming from Hungary. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-07-08-313	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the Parliament will take place on 12 July 2019. Thank you for your work. I wish you a restful evening. The meeting's closed.
