u2019-12-10-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 18th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and György László Lukács will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government today, Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, has applied for a speech. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-12-10-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I asked to speak here today to report on the NATO summit in London last week, which was an unusual meeting from the point of view that the organisers were planning a single working session, and it was unusual to say that it was preceded by increased expectations, given that the president of one of the strongest member states of NATO made a statement in the weeks prior to the NATO summit that it seemed to be difficult to demonstrate the unity. The Member States, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, have opposed and demonstrated NATO unity, demonstrated that NATO is the most successful defence alliance in the world, and have also declared that, as a new era has begun, we must face new types of security challenges, and NATO must also respond to these new types of security challenges. This is called adaptation in NATO jargon. A working group, led by the Secretary-General himself, has also been set up to report to the Foreign Ministers' Working Party next May on all the new types of challenges that NATO needs to respond to in order to meet new types of challenges. The accepted declaration can be considered a success from a Hungarian point of view. This is the first declaration following a summit that recognises mass illegal migration as a security risk. It was also an important aspect for us that NATO strengthened its commitment to the global fight against terrorism, which is, of course, good news for us, not only because Hungary has been actively involved in the fight against global terrorism from the outset, but also because we see the growing migratory pressure in the Western Balkans, we see that 100,000 illegal immigrants have been blocked and we see the clear link between the spread of terrorism and the uncontrolled mass migration flows, because it is clear that uncontrolled immigration flows are creating the opportunity for terrorist organisations to spread their own activists and terrorists around the world, not to mention their ideologies. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to inform you that Hungary is taking part in the success of NATO's efforts. Accordingly, we will continue to increase the number of Hungarian soldiers in Kosovo, where we will now increase our quota to 500 by placing 100 more soldiers. Another 70 of our soldiers will serve in Afghanistan, with which the number will rise to 170. We maintain our financial support for the continued development of the national security forces in Afghanistan. This year the participation and performance of Hungarians in the Baltic air defense activity was highly appreciated. We will return in 2022 and will contribute to ensuring the safety of the Baltic NATO countries. We will contribute EUR 100,000 to the completion of Georgia's force reform, and we will also support the development of Jordanian crisis management capabilities by EUR 100,000. I would also like to report to the Parliament that the Central European Multinational Division Command has been established with Hungarian-Croatian cooperation, which will become part of NATO's force structure, and we will also discuss accession with other Member States. I am proud to report to you, ladies and gentlemen, that one of our two Welsh commitments has been completed this year, because the amount of development-type expenditure in defence expenditure has gone above 20 per cent, and we also have a clear timetable for looking at what NATO itself has agreed to do with our second Welsh commitment, i.e. 2 per cent of GDP, defence costs and expenditure. Ladies and gentlemen, I would therefore also like to confirm to you here that the NATO Summit has once again demonstrated that Hungary is a reliable ally. For us, NATO membership is more than a question of belonging to a simple international organisation, since, after 40 years of communist dictatorship, NATO is one of the symbols here in Hungary, and our NATO membership is one of the symbols of Hungary's taking back the decision about its future and its destiny after years of communist dictatorship. So we can be proud of it. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] that we are members of the world's most successful defence alliance, which can continuously increase its contribution to the success of the alliance's efforts. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-10-2	Thank you, Secretary of State Szijjártó. Dear Parliament, They have the opportunity to comment and comment on it in two minutes from all the political groups. First, I give the floor in order of application to Congressman Brenner Koloman, Jobbik.
u2019-12-10-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear House, We thanked Minister for his detailed report on the NATO summit. We would also like to state here that in relation to the Transcarpathia of Jobbik, he has always supported the Hungarian government's endeavour to block Ukraine's accession to NATO until Ukraine grants the right minority and linguistic rights to the Hungarian Republic of Transcarpathia. And by the way, the fact that a new era is beginning in NATO, we can totally see it. However, I would like to state here that the French President's statement, and the fact that since the American President Trump took office, America's European policy has fundamentally changed, will put NATO to a whole new challenge. Our country must play a prominent role in this. On the part of Jobbik, Mrs Varga-Damm Andrea is currently taking part in a NATO event, and I would like to highlight it. However, as far as the other foot of our country's Euroatlantic feet is concerned, I would like to state here the European Union that, let us say, things are happening today in this National Assembly, such as filling the Media Council with Fidesz members only, centralising the cultural law, and not listing the laws that raise very serious concerns. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What centralization? Quote a platoon that centralizes.]] , which certainly do not support the procedure against Hungary, taking into account the rule of law. I would also like to point out that from the point of view of border surveillance, it was Jobbik at the time, which provided two thirds of the fence with border guards, of course we continue to support this, but we see a great danger in the accession of our country to the Euro-Atlantic, if this is the way things are going, as far as the rule of law is concerned. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from Jobbik's ranks.]] [[9.10]]
u2019-12-10-4	Thank you, Congressman Brenner. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr Tamás Harangozó.
u2019-12-10-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Yes, the 70th birthday, although a little strange, was obviously a very important festive occasion. I would also like to say here that the MSZP not only supports our Euroatlantic integration, our NATO membership and our membership in the EU, but I also think that it has an inexhaustible role in achieving these, and that we will continue to do so in its maintenance. There were three kinds of news about this event. One in the government propaganda is what the Hungarian government said about it. It's a separate block, because there's no news of it anywhere else. There was another block, the more tabloid part, which I will also say two sentences about, and there was professionally understandable news and reports. Let me quote Boris Johnson, who is difficult to accuse of serial deflecting. He said that the new challenges, in particular hybrid warfare, cyberspace and cyberspace, should be addressed in the future. If it is already hybrid warfare, which has been omitted from the Hungarian government propaganda as an expression, let me say that yes, the Ukrainian situation is the playing field of this, at least the Russian hybrid warfare, its main terrain, and, among other things, the Hungarian minority suffers because of this. So this is what Hungary and NATO have to deal with. What's about hybrid warfare, yes, NATO's unit is our only guarantee of security. That's what Boris Johnson said. Compared to this, it was a Russian television that recorded that scandalous conversation, and then cut it, and the whole country was covered by the news that was probably said between Macron and Boris Johnson, and thanks to which President Trump packed his bags and left the event like a pouty little kid. This shows the means of undermining NATO's unity beyond military means, as well as Russian influence. In conclusion, we support everything that strengthens NATO unity, Minister, and we will face anything that weakens NATO. Thank you so much for listening.
u2019-12-10-6	Thank you, Congressman Bellozó. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr Zsolt Németh.
u2019-12-10-7	Mr President, Dear Minister, It is a 70-year anniversary and it is a significant achievement that peace has been maintained in Europe during this period, but for us the 20th anniversary is equally important. I would like to stress that Hungary's accession to NATO took place during the first Fidesz government in 1999, and therefore, naturally, Fidesz, as a political community, is also an essential and integral part of its identity, that we are committed to NATO membership. We were confused by the French President's statement that declared NATO brain-dead. I believe that this is against NATO's reality since 2015, because from Wales to Varsó, through Brussels, to London NATO has strengthened, NATO has found its identity. NATO, I believe, has reached its peak with this summit since the change of regime, and this summit has also been practically about French isolation and has been able to demonstrate NATO unity very spectacularly. It would be good if we didn't dive into party political interpretations about the NATO summit. The NATO summit was a success, and it was able to demonstrate NATO's unity very spectacularly. It is in our fundamental interest that, as 30 years ago, there should be an Atlantic cooperation, especially for Central Europe. Central Europe should not be without Atlantic cooperation, and NATO, including the fight against illegal migration, is still a very important guarantee of security and economic development in the region. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-10-8	Thank you very much, committee president Zsolt Németh. The next speaker from the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa.
u2019-12-10-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Thank you very much for the report on the last NATO summit. 70 years and 20 years, very important dates, very important anniversaries. I think that this is where we should thank all Hungarian soldiers who serve at NATO headquarters in the NATO missions. They also have the highest recognition in NATO circles. It is in Hungary's interest to be a NATO member, and I think that Hungary is a respected member of NATO. Each time our NATO allies stress that Hungarian soldiers really should be praised wherever they stand. We must always speak of it in the highest respect, which is why I must inform the Minister of the unfortunate development that there is a bill here before Parliament that prolongs the engagement of Hungarian soldiers in the fight against the Islamic State, and this does not enjoy undivided support among the opposition benches. I think we're gonna have to work on that. The Ukraine strategy with regard to NATO is very important, as Minister said, to block Ukraine's membership of NATO until the rights of Hungarians in Transcarpathia are restored; we are talking about education, language rights and fundamental human rights. I ask Minister to remain on this issue, and in any case to represent the interests of Transcarpathian Hungarians. I think that we have never denied the existence of hybrid warfare in the world, or that we have never said that the challenges of cyber security would not be vitally important, so I did not fully understand the accusations of my fellow Member, Mr Harangozó. We have always said that these are extremely important areas and that cooperation in these areas needs to be further developed. It is very important that Hungary is able to meet its commitments by 2024 in terms of common burden bearing, in terms of 2 percent protection expenditure. Minister, the Fidesz and KDNP factions will give us all the help we need to reach this 2-percent limit and contribute to defence costs in NATO. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-10-10	Thank you, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. The group leader, László Keresztes, comes from the LMP Group.
u2019-12-10-11	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, I would also like to start by saying that we agree, because it is obvious that NATO is of great importance for the security and protection of our country. By the way, I'd like to start by thanking every soldier who's ever been involved in NATO missions. There is also a very serious consensus, and I think that we must do everything we can, we must use all the political instruments to ensure that the rights of Hungarians living in Transcarpathia can be guaranteed. We were very pleased, by the way, with the resolution of the Venice Commission, which said what everyone else knew, and obviously because of the educational law, the language law, we should also use the toughest political tools. We also consider it an important step that the fact that mass migration poses a security risk has been included in the final document of the NATO Summit. It is important to state this in such a high-level document. In this connection, we have also tabled a proposal for a resolution in Parliament, and we have very often stated that our position on this issue is clear, that the EU's external borders must be protected, that illegal migration must be effectively combated, and that immigration policy must remain national. This is why it was shocking to us that, after NATO member countries stood united in the aggression of the Turks against Kurds, the Hungarian government provided virtually political support for this villainy, practically a genocide attempt. It was a truly amazing and mournful time for Hungarian foreign policy to have this happened. [[9.20]] Viktor Orbán prefers to present himself as a protector of Christian Europe. Compared to this, he has a close relationship with a Turkish president who is not a friend of Europe, who specifically drew attention to the fact that the Turks living in Europe are not integrated, and is able to use this huge minority as a political tool, for example, to influence German internal policy It's a pretty shocking process. But it must also be said that we can make a significant contribution to tackling the migration crisis if we face one of the most important causes, global climate change. Well, in this respect, I think that there are still very serious shortcomings on the part of the Hungarian Government in terms of international engagement, so that this issue is recognised at all and that they really take action to address the causes of migration. Thank you.
u2019-12-10-12	Thank you, Mr. Crusade Leader. From the Dialogue Group, I give the floor to Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio.
u2019-12-10-13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister for Foreign Affairs, We agree on the unity of NATO, we support action against Ukraine, and we would also like to thank you for the work of the soldiers serving in NATO. However, we think the report has been quite incomplete, a few things have been left out that I'm curious about. As far as I am aware, NATO first identified China as a potential threat as an emerging military power, a possible problem was the construction and development of 5G mobile communications networks, in particular the Chinese-owned Huawei telecommunications company. Mr Foreign Minister, what did you say in NATO that you said in Shanghai on 5 November that the 5 G network is being built in Hungary with the assistance of the Chinese telecommunications giant Huawei? I would also like to know that, since NATO's position remains that Russia is a threat to Euroatlantic security, what did the NATO allies say about the fact that at the end of 2016 two Russian arms dealers, who were captured with American assistance, were not ultimately allocated to the United States, but to Russia? What did the NATO allies say about the fact that, while there are sanctions for Russian arms sales in Europe, Romania, for example, did not allow Russian weapons to pass through, but, by cheating Hungary, Russians transported weapons to Serbia via air transport? What did the allies say about using Moscow's International Investment Bank to cover primarily Russian intelligence, intelligence and financial operations in Budapest? I would also like to know whether NATO Member States, especially the secret services, are really concerned about the activities of the Russian secret service in Hungary, as it appeared in Politico, and that is why they do not disclose confidential information to the Hungarian secret service, which, in turn, seriously threatens the security of Hungary. I'm gonna need you to answer those questions. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-10-14	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will move on to the speeches before the agenda. First, I give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, leader of the group, with the title MSZP:.
u2019-12-10-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Last night, thousands of people protested in the capital for the government's ax to cultural life and cultural funding again. Thousands of people stood outside last night in the cold and protested against destruction, the restriction of the artistic freedom of theatres and the government influence of municipal theatres. The reason for the law is extremely primitive, it is said that those who pay order. Well, that's their biggest problem, one of your biggest problems is that they believe that the Hungarian people and the Hungarian taxpayers' money is yours. It shows that they didn't understand anything from October 13th, because most of the people, unlike you, think that they don't, this money isn't yours. Ladies and gentlemen, Count István Széchenyi said that the power of a nation lies in the multitude of educated heads of people. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Is that why you introduced the tuition?]] Széchenyi is right, because a multitude of educated heads of people have a clear understanding of the cynical nature of this regime, are able to demonstrate the injustices of the Orbán system and are able to organize themselves against the system's soldiers. That's exactly what started your next attack on them. Fidesz is afraid of them, Fidesz is afraid of us, of citizens capable of critical thinking, self-reliance, because the Fidesz elite is in the interest of the state's vulnerable, obedient subjects. That's what they want our children to be, and that's why they're attacking independent courts, science, and that's why they drove the CEU away. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: CEU is still in Budapest!]] And that's why they're attacking the theaters. Tens of thousands of young Hungarians are forced into the cycle of community work and occasional work every year. That's why our best-performing students are going abroad, and that's why we're running away from public schools, and that's why we're getting to the point where the school doesn't just eliminate it, but enhances the disadvantages that come from home. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The PISA report contradicts this!]] In front of us, the future of this country is being wasted day after day. Ladies and gentlemen, The Orbán government believes that if it builds a intellectual fence around the country out of a cultural struggle conceived for power, it can deny and lie the challenges of the present and the future. He thinks that if he chokes the word into the theaters that have mirrored reality, then the true word doesn't go anywhere but government propaganda. I would like to point out that others have tried to do this in some European countries before, but it has not worked. It's a bad recipe, don't do it! If you don't like what you see in the mirror, I'm not sure it's the mirror. Ladies and gentlemen, The government attack that is currently taking place against education, scientific and artistic freedom, justice, local government and representatives' rights is revenge driven by fear. The Fidesz is afraid of his power, because he was defeated on October 13th. The truth is, you're offended by the voters, and now you're trying to get revenge. They've lost space, and now they're rushing and slamming. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, the majority of Parliament may accept these shameful proposals, but the process that started a year ago with the protest against the slave law has united us in Parliament, united us in the streets and united us in the 2019 municipal elections. We need to strengthen this unit, that's what we're gonna work on. We are working to create a national minimum to expel the Orbán government in 2022 and start a new era. We want and will create a country where such a system as you have created in this country will no longer destroy Hungary. Hope and recipe gave me. We are ready for a fair, free and green Hungary. In the meantime, Merry Christmas. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-12-10-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Bertalan Tóth. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári will respond.
u2019-12-10-17	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, The law that you spoke about was written by professional organisations:. The legislative amendment that is being made puts the institutions of Hungarian culture in a better position. This was not signed by the Hungarian Socialist Party, but by those who move in theatres every day: the Hungarian Teatrum Society, the Association of Directors of the Rural Theatres, the Association of Hungarian National Theatres, the Mozaik Art Association, the Association of Outdoor Theatres, the Association of Hungarian Art Festivals. And they asked everyone to support this proposal calmly, not in your tone, but in terms of the situation and the text, in their reality, because they, who play in theatres every day, who organize in theatres every day, who work in theatres every day, think that I will read it once more to you in writing, because the amendment of legislation that is being made puts the institutions of Hungarian culture in a better position, honourable Member. That's what people who work in the theaters every day said. You warned me that the National Cultural Fund would cease. It has not ceased, nor will it cease, nor will the bill affect its resources or its operation. You said there would be fewer resources for culture and theatres. It is clear from the bill that it will not be less, but more. You said that the end of independent theatres was said a year ago when the former Tao system ceased, but it will not end, nor will it end now. You said that autonomy was over. There is no end to any form of autonomy, the state-reserved theaters, which operate entirely out of state money, can operate under the ownership of the State, the municipal authorities must exercise the law of the municipality, and the mixed-funded ones must be laid down individually in an agreement, honourable Member. And every municipality's free-to-take duties do not change, who wants to establish a theatre, who can do it, who wants to maintain it, who can do it, if he wants to, one, if he wants to, more. This state still has nothing to say about it. If a municipality decides to establish and maintain a theatre, it can do so. You spoke of freedom in a mirror, honourable Member. When István Tarlós was the mayor of Budapest, he also appointed the people with whom he does not necessarily stand on a worldview platform, such as Gábor Máté, Eszenyi Enikő or Pál Mácsai. [[9.30]] However, as soon as you came to power, not two months passed, hungry for revenge, arrogantly, Bán Teodora was already removed from the top of the outdoor stage. [[Zsolt Gréczy: His contract was not removed, but expired! Call again.]] At the first moment, the last person. While István Tarlós could be many liberal theatre directors as you had the opportunity, a man who was also head of the Free Space Theatre during Gábor Demszky's time. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Your contract is over!]] During the time of István Tarlós, he was also the leader of the Free Square Theatre [[Zsolt Gréczy: Your contract is over!]] but not necessarily at all of Gergely Christmas's events, I was removed at that moment, because you do not need diversity, but you need everyone to be a follower of liberal values, honourable Member. You're not protesting for freedom at all. [[Zsolt Gréczy: As Robert Alföldi had then expired his contract!]] As regards the balance sheet of the MSZP this year, honourable Member, you have lost it, because you have resigned from the ranks of László Botka and József Tobias, a former Prime Minister candidate, and here you have a fellow Member in Parliament, who was also party president. An interesting spot, Tibor Szanyi, has also left their own party. You wrote this year's political story by hitting the voters of the Fidesz-KDNP by rushing into closed doors, saying that I do not quote exactly how strong it would be to lie down on the back of the stairs with your hands on your head and try to create international publicity among you by acting and acting, honourable Member. In the elections to the European Parliament, they have barely exceeded 6 percent, and they have failed, honourable Member. Each EP election is divided in the number of their mandates, and now there is only one Member left, so you have nothing left but to give up your autonomy and try the next elections under the aegis of Ferenc Gyurcsány. You have the result of a weaker election in Fejér County and Bács-Kiskun County than in Mi Hazan, honourable Member. In six counties, Bács-Kiskun, Fejér, Győr-Moson-Sopron, Pest, Somogy and Zala, the successor of the former state party did not even enter the county assembly. And the result of your political history is that we have managed to get politicians who have entered Parliament with previous anti-Semitic speeches to the mayor's seat. Well, congratulations, Your Honour, that's a good result. [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] That's what you might call a partnership, of course, but you could call it that. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] I'm sure you've given former anti-Semites power. Not to mention that economic decisions and municipal real estate sales in Zugló are also linked to your name. [[The president's ringing again.]] And I think we're gonna talk a lot more about Csaba Lackner. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-10-18	Thank you very much, Secretary of State of Rétvári. Dear Parliament, He also spoke before the agenda, with the title of the Head of the Dialogue Group, Mrs Szabó Timea: on current affairs.
u2019-12-10-19	Ladies and gentlemen, Today is the World Human Rights Day, and, by the way, the last session of Parliament where we can account for the last year, to be exact, of your performance this year. Let's start at the beginning. In January, you started the year by introducing the slave law with 400 hours of overtime per year. This was Viktor Orbán's medieval response to his own labour shortage, after 600 thousand Hungarians fled from the prospect of Orbán. The humiliatingly low wages, the life-threatening health care, the full draining of children have all contributed to the further decline of Hungarians, and there are no children born in the country. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: No children are born.]] Because the demographic indicator has also turned out quite disastrously: while you are talking about having a large family-friendly government, virtually no one besides Rachel Orbán's family feels it. It is no coincidence that in the first half of 2019 children were born again by 3 percent less than a year before, but death increased by 1 percent; according to this, natural weight loss increased by 8 percent only in the first half of this year. Plus, they put a woman who turned out to have girls filming porn movies on their billionaire family propaganda posters. Why don't you explain to me what your sickly affection for porn is? First Zsolt Borkai, then this woman. Now I ask Peter Harrach whether this is the new Christian government or what the hell it is. But let's just keep going, really just eye-opening from this year. For example, János Pócs found out that he had locked an employee in a boiler, and then threw a burning lighter at him without any consequences. Zsolt Bayer was written that he rents apartments in the Buda Castle for 32,000 forints, while the monthly rental of a bed in the Csepel working home did not result in 60,000 forints. Orbán's son-in-law, István Tiborcz, found out that he cheated in the EU public lighting tender and stole HUF 13 billion in the faceless manner, which we will have to pay back to the Union without any consequences. Meanwhile, in May, István Tiborcz, 32 years old, became the 32nd richest Hungarian man with 35 billion HUF worth of wealth. Well, the first stone to be thrown at him when he was 32 wasn't 35 billion forints worth in this country! But in return, at least 3,000 families were evicted from their homes this year, including elderly patients and single mothers with cancer. Meanwhile, another OECD data on patient care in 2019 came out: 46,000 per year, a city the size of Eger dies of curable disease simply because you and Viktor Orbán stole money from health care. In the number of CT and MRI devices, only Mexico is doing worse than we are in Mexico! of all OECD countries. The social security system is being tightened up today so that people in particular will die. Fotian disabled children are being kicked out of their homes just so that Lőrinc Mészáros can build something there again. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] Children in wheelchairs are sent to Zalaegerszeg and Kalocsa, where children are known to be beaten. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: True!]] They destroyed the research network of the MTA, and now they're about to grind the theaters. For another nine years, Peter Polt was appointed to a negative peak in the corruption investigation. On the other hand, László Domokos, the President of the Court of Auditors, who was constantly threatening the Dialogue, raised his salary to HUF 4 million per month. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: We should obey the law!]] While a professor of physics and chemistry has been making 237 thousand forints a month for 35 years. While all Hungarians are concerned about climate change, Gergely Gulyás said that Greta Thunberg, an activist in the fight against climate change, is a sick child. The anti-law amendment of house rules is about to adopt the mouthlock law for Members today. It is a nice list, I say not, my fellow Members, and, unfortunately, there is still plenty to go on. On the other hand, fortunately, on 13 October we liberated Budapest and the rural cities from your thieving power by means of opposition cooperation. Gergely Christmas, under the leadership of the co-chair of the Dialogue in Budapest, we have already abolished the slave law, announced the climate crisis, stopped the destruction of the fidesz real estate speculators on the Roman beach, adopted the anti-corruption and transparency package, and could also include the positive measures that would go against your thieving government. These are just some of the things that will help us to build a liveable, humane and decent city, cities and countries together. You can be tough for a while, you can steal for a while, but get ready. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] In 2022, with the united opposition, we will drive you out of power and restore power to the people you belong to.
u2019-12-10-20	Thank you, Mr. Szabó Timea. On behalf of the government, I give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör.
u2019-12-10-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will try to respond to the points raised by your left-wing paper on important topics. As for the question of employment: what you called a slave law... I remember what they had here a year ago. And the last year has proven that what you said then was a lie, because if it hadn't been a lie, you would have been chained to companies; typically, you only did so before the law was passed. By the way, as far as wages are concerned, what you're saying is not true. I am not saying that wages are where we want to be in Hungary, that more increases are needed, but allow me to mention some data! The wages of social workers increased by 62 percent between 2013 and 2018, the salaries of teachers increased by 50 percent since 2013, the average wages of doctors were 82 percent compared to 2012, the average wage increase for ambulances was 67 percent between 2016 and 2018 and the wages of health professionals increased by 2022 by two and a half times the level of 2016 [[Szabó Timea: Social workers earn 130 grand! Intruder from the pro-government line: Shut up! Relax.]] The salary of police and soldiers rose by 50 percent due to the career model. [[Szabó Timea: 130,000...]] You know that very well, and you're telling me that it's not true. Madam Member, I have listened to you, please give respect to our voters and you will also hear the answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. György Balla: He doesn't know respect!]] [[9.40]] As regards health [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: He doesn't know what respect is!]] With HUF 724 billion... [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] Congresswoman, if you have time between two yellings [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We spend 724 billion forints more on health than we used to. [[Szabó Timea: The result does not show this!]] Without whom you would not be in Parliament. As far as education is concerned, we spend 645 billion forints more. And as far as the rules on Members are concerned, there will be no mouth lock. You'll be able to say what you want, there's one difference: you'll have to behave. They will not be able to prevent decision-making, nor will they be obscene. [[Intercoms from KDNP lines. Szabó Timea: Twenty-two are not threats, but promises!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If someone wants to know what you would do if you could get an opportunity, I still suggest that we start from what happened in Budapest. You will tell us everything, honourable Member, what you started with. By significantly increasing the number of positions and raising their own salary. [[Szabó Timea: There are 200 State Secretarys!]] And that's just the beginning, because in the sequel, they started recalling the people of the past. They've been doing it ever since. For example, let us look at the events of the past few days. Mária Vásárhelyi was given various positions; András Bőhm, former group leader of SZDSZ; and hold on, István Vágó, the Quiz Master will supervise the BKV Railway Vehicle Repair. [[Szabó Timea: The twenty-two-year-old Secretary of State, but that's tough...]] The quiz master of the BKV Rail Vehicle Repair. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] It's totally absurd! Make them millionaires, if they weren't millionaires before. There are really crowded lines of people who almost lost the country to their subpoena skills. It has not been two months, my honourable Member, since the election, but it is already apparent that they are going against what they have promised to the electorate at all the relevant points. They promised me improvements, but so far they've only vetoed. Where they see a development plan, they cross over. And they promised me a stadium stop, but they brought a hospital stop. They don't give extra 50 billion to health care in the capital, they don't vote, the super hospital's been voted off. Responsible farming has been promised, but the salary increases already cost the local government hundreds of millions. Why don't you switch this to CT, Congresswoman? Why not? [[Szabó Timea: You left a billion-dollar debt to the municipalities!]] Professional appointments were promised, but quizmasters, interrogators, K&H scandalists, SZDSZ mathsalems and Bajnai people come with a crowd [[Szabó Timea: István Tiborcz!]] And it's not over yet. They promised more financial support, but they're bringing in a tax increase. Land tax increases and construction tax increases [[Szabó Timea: Tiborcz tax!]] Garage tax increases, ideas about traffic charges and property taxes, and this is just a short negative taste of what's happened in the last few weeks. If it were to be written on a page, what would many people think of the past period in the capital? [[Szabó Timea: Then they would write October 13th!]] Then they'd write in capital letters that it wasn't like that, that's not what they promised. [[Nacsa Lárinc: They lied in the morning and at noon and at night!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The holidays are coming up, and one of these days, they're gonna be giving you the Frightens, burglars. This only occurred to me that when you govern somewhere, it is not burglars who have to tremble, but those who live from work, those who want better health care, people who love sports, people who drive diesel cars, and everyone who does not see the future of Budapest in extreme liberalism. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In your world, theater stalkers and the political Krampos who almost threw up on this country. [[The president's ringing again.]] We're not gonna let them do it again. Thank you for listening. [[Szabó Timea: New Theatre, György Dörner! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-10-22	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. How long does the Government take advantage of the patience of the people? The president of the Jobbik Group, Peter James, asked for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2019-12-10-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, It's been a year since you respected fidesz slave owners beat the slave law through parliament. It was a year ago that you sent a message, mostly to Western multinationals, that they could do virtually anything to Hungarian workers. Since then, the vulnerability of workers has increased in almost all sectors. The workload is increasing, the wages are just slipping away, the cafetheria has been taken away, and the workers are afraid to open their mouths, because if they do, they can go to the street and take up Ukrainians. This is no wonder, because according to the reports, one third of Hungarians do not have enough savings today, that if they lost their income, they could survive only a month. Of course they will. Meanwhile, your MEP Tamás Deutsch says things like that Hungarian people work overtime because they love being in their jobs. No, fellow Members, the Hungarian people are working overtime, you know, because otherwise they wouldn't be able to pay the loans, they wouldn't be able to pay the bills, but they wouldn't be able to afford a big weekend shopping trip. A year ago, I asked you not to raise overtime, but to raise wages, but to raise one thing in addition to overtime, but brutally: prices. Colleagues! In one year, the price of pork increased by 15 percent, the price of fresh vegetables increased by 31 percent, and the price of potatoes increased by 61 percent. Meanwhile, wages, do you know how much they've increased? Do you know how much? 10 percent. Well, so much for what a Hungarian worker's salary today is worth, fellow Members, or how much a working life is worth to you after the minimum pension amount of HUF 28 500 has been unchanged for 11 years, with such increases. And when I ask you how you want to prevent price increases, you spread your hands and say that, well, these are international processes, it's not the government's fault. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We reduced the VAT, you just didn't support it!]] But I beg you, who is to blame for the fact that in Hungary the wage and pension standards are so luxurious that Paris is already a luxury? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You didn't vote for 40.]] Who's to blame for taking half the salary away from the employees? Who's to blame for a beginner educator starting his life at 140 thousand forints net, and 20-year-old housing loans, fellow Members? When I talk about prices, you refer to international trends. You don't refer to this in wages, fellow Members? There are international trends there. You know, the Czechs, the Poles, the Slovaks are all earning better than the Hungarians. The government in Poland, you know what he did? In a blink of an eye, he abolished personal income tax on young workers because they said that this money was better off than young people. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Family tax relief!]] And you're taxing the Hungarians to make a hospital in Kenya. Have something to sail around on the Adriatic and in space. The guy who doesn't like this is a Soros hirer, right? [[Dr. Pál Völner: You are!]] A year ago, you hired the employee who protested against the slave law in the same way that you now hire the teachers who protest for our children. Colleagues, can you give the Hungarian nation this much? They don't give wages, they don't give modern education, they don't give quality health care, they give one thing: hate. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Your words are now filled with love!]] It's just, you know, fellow Members, the problem is that hate is a very dangerous feeling. Because that's one thing, Comrade Dumpster... don't laugh. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Interview from KDNP lines: Don't laugh?!]] It's one thing for you to put on the posters, for me to hate Soros or Sargentini or just who to hate. It's the smaller one, you know? The big one's bad, you know what, nice giggling? The bigger bad is that you have sent Hungarian society to the fact that Hungarian people are already able, unfortunately, [[Dr. Pál Völner: Demagog!]] Let's be honest, hating yourself. When I say teachers have to raise wages, do I get a lot from voters that teachers, Peter, raise wages? Well, they have winter break and summer break, and they don't deserve a raise. When I talk about raising the police's salary, they say that, well, the cops are punishing us all the time, and they don't deserve a raise. And the doctor doesn't deserve a raise either, says a lot of voters, because they're playing for gratuity money. Colleagues! This is the fruit of your hate policy. Hate is your dangerous plan! Because you know very well that you can remain in power until then. [[Nacsa Lawrence Laughing: Hate! Hate! Hate!]] as long as they can get the Hungarian people together. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] So from now on, I am not speaking to you, fellow Members, but to the Hungarian people. My message to all my Hungarian compatriots [[Nacsa Lawrence: Deep breaths!]] It's too small a country to fight each other. The enemies of this country are not in the Cathedral, they are not in the O.R., they are not in the police station, they are not the ones who robbed this country, they are not the reason Hungarians are deprived of work, they are not the reason the workers are working overtime. [[Dr. Pál Völner intervenes.]] So let's not be mad at each other. Not with the power to eviscerate our countrymen, not with the Fides, but with each other. I ask the Hungarian people that in the new year we Hungarians should stand side by side, stand by the teachers, the police, the doctors, stand by the young people, the pensioners, the factory workers [[A statement from the governing parties: And to Ferenc Gyurcsány!]] and everyone who's the loser of this regime. If we do this, if we Hungarians are able to fight together, then we can finally say yes, this nation is born to victory, because hatred is always overcome by love, solidarity, truth. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Merry Christmas, Hungary! [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-10-24	Thank you, Mr. Peter James. On behalf of the government, Csaba Dömötör responds to what has been said.
u2019-12-10-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] We note his speech, the essence of which is that he demanded love in the voice of hatred. We'll take it under advisement. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The fact is that he has said serious things about Hungary's condition and everyday life. You often refer here in the House to Borsod County, where you come from. I also come from this region, I grew up in North-East Hungary, in Mátraalja, and I consider it important that all regions of the country develop, so I looked at the data. [[9.50]] In Borsod, where you come from, unemployment has fallen from 17 percent to 4.5 percent. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: That's right! That's right.]] Net average earnings increased by 62 percent, which does not include family tax relief. I don't happen to say that wages are where they should be, that further increases are needed, but still wages have increased. The number of registered crimes in the past has decreased from 26 to 12 000. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: violation of the law!]] Which is a 56 percent decrease. And the fact is, honourable Member, that you have joined those who have doubled unemployment at the time, 12 percent, which this government has managed to reduce to less than 4 percent. I'm not saying that the country is where we want it to be, but I'm saying that we've taken important steps forward, especially in relation to the people you've teamed up with. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] And in a rather scandalous way, you regularly insult Hungarians. That he insults us, that we have to bear, that's part of our job description, but kicking Hungarians with two legs is not an option, that's the bottom of everything. In recent months, the Hungarians have been called slaves, poor people, but there have also been examples of them being bribed. That is not all, they were also called functional illiterate and servile. And the Hungarians across the border were compared to Indians who could be bought with a handful of glass beads. How insulting! And then you demand love? I ask you, honourable Member, not to fill the frustration of your identity crisis in the Hungarians, please. You've come a long way, that's for sure. They once stood strong for the victims of the 2006 police force, a few years later, and they joined forces with the perpetrators. You once even filed a complaint against Ferenc Gyurcsány about the dual citizenship campaign, it's been a few years, and they've been refurbished with them. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: Shame!]] You once raised your word against the sale of national wealth, it's been a few years, and you're sitting with those responsible for that. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] How can you then talk about any credibility? How? ! Your history of progress tells us a lot about your relationship with the heroes of '56. Jobbik's founding statement also states that the primary task is to remove the Communist successor party from political power. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. György Szi-lágyi: That's why we're fighting you! A voice from the pro-government benches: That's right!]] That's why Gergely Pongrátz could be at their inaugural meeting; even years ago, they promised to establish the National Justice Centre of Gergely Pongrátz. And do you know what your justice has become? The fact that Ferenc Gyurcsány and Ferenc are taking an oath on the steps of the Parliament, they shine with his wife on the same stage, and they have already joined them in half a hundred settlements at the last election. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Very weak!]] István Vácsó's flyer showed Jobbik's logo. That's all we have to say. Shame! [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches. Z. Carpathian Daniel: Then sit down.]] But the fact is, honourable Member, that Gergely Pongráz's brother summarizes the situation much more than I do, he says, and I quote, that Jobbik has cheated badly on the spirit of 1956. They joined forces with left-wing ideas proclaimers, against whom we've fought in '56. Gábor Vona was only encouraging us to escape from the trenches, but the current leadership has already climbed to the other side of the barricades and even shot ours from there. They've joined forces with the left, they're full of money, and they're screaming in Parliament. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Tibor Bana: Are you quoting Kuruc.info?]] Thank you for your support, Congressman. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] These are strong words, they are true, and we don't have much to add, maybe just to check out the national colors from the party's logos and put a big red star on them because they're following them now. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't talk to me...]] You used to run around the National Assembly with all kinds of stuff, bring a bunch of stuff over to the fidesz benches. We're not going to be running around with objects, but we have a suggestion for you: buy a large white cardboard, grab a red crayon, and write that I've joined the post-communists. [[Z. Kárpát, Daniel: We do not stand with you, we have no intention of doing so!]] Walk in front of the better-looking, former better-looking voters, and wait for the reaction, then perhaps you'll realize what they've made a former national party. A peaceful holiday for you. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-10-26	Thank you, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, also applied for a speech before the agenda:. Are you willing to take the interests of the Hungarian people into account? It's called the 2nd.
u2019-12-10-27	Thank you. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the situation of the Hungarian economy, the question remains that the government is finally willing to take the interests of the Hungarian people into account, i.e. it is willing to go beyond fiscal, administrative plans and take a new direction in economic policy. Despite any conflicting communication and stunts, you are the unconditional servers of the interests of the capital. Just a month ago, Péter Szijjártó announced as a sensation that this year the investment record of foreign capital in Hungary had been broken. A week ago, Mihály Varga boasted after the meeting of the National Competitiveness Council that Hungary's position in terms of the inflow of foreign working capital was good, since over the last five years we have been at the top of the ranking in terms of the proportion of incoming working capital to GDP in the region for three years. Why hasn't a word been said about Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, how their situation and profitability can improve? It is because of the essence of your policy, either purely because of bad habits, or they have nothing to talk about but developments that benefit the capital. Péter Szijjártó also made a very interesting statement in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and it turned out, in essence, that the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises are viewed exclusively through the prism of large corporate interests, only in the same way that they are supported by the large capital, essentially saying that the aim is to enable small businesses to deliver as many large-scale enterprises as possible, thus continuing to deliver them. This is a terrible view, and it goes completely against any possible crisis management. For your part, it is a fully conscious policy that Hungarian people's wages are kept low and far from seeing that the profitability of domestic businesses is not improving, while the administrative burden and taxes are making the lives of these businesses more difficult. And even though Minister László Palkovics talks about the fact that the Hungarian economy has entered a high-tech career, the big saying cannot cover reality. Experts have been warning for years that multi-companies typically install only the production, production, or the least value added stage of global value chains on Hungary, with a direct consequence of which the domestic wage level, which is considered extremely low in regional comparison, is extremely low. In addition, this increases the vulnerability of the Hungarian economy to the extreme, roboticisation and digitalisation are on our necks, and this will eliminate the assembly jobs for the first time. But not only are we talking about depressed wages, but the proportion of innovative businesses is far below the EU average. And how can we expect competitiveness to be improved by a government under which hundreds of thousands of highly qualified young people migrated abroad in the hope of a better livelihood? How can we expect competitiveness to be improved by a government that is trying to make up for this loss not by increasing the labour force of the domestic economy, but by using cheap foreign labour? Even this year, the government gave state resources to multinational companies instead of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. Is this the high-tech economy in the Hungarian way, fellow Members? Is this the real Hungaricum? Another example of government relations with Hungarian small businesses is to be taken into account. For the first time, the National Association of Hungarian Accountants informed the public that the government was preparing to tighten up this tax type, and then, as a result of crisis communication, László Parragh was involved, who would also support the conversion of the kata by resorting to abuse, and then the government owner of the area spoke very graciously, and quickly tried to explain that everyone was misinterpreting the situation in an evil way, because the Hungarian government was only trying to do good for businesses. And, tell me, couldn't this benefit have been discussed in a timely manner with small entrepreneurs? So, ladies and gentlemen, we urgently need a turnaround in economic policy, and we cannot continue with the economic policy that fattens the capital. We need a new balance, we need to support Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The policy you have imagined cannot continue, which puts all the burden on Hungarian people, and the Hungarian people deserve more than that. For large foreign companies, clear rules must be laid down: tax in Hungary and expand their social engagement. We are on the side of the Hungarian people, and we are doing everything we can to prevent you from putting the skin of Hungarian people on the market. In Hungary, large capital must operate under the rules of Hungarian interest and support the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. That's what we stand for. What do you do?
u2019-12-10-28	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Márta Demeter. On behalf of the Government, Mr Tamás Schanda, State Secretary, will respond. [[10.00]]
u2019-12-10-29	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Unfortunately, I have to say that once again you did not take sufficient care to get the data, or at least you certainly did. [[Márta Demeter interrupts.]] You mistakenly claim that the government is in favour of multi-enterprises and does so to the detriment and detriment of domestic SMEs, but that is not the case, that is not true. The fact is that the government is doing everything in its power to support and develop small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Hungary is performing better, and no one can question this, as economic data and economic facts support this, and the Hungarian SME sector plays a major role in this, which is a joint success of the cooperation between the government and businesses. Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises have done well in recent years, keeping pace with large companies. Many entrepreneurs, many Hungarian entrepreneurs, have hard work in it, so let's not doubt it. Allow me to illustrate this with some data, some facts. The turnover of an average small and medium-sized enterprise increased from HUF 61 million in 2009 to HUF 80 million in 2017, i.e. by 30 percent, nominally by 30 percent and in real terms by 15 percent. SMEs are now able to employ 155 thousand more people than in 2009; I believe that this is also a remarkable step forward from the record high unemployment rate during the governance of Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Gergely Arató: Then Ferenc Gyurcsány was not the Prime Minister! Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] 2019. ANNEX II In the quarter of 2010 only to mention this number, 833 thousand more people are working than in 2010. The added value generated by an average small and medium-sized enterprise increased from HUF 10 million in 2009 to HUF 16 million in 2017, nominally by 35 percent and in real terms by 27 percent. The export turnover of an average small and medium-sized enterprise increased from HUF 9 million in 2009 to HUF 15 million in 17 million, nominally 67 percent and in real terms 46 percent. [[Márta Demeter interrupts.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Behind the numbers, the results are also the work of Hungarian companies, Hungarian families, who deny this, it denies and ignores the performance of Hungarian people. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Our goal is no less than to be among the five European countries where living, living and working is best by 2030, and it is necessary for this goal to be competitive. [[Gergely Harvestó: At the time of the new government! Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Hungary is among the five most competitive countries, which is why we are working, and we are working with this in mind. This is, for example, the transformation of the vocational training system, which you have not voted for or supported again. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It should also be noted that circumstances have changed with the continuous change in technology, and therefore we believe that the functioning of SMEs should be aligned with the changed circumstances. To this end, we have created and accepted the government's SME strategy for a study. [[Márta Demeter: I've read it, not enough! It's not enough!]] , which is characterized by three words: green, high-tech and Hungarian. [[Defiance in DK's ranks.]] SMEs already employ more than two thirds of all employees in Hungary, and they produce more than half of the added value, so their support is of paramount importance and their efficiency gains are particularly necessary. It is also a fact that during the period 2010-17, the improvement in productivity of Hungarian businesses in all size categories exceeded the growth rate of the V4 countries and the EU 28, but, of course, of the Western countries in particular, productivity levels are still lagging behind, which is why this needs to be improved; this is what the SME strategy I was talking about is about. And it can also be said that since 2010, the tax burden on SMEs has been significantly reduced, we have provided easy borrowing and substantial grants for a wide range of businesses. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] All of this contributed to it (The President bell rings). that the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian SME sector...
u2019-12-10-30	Thank you...
u2019-12-10-31	... he was able to do it. [[Márta Demeter: I wish what he said was true.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-10-32	Thank you, Secretary Schanda. Dear Parliament, Ferenc Gyurcsány, head of the DK faction, applied for a speech before the agenda entitled End of 2019. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2019-12-10-33	For the government and the pro-government parliamentary representatives here before Christmas, on the day of the manifestation of human and political depravity [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] when they show it with the theater law [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] That there is no limit to the violence you can commit (intercoms from the ruling parties. ), for the rest of the Christmas day [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Rubber bullet! Rubber bullets! There are constant interruptions from the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] I wish you all something to think about. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We lied this morning, night and night!]] Please try to decipher the meaning of the sentence that applies to you: as long as you are worthless, it is not suitable for Hungarians. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks. Intercoms from the ruling parties. Dr. Bence Rétvári: We would have listened so much! The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2019-12-10-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. [[Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] I'd like to see the [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: The pro-government representatives!]] The ruling party for greater peace, thank you very much. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör.
u2019-12-10-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm trying to take advantage of the five-minute time frame. [[Zsolt Gréczy: There was no doubt! You're stalling, aren't you?]] I'm happy to have a conversation with you. As far as culture is concerned, I would also like to say here that there will be greater freedom for municipalities in the future. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] because they can operate the theatre in their own jurisdiction, decide to leave it to the State, and a mixed solution is possible, in which case an agreement will be necessary. Now, as far as vileness is concerned, perhaps that's the word you used to use in your, you know what it is? The fact that the congressman behind you in a T-shirt is referring to home care. [[László Varju stands up, on his T-shirt you can see the following inscriptions on his T-shirt: -Do you have free Christmas for home-care families?]] There was a vote about this a year ago, and they were running around, but they didn't vote for it. [[Gergely Harvesto: You cheated and lied! Zsolt Gréczy: You didn't give me the money!]] This despicableness, this hypocrisy of referring to sick children, even held a press conference with them, and then they did not vote for the law. Again, it was a year ago. That's scoundrelry! [[Intercoms from DK and the ruling parties. Applause.]] And if it is a moral issue, honourable Member, when it is about democracy itself, it is such a terrible section of cynicism and insensitiveness that it is difficult to find words for. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Oh! You don't have to try. Gergely Harvesto: You don't have to!]] Mernee [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Honourable Member, would you say the same thing to László N. about moral matters? On October 23, 2006, he was on his way home, when the police had, for no reason, sold a targeted shot to his face, his cheekbones shattered, and no one lost their eyes apologizing to him. [[Zsolt Gréczy: You wanted to use sharp ammunition, and more police officers were injured than civilians! More cops! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: There's a court order on this.]] Would you have the courage to teach László V, who was held in a ring, kicked, and then trampled on the national flag he held in his hand? No one apologized to him. [[Zsolt Gréczy: He's lying! Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] He'd do the same lecture, Cs. To Attila's relatives [[Zsolt Gréczy: He's lying!]] He was basically blinded when he was shot at Blaha Lujza Square in 2006, he couldn't see in any of his eyes before, the other had to be operated on after the shooting, he was disabled, and in 2011 he ended his life with his own hands, and his relatives were never apologized! [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] You certainly didn't apologize to them, and not because you lacked courage, but because you never wanted to. [[Zsolt Gréczy: It was a coup attempt!]] [[Zsolt Gréczy: It was a coup attempt!]] Shame! (Zsolt Gréczy: It was a coup attempt!) That's what he said... [[István Szilárd Németh: Vile, that's why! Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] That's what you just said in a slacker video that it's complicated. [[Gergely Harvestó: Aren't you ashamed?! Zsolt Gréczy: More officers were injured than civilians! Gergely Harvester: Shame on you!]] It's a complicated story. [[It's an intervention from DK's ranks.]] No, Mr Gyurcsány, it's not complicated at all: you attacked your own people, and there's not enough video blogging nonsense. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Have you apologized to the police?]] There aren't enough photos of food, and there aren't enough puffy teenage shoes to make that go away. We won't forget it and we won't forget it. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We don't forget either. Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] Dear Chief of Staff, There is a reason for you to say the last opposition speech so theatrically again in the parliamentary season. It's very clear from the outside. [[Gergely Harvesto: Will they lead us out from here on out?!]] Since we're at the theater, you're the director of the theatre on the left. [[Defiance in DK's ranks.]] [[10.10]] You're directing the left play, and it's better not to know what you're doing behind the scenes. [[Gergely Harvester laughs.]] Ferenc Gyurcsány is the director over there even if he sends out Gergely Christmas, a tax fraud lawyer and a change of clothes to the stage instead of you. [[Interview from the governing parties' benches: Yes! Zsolt Gréczy: Porn actor...]] He's directing the left now, but in 2022 [[Zsolt Gréczy: Porn actor...]] He wants the country. You keep talking about 2022, all the opposition factions. This also proves that the opposition is completely oblivious to the fate of the country until then. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We are talking about 2022... Zsolt Gréczy: What about the family-friendly pornographer? Tell me.]] They do not make proposals for the months ahead, for years [[Zsolt Gréczy: Family-friendly porn... Gergely Arató: We have two suggestions in there, and I'll see how you vote tomorrow!]] It's 2022 that's what's bothering you. They're just thinking about the next opportunity to gain power, nothing else. [[Constant intervention and noise from the benches of opposition parties.]] One thing you can be sure of is that our political community will be on the lookout, we know what we have to lose, and we know what Hungary has to lose. [[Gergely Harvesto: You lose a lot...]] You, I see, are going to use all the tools, but I have to say, we're going to get into the fight, we're not going to put the steering pole in the hands of the eyeballs who smash the economy again. [[Interventions from the benches of opposition parties. Gergely Harvester: Fear me...]] Dear Chief of Staff, Recently, on his own Facebook page, he wondered why he got a gadget... [[Zsolt Gréczy: October 13th...]] We don't know the root cause, but we have a few tips on the past, and you can be sure you got it for a reason, because the greatest vigil in this country is yours. I wish you a peaceful Christmas. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Zsolt Gréczy: You didn't say a word about the family-friendly porn player... Noise in the room.]]
u2019-12-10-36	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Dear Parliament, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] He applied for a pre-meeting speech by Mr.Péter Harrach, Head of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, with the title of his meeting on foreign policy issues. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2019-12-10-37	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing again.]] We have reached the end of the session, and it is appropriate to take a look back at this period and the days immediately preceding it. Undoubtedly, the municipal election was the most important event of those days. We know the results, the reasons and the lessons, and unfortunately also the consequences that have been mentioned today. However, I would like to address foreign policy issues, not internal policy. In general, it is safe to say that Hungary is engaged in active and successful foreign policy activities. This is confirmed, among other things, by the fact that within a short time the Hungarian Prime Minister met the President of the United States, Russia, France, Turkey, the Prime Minister of China, the German Chancellor, so we can see a sign of respect for activity and Hungarian foreign policy. If we were to briefly state what the purpose of Hungarian foreign policy is, then we could say in one sentence that the representation of Hungarian interests is. This sometimes means protecting our sovereignty in foreign policy, just as in the interests of Hungarians across borders, protecting their rights, but it also means that we are part of international solidarity. There are several signs of this, and I'll come back to that. I would like to briefly describe three events. One is the issue of long-term, secure gas supply in Hungary. This is partly a foreign policy issue, but it is indeed an external economic issue. If we look at cooperation in the West East, we can safely say that East raw materials and Western technology are good if they meet, and this is the case with Hungarian gas supply. There is much talk about diversifying gas purchases, but, as cleverly said in a response, there are two things that need to be done: gas and pipe. And until we have everything, it's a difficult question, even if we have it in our intentions. In recent years, negotiations have taken place on the owner of the gas source, Gazprom and the conclusion of the agreement with them, and the result of this cooperation is that Hungarian gas storage facilities are full of 6.4 billion cubic metres of gas. Now the gas is coming from the East. Of course, gas comes from the West, even if it is the source of Eastern gas. We hope that the South will come to pass sooner or later. Let me also raise another question and mention the question of the Minister, Ukraine. The Hungarian veto blocking NATO's approach has already been mentioned today, and then the result after the issue of the return of limited rights in the minority and language law has been included in the joint declaration. The Hungarian interest in Ukraine is twofold, one is the restoration of the rights of the Hungarian minority and the other is the guarantee of the stability of Ukraine, as it is a buffer zone, the state whose security and stability are also of Hungarian interest. And third of all, let me mention a seemingly simple question, which proves our international solidarity, Hungarian help in overcoming the consequences of the Albanian earthquake, which is partly done by sending professionals and partly by helping renovations. I feel that these three areas also prove the activity and effectiveness of Hungarian foreign policy. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-10-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. Minister Péter Szijjártó responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go.
u2019-12-10-39	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Ladies and gentlemen, In the world there are amazing changes in strength, depth and speed. This is true of both world political and global economic processes. New alliances are being formed, friendships that are believed to be unbreakable are being transformed into the past. Formerly pitiful regions and countries become dictaters of the pace of global economic change and, in the past, the leading countries of the world economy face major challenges. In these turbulent circumstances, the most important aspect of foreign policy decision-making for a medium-sized country such as Hungary is that we do not miss the direction of the compass, and this compass can only show the direction of national interest. If we give in to temptation for one minute, even for a moment, to give in to the move towards easier international relations, to the temptation to take up fewer conflicts, then we should really step back in terms of representation of national interest, which we are certainly not willing to do. I would like to assure Mr Group leader and all Members of Parliament that, in the course of the Hungarian foreign policy decision-making, our decisions will continue only in the national interest, accepting the necessary conflicts, of course, on each issue. If I may, Your Honour, I would like to respond briefly to what you have said about Albania. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that our principle is to bring help where there is trouble. In this way, after the earthquake that hit Albania, 12 Hungarian static engineers have already worked and are working in Albania on the basis of the Albanian party's explicit request to make clear decisions on which buildings are worth renovating, which, unfortunately, cannot even be refurbished for further use. [[10.20]] In addition, we support the Roman Catholic Archbishop of Tirana with EUR 250 000, or some HUF 80 million, whose four churches have suffered very serious damage in the earthquake; more than 135 thousand Catholic believers belong to the community of the Archbishop of Tirana-Durrës. As a Christian country responsible for the difficult Christian communities, we decided to renovate damaged churches for more than HUF 80 million. I would like to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, in the relations between NATO and Ukraine, that what Ukraine has done and is doing to the Hungarian national community in Transcarpathia is unacceptable. It is true that legislation that seriously violates the rights of the Hungarian national community was adopted during the term of office of the previous President, but we must see that there has not been any change during the term of office of the new President. In fact, I have to tell you that, according to the continuous information from the Transcarpathian circles of Hungarians, the pressure on Transcarpathian Hungarians continues to increase, and the Ukrainian secret services are playing an increasing role in this growing pressure exercise. We reject this, we ask ourselves, and we strongly ask the leadership of Ukraine, the relatively new Ukrainian President, to take the political decisions that will bring back the rights of the Hungarian national community in Transcarpathia, and that Hungary and Ukraine's bilateral relations can return to the former. Our position is supported by the report published last week by the Venice Commission on the law governing the use of Ukrainian minority languages. In its conclusions, the Venice Commission calls on the Ukrainian party to review the law on the use of minority languages and to suspend its application until the minority law is adopted in Ukraine. I would like to say the question to my fellow Member, Mr Olivio, in the context of the speeches before the agenda, and I had no way to answer that, yes, the question of Ukraine came up at the NATO Summit, we made it clear that we will block and veto the further advances of NATO and Ukraine until the Ukrainians meet their international obligations, which, by the way, have also been undertaken towards NATO, to continuously improve respect for minority rights. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And last sentence: you were right, Congressman, that Huawei, as a Chinese company, is building infrastructure 5 G in Hungary, but the fact is that it did not quote the second half of the sentence: it does this on the basis of a contract with Vodafone, which is one of the largest British companies. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-10-40	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Barna Pál Zsigmond, representative of Fidesz, asked for a speech before the agenda entitled News Affairs. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-12-10-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We all remember it, because it was not so long ago when tens of thousands of illegal migrants entered our territory and raided our lands, occupied our public spaces or highways. In the absence of documents, they were unable to identify themselves, and in a very interesting way they were all called the same and were born at the same time, typically on 1 January. The safety risks associated with the uncontrolled entry of masses of men of military age predominantly under 30 years of age were evident to everyone. Recognizing this threat in 2015, instead of organising endless and unsuccessful meetings in Brussels, the Government of Hungary took the first substantial steps to curb or at least significantly reduce illegal migration. For this reason, of course, we got cold and warm because we did not want to discuss how we could bring more people into the continent and how we could distribute them, but we wanted to discuss how we could protect the external borders of the Schengen area and bring help to where it is needed, not to bring trouble here. The Hungarian government's migration policy seems to have worked, as we can capture migrants who have committed border crossings at the green border with great success even at the moment of border infringement or in the immediate vicinity of border areas. Although the participants of the large opposition collapsing from Gyurcsány to Christmas have, in many cases, Bagatellized the immigration crisis affecting the whole of Europe and tried to force the migrant quota on our country, the Hungarian people said no to the mandatory quota by an overwhelming majority. In 2016, we sent a clear message to the migrant-friendly domestic opposition and Brussels bureaucrats. Even though some EU Member States are trying to bring this issue back to light, György Soros is visiting Brussels again and again to share his inspirational thoughts on migration, we Hungarians, by a 98 percent majority, said no to mandatory distribution between Member States. Our position on this issue must be clear and firm: in Hungary, the Hungarian people should decide whether or not they wish to accept foreign cultures into the country. No one in Brussels can order or order us to do this. While our country is chosen for internationally recognised tourism or security policy journals, Europe or sometimes one of the safest countries in the world and Budapest as its capital, people visit a Christmas market in fear of when they are being attacked; or we can see that the methods of terrorists throughout Europe are always one step ahead of the authorities. Today they don't drive into busy streets or spaces with trucks anymore, they don't drive with trucks filled with explosives into pedestrians anymore, but they hit peacefully with a knife the size of a hand, if any. Ladies and gentlemen, We can see that most of Europe is blind to the threat of terrorism caused by illegal migration. Did you think just a decade ago that some popular French, German or Belgian Christmas fairs could only be approached after a clothing screening through metal detector gates? I suppose the answer is no. And the question is: is this really the kind of Europe we dreamed of ourselves? Do we really want the Christian culture in Europe to collapse and watch it happen? Because if this is not what we want to give to our children and grandchildren, then there must be a united response to Europe's defence. I sincerely hope that if a really stronger wave of migration reaches our southern border than ever before, then the Government of Hungary will continue to do everything in its power to ensure the safety of the Hungarian people, and our border hunters, policemen and defence will be able to effectively defend the borders of the country, as they have done in recent years. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-10-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary Károly Kontra responds to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-12-10-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Migration pressure on the southern border of Hungary has increased significantly, and tensions are increasing in this area. In the Western Balkans, 100,000 illegal immigrants have been overrun, which is a serious risk for Central Europe, including Hungary. In addition, 398 thousand illegal cross-border attempts were reported from Turkey by mid-November, 128,000 more than last year. In Slovenia, 14,000 illegal immigrants were registered in the first ten months of the year, 72 percent more than in the same period last year. This 14,000 migrants went through Croatia to Slovenia because the southern border of Hungary is protected by a fence. There are currently 30,000 migrants in Serbia waiting to cross the border. I would also like to draw attention, Mr honourable Member, honourable Parliament, to the fact that the number of illegal migrants has also increased in Hungarian populated areas around the Hungarian border. We hope that the Serbian authorities will be more involved in the fight against illegal migration and ensure the safety of the people living in the Hungarian settlements in Serbia. So, as I said, migration pressure on the southern border of Hungary has increased, tensions have increased, and last week, with my colleague, Szilárd Németh, we were convinced of this during the visit to the southern border. We have found that in every way migrants are trying to enter Hungary by digging through land, air, water and tunnels. The police charged two tunnels, one at Asotthalom in Csongrád County and the other at Cichéria in Bács-Kiskun County. [[10.30]] I would also like to say that in 2018, 6500 illegal migrants tried to enter Hungary. This number doubled, more than 12,800 illegal migrants wanted to get in by 30 November. Another alarming data: in December, the number of illegal experiments exceeded 100 people per day. In particular, 128 people tried to enter Hungary illegally during yesterday. The Hungarian border hunters, policemen, and soldiers unitedly prevented this. I would also like to reassure the Honourable Parliament here and say that the Hungarian authorities, the police, border hunters and soldiers are doing everything they can to ensure that no illegal migrants enter the territory of Hungary. You mentioned the quota. Unfortunately, the issue of quota has come up again as a possible solution. We completely reject that. In the 2016 quota referendum, as you said, 98 percent of the Hungarian people clearly took a stand against this. We say today, too, that help must be brought to where the trouble is, not to bring trouble here. The Government of Hungary is doing everything in its power to ensure the safety of the Hungarian people. We also know that we are alone in this fight, because Gyurcsány, Christmas and the entire anti-immigration opposition stand by the migrant quota. [[Rushing and interrupting from Jobbik's ranks.]] Three years ago, they even tried to prevent the Hungarian people from giving their views on this in a referendum. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Today, security is the most important community value, and Hungary is a safe country. I stress that the Government of Hungary provides all the conditions in order to ensure that border hunters, soldiers and policemen can effectively protect the borders, protect Hungary and the Hungarian people, as this is our most important national interest and value, so that we can protect the safety of the Hungarian people. For this reason, in September, the government extended the crisis caused by mass immigration again, which provides an appropriate legal basis for the protection of the border. I would also like to thank the police, border hunters and soldiers who defend the country's independence, the security and freedom of the Hungarian people so effectively. Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks. Move.]]
u2019-12-10-44	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. With all due respect, I would ask my fellow government and opposition Members to take their seats, and I would ask that private conversations be suspended, because there is a lot of noise in the room. Dear Parliament, In accordance with the derogation from the house rules adopted yesterday, Imre Ritter's speech before the agenda will now take place in five-minute time: the first minority 25th Anniversary of Election of Local Governments. I give the floor to Mr Ritter Imre, a representative of nationality, who describes his first sentences in his ethnic language, thus in German, and then translates them into Hungarian. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-12-10-45	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! 25 Jahre ist ein Menschenalter, eine ganze Generation. Morgen ist der Tag des 25-sten Jubiläums der ersten Wahl der Minderheiten, Nationalitäten Selbstverwaltungen. Erlauben Sie mir bei dieser freudigen, festlichen Gelegenheit einige Gedanken mit Ihnen mitzuteilen. Mr President, Dear House, 25 years is a lifetime. Tomorrow is the 25th anniversary of the election of the first minority and minority self-governments. Allow me to share some thoughts with you on this joyous occasion for us to celebrate. The Fundamental Law of Hungary states that the nationalities living in Hungary are state-creating factors. Any Hungarian citizen belonging to a nationality has the right to self-identify and preserve his/her identity. Nationalities living in Hungary have the right to use their mother tongue, to use their own language and community names, to cultivate their own culture and to teach in their native language. Nationalities living in Hungary can create local and national self-governments. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In Hungary, the legal basis for the establishment of minority self-governments was established in 1993 by the Hungarian Parliament at LXXVII. By adopting the Act on the Rights of National and Ethnic Minorities, declaring that the right to national and ethnic identity is part of universal human rights, the specific individual and Community rights of national and ethnic minorities are fundamental freedoms, they are respected and enforced. 25 years ago, during the municipal elections on 11 December 1994, national and ethnic minorities living in Hungary were first given the opportunity to choose their local minority self-governments. Representatives of local minority self-governments, so-called electors, then elected the general assemblies of the first national minority self-governments at the beginning of 1995. The Bulgarians, the Roma, the Greeks, the Croatians, the Poles, the Germans, the Armenians, the Romanians, the Ruthenians, the Serbs, the Slovaks and the Slovenians took advantage of the law, and in 1998 the Ukrainians formed their municipal and national minority self-governments. The amended 1993 LXXVII. Law gave Hungarian nationalities the first opportunity to choose middle-level minority self-governments during the 2006 minority elections. This has created a unique system of national minority self-governments in Europe, which provides a system-wide representation of nationalities living in Hungary guaranteed by law. The successful work of national minority self-governments is also confirmed by the fact that the Association of National National Governments could receive the Justitia Regnorum Fundament from the Commissioner of Fundamental Rights just yesterday, to which I congratulate you. Similarly to the introduction of the minority self-government system 25 years ago, the parliamentary elections of 2014 five years ago were historic in the life of our nationalities, which resulted in the parliamentary representation of the Hungarian nationalities with more than 20 years of default. As a result of the work of Parliament's representation, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, in the first three years, we ensured the conditions for the basic functioning of our national governments and our ethnic associations by increasing national minority support by about four times, and in the last two years, we have established the future of our children and grandchildren in their nationalities by drawing up and launching the minority educator program. On behalf of Hungarian nationalities, I would therefore like to thank Hungary's policy for these extremely positive changes, the positive decisions of the Hungarian governments, the previous and today's Hungarian parliaments, for the unanimous support of the proposals of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities in all cases, and for taking the issues of nationality out of the political battles. May God keep their good habits in the future, for we will need them for a long time. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-12-10-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Miklós Soltész, State Secretary, responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-12-10-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Ladies and Gentlemen, Speaking in Parliament! First of all, I would like to thank you for the voice that we have gotten used to from you and which, unfortunately, is not always typical in this Parliament. A few minutes ago, for example, the speaker of Jobbik, the Dialogue, spoke screaming about love, solidarity, screaming about things that are important to us and important to all of us. I think that the voice that you represent here in Parliament, the attitude that you represent, certainly gives us the opportunity and hope that Hungarian political life can, in some respects, be cleansed through nationalities, and the result, in my opinion, is the many, many changes that really started 25 years ago through the local government. [[10.40]] But the result is also the many, many changes that, continuing to do this, whether in institution-keeping, cultural life or in the organisation of communities, the nationalities do for Hungary, for their common country, but I add that they will also do their job and provide assistance to Hungarians living abroad. I would also like to thank you specifically for that. And if I can use numbers to support all of this all the way back to 2010, then there's a huge change. When you think about the fact that in 2011, 644 thousand people said they belonged to nationality, this is a huge number, even because the number of people who claim to belong to nationality has increased by one and a half times compared to previous periods. It's a big deal. To my knowledge, it is unique in Europe that there has been an increase in the number of people who are involved in nationality. And why is that? Because the Hungarian policy, and it must be said that the system of support for the last ten years has changed so much for the benefit of nationalities, the possibilities of reservation have been strengthened to such an extent that it strengthens our communities. As a result, in recent years, the support of Hungarian nationalities has increased by five times since 2010, to the end of the 2020 budget. As a result, we have been able to take a lot of steps from kindergarten to increase opportunities to camp in the country of matter, to encourage children, to get used to language learning and to strengthen them. The possibility of school maintenance is increasing, since they had 12 kindergartens and schools in 2010, and now 91. They have increased opportunities in kindergarten educator training and teacher training, in order to stay in place and stay here, by the way, mostly German ethnic language teachers. This will help the work that we have started together, and will also be helped by what means cultural institutions and public education institutions, together with cultural institutions. In 2010, 44 institutions were maintained by nationalities, and now 132. This number says it all. I think it shows the activity, the strength you represent, but on the other hand, on the part of the Hungarian government and on the part of the majority of Hungarian people, it has it in your direction. I would like to thank you here, both for the national authorities, for the initials and for the present ones, for the fact that we have been able to do all this work together. And I would also like to thank the 12 parliamentary spokespersons, the former 13, and you, as a Member, for doing this service, for this task, and once again, as I began, for the tone that was struck, is normal and fair. It's much better to negotiate. In addition, I believe that this joint work affects foreign Hungarians, and hopefully also affects the decision-makers of the European Union, who have had the collection of signatures for years, and as a result we hope that the community of the European Union will stand up for indigenous minorities. I have less hope that this will affect some of the opposition here, because yesterday, for example, Ágnes from DK Vadai said that Hungarians across the border are expensive for us. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I didn't say that, but whatever. The president's ringing the bell.]] I can assure you that we, the pro-government representatives, Hungarian people don't cost much, neither do Hungarians across the border, we still have a job to do. God bless you. Thank you very much for your speech. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-10-48	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats and check that your card has been properly placed in the voting machines. It follows that T/6191 on the amendment of certain laws concerning the introduction of the Grandparent Childcare Fee will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/6191/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/6191/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 188 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6191/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 189 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The T/7690 on the amendments to the law necessary to simplify and electronicise certain procedures follows. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/7690/5 of the Legislative Committee's proposal for a summary amendment and T/7690/6 of its report. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rule is 48. Under paragraph 2 of Section T/7690/5 of the Act of Accession of the Republic of Croatia, the President of the Republic of Croatia shall, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Section T/7690/5 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, be subject to the conditions laid down in paragraph 2 of this Article. A separate vote was initiated on points 15, 63 and 65 in conjunction with points 16, 20, 50, 51, 57, 60, 64 and 66. First, we decide on the part of the summary amendment that requires a qualified majority, then on the points requested for a separate vote, then we decide on the further points of the summarised amendment proposal. We are now deciding on point 21 of the summarised amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of this will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/7690/5. Point 21 of the consolidated amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points of the summary amendment requiring a qualified majority by 180 votes in favour, 8 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of points 15, 63 and 65 in conjunction with a simple majority requested for a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/7690/5. Point 15, 63 and 65 of the proposed amendment, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the proposed amendments by 181 votes in favour, 8 against and without abstentions. We now decide on the adoption of points 16, 20, 50, 51, 57, 60, 64 and 66 for a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/7690/5. Point 16, 20, 50, 51, 57, 60, 64 and 66. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not accept the proposed amendments by 47 votes in favour, 141 against and without abstention. [[10.50]] We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/7690/5. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment, which require a simple majority, by 180 votes in favour, 8 against and without abstentions. In view, ladies and gentlemen, of the fact that Parliament has not just adopted all the points of the summarised amendment, we will decide, in the final vote, on the text of the bill which has been amended by the agreed points of the summarised amendment. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/7690. The provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority by 180 votes in favour, 9 votes against and without abstentions. We now decide on the parts of the amended bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/7690. The provisions of the amended bill, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a simple majority by 178 votes in favour, 10 against and without abstentions. Next up is T/8013 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the Family Protection Action Plan. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment T/8013/6, and its summary report T/8013/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rule is 48. Under paragraph 2 of Section T/8013/6 of the Act of Accession of the Republic of Croatia, the President of the Republic of Croatia is hereby appointed as a member of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of First, we will decide on the part of the summary amendment that requires a qualified majority and then on the point that has been asked for a separate vote. We will then decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, We are now deciding on points 20 and 21 of the summarised amendment that require a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of these will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8013/6. Point 20 and 21 of the consolidated amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 181 votes in favour, 8 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 25 of the summary amendment, which requires a simple majority, to be put to a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8013/6. Point 25 of the consolidated amendment proposal, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not accept the amendment point by 31 votes in favour, 143 against and 14 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8013/6. The points that require a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment, which require a simple majority, by 176 votes in favour, 13 against and without abstentions. In view of the fact that the Parliament has not just adopted all the points of the summarised amendment proposal, in the final vote we will decide on the text of the bill which has been amended with the agreed points of the summarised amendment proposal. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8013. The provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority by 180 votes in favour, 9 votes against and without abstentions. We now decide on the parts of the amended bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8013. The provisions of the amended bill, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a simple majority by 180 votes in favour, 9 votes against and without abstentions. It follows that H/8030 on the further participation of the Hungarian Defence Forces in international action against the Islamic State terrorist organisation. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of the proposal for a resolution requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present under Article 47 (2). I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/8030. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 153 votes in favour, 29 against and 5 abstentions. It follows that T/8033 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the management of assets and certain provisions concerning the management of assets. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the Legislative Committee's proposal for amendment T/8033/8 and its summary report T/8033/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rule is 48. Under paragraph 2 of Section T/8033/8. A separate vote was initiated on points 28, 36, 39 and 41 in conjunction with points 34, 35, 38 and 40 in the series of amendments. First, we will decide on the part of the summary amendment that requires a qualified majority and then on the points requested for a separate vote. We will then decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. We are now deciding on points 26, 27, 29, 33, 37 and 43 of the summarised amendment that require a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of these will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8033/8. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 32 against and 23 abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of points 28, 36, 39 and 41 in conjunction with a simple majority requested for a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8033/8. Point 28, 36, 39 and 41 of the consolidated amendment proposal, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the proposed amendments by 134 votes in favour, 9 against and 46 abstentions. [[11.00]] We are now deciding on the adoption of points 34, 35, 38 and 40 in conjunction with a simple majority requested for a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8033/8. Point 34, 35, 38 and 40 of the proposed amendment, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the proposed amendments by 147 votes to none, with 42 abstentions, without a vote in favour. [[For signal:]] He refused. I'm sorry. For the record, I'd like to correct it: you rejected it. We are now deciding on the points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8033/8. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 133 votes in favour, 15 against and 41 abstentions. In view of the fact that the Parliament has not just adopted all the points of the summarised amendment proposal, in the final vote we will decide on the text of the bill which has been amended with the agreed points of the summarised amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8033. The provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 32 against and 29 abstentions. [[The scoreboard contains 134 affirmative votes, 32 negative votes, and 23 abstentions.]] We now decide on the parts of the amended bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8033. The provisions of the amended bill, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 31 against and 24 abstentions. Dear House, The National Film Institute Public Use Nonprofit Zrt. will follow the various laws. T/8037. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/8037/5. and the summary report by T/8037/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 3, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 16, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the part requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8037/5. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 133 votes in favour, 24 against and 29 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8037/5. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 133 votes in favour, 26 against and 26 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8037/7. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 135 votes in favour, 27 against and 25 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8037/7. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted 135 yes, 27 no against and 24 abstentions. T/8017 on the amendment of certain laws in order to simplify the functioning of the metropolitan and county government offices Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/8017/7. and the summary report by T/8017/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the Group of Dialogue proposed the continuation of Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mr Kocsis-Cake Olivio. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] On the basis of paragraph 1 of this Article, the Dialogue Group has proposed that Amendment 3 be maintained. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mr Kocsis-Cake Olivio. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 50 votes in favour, 134 against and 3 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rule is 48. Under paragraph 2 of Section T/8017.7. A separate vote was initiated on points 8, 58, 60 and 61 of the consolidated amendment proposal No 57. First, we will decide on the part of the summary amendment that requires a qualified majority and then on the points requested for a separate vote. We will then decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. We are now deciding on points 1, 2, 7, 42 and 63 of the summarised amendment that require a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of these will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8017/7. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 52 against and 1 abstention. We are now deciding on the adoption of points 8, 58, 60 and 61 in conjunction with a simple majority requested for a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8017/7. Point 8, 58, 60 and 61 of the proposed amendment, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not accept the amendment points by 6 votes in favour, 181 against and 1 abstention. [[11.10]] We are now deciding on the adoption of point 57, which requires a simple majority, as requested for a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8017/7. Point 57 of the proposed amendment, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment point by 133 votes to 54, with no abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8017/7. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment, which require a simple majority, by 132 votes in favour, 53 against and 1 abstention. In view of the fact that Parliament has not adopted all the points of the summary amendment in the recent votes, we will decide, in the final vote, on the text of the bill with the agreed points of the summarised amendment. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8017. The provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 53 against and 1 abstention. We now decide on the parts of the amended bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8017. The provisions of the amended bill, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a simple majority by 132 votes in favour, 54 against and 1 abstention. The 2018 CXXV on Government Administration follows a series of steps. Act CXXV of 2018 on Government Administration. T/8019 on the amendment of the Law Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. A summary of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment T/8019/4, and its summary report T/8019/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 55, 56, 57, 58, 60, 61, 68, 72, 83 and 109 of this Decision, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the part requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8019/4. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 31 against and 21 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8019/4. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 33 against and 20 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8019/6. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 32 against and 22 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8019/6. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 32 against and 22 abstentions. The T/8020 on special status bodies and the status of persons employed by them follows. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/8020/4. and the summary report is T/8020/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rule is 48. Under paragraph 2 of Section T/8020/4 of the Act of Accession of the Republic of Croatia A separate vote was initiated on points 48 and 49 of the proposed amendment. First, we will decide on the part of the summary amendment that requires a qualified majority and then on the points requested for a separate vote. We will then decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in point 44 of the summary amendment proposal, the bill is set at 100. The adoption of the provision laying down paragraph 4 of Section 4 and point 50 shall require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8020/4. A qualified majority of the amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the parts of the summary amendment requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 53 against and 1 abstention. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 48, which requires a simple majority, of the draft amending proposal for a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8020/4. Point 48 of the summary amendment proposal, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment point by 133 votes to 53, with one abstention. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 49, which requires a simple majority, as requested for a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8020/4. Point 49 of the proposed amendment, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament rejected the amendment point by 1 vote in favour, 184 votes against and 1 abstention. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8020/4. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment which require a simple majority by 133 votes in favour, 54 votes against and no abstentions. [[11.20]] In view, ladies and gentlemen, of the fact that Parliament has not just adopted all the points of the summarised amendment, we will decide, in the final vote, on the text of the bill which has been amended by the agreed points of the summarised amendment. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/8020. The provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 53 against and without abstention. We now decide on the parts of the amended bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/8020. The provisions of the amended bill, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 53 against and without abstention. It follows that T/8016 on the amendment of certain laws in connection with the establishment of single-level district office procedures will be followed. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/8016/8. and the summary report by T/8016/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, the Group of the LMP proposed the continuation of Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group. A qualified majority is required for maintenance. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 51 votes in favour, 134 against and 2 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is required for the acceptance of rows 9-11, 13-16, 18-22, 24, 26-39, 41-52, 75 and 77 of points 81, 5-10, 13-16 and 18-25 of this Regulation, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the part requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8016/8. A qualified majority of the amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not accept the parts of the summary amendment requiring a qualified majority by 105 votes in favour, 81 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8016/8. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not accept further points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 4 votes in favour, 53 against and 128 abstentions. In view of this [[It's constant noise.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to pay attention to the fact that the Parliament has just not adopted the summarised amendment, and in the final vote we will decide on the text of the bill submitted. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the bill requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8016. The provisions of bill No 1 requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the bill requiring a qualified majority by 135 votes in favour, 52 against and without abstention. We are now deciding on the parts of the bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8016. The provisions of bill No 1 which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the bill requiring a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 53 against and without abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, T/6455 on the amendment of certain laws relating to Hungarian citizenship follows. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/6455/4. T/6455/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rule is 48. Under paragraph 2 of Section T/6455/4. A separate vote was initiated on points 11 and 12 of the proposed amendment. First, we will decide on the part of the summary amendment that requires a qualified majority and then on the points requested for a separate vote. We will then decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. We are now deciding on point 7 of the summary amendment which requires a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of this will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6455/4. Point 7 of the consolidated amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points of the summary amendment which required a qualified majority by 177 votes in favour, with nine abstentions, without voting against. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 11 of the summary amendment, which requires a simple majority, to be put to a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6455/4. Point 11 of the summary amendment proposal, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not accept the amendment point by 24 votes in favour, 134 against and 29 abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 12 of the summarised amendment, which requires a simple majority, to be put to a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6455/4. Point 12 of the summary amendment proposal, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment point by 158 votes in favour, with 28 abstentions, without voting against. [[11.30]] We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6455/4. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 176 votes in favour, no votes against, with 10 abstentions. In view of the fact that the Parliament has not just adopted all the points of the summarised amendment proposal, in the final vote we will decide on the text of the bill which has been amended with the agreed points of the summarised amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6455. The provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority by 177 votes in favour, no votes against, with 9 abstentions. We now decide on the parts of the amended bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6455. The provisions of the amended bill, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a simple majority by 179 votes in favour, no votes against, with 8 abstentions. T/7692 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the European Border Registration System and the European Passenger Information and Authorisation System for legal harmonisation Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/7692/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 3, 4, 7 and 8, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the part requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/7692/5. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 180 votes in favour, no votes against, with 8 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/7692/5. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 180 votes in favour, no votes against, with 8 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/7692/7. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 179 votes in favour, no votes against, with 9 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/7692/7. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 180 votes in favour, no votes against, with 8 abstentions. Next up is the T/7845 on irrigation farming. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/7845/15. and the summary report by T/7845/16. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform the House that the house rules are set at 48. § 4 of the Jobbik Group proposed that amendments 6, 8 and 10 be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 6 is proposed by Zoltán Magyar and Tibor Nunkovics. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment with 56 yes, 130 no votes and 1 abstention. Amendment 8 is proposed by Zoltán Magyar. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment with 53 yes, 132 non-voting and 1 abstention. Amendment 10 is proposed by Tibor Nunkovics. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment with 57 yeses, 130 no votes and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform the House that the house rules are set at 48. Under paragraph 2 of Section T/7845/15, the author is entitled to take part in the proceedings of the President of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the President of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the President of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the European Union. A separate vote was initiated on point 28 of the summary amendment proposal. First, we will decide on the part of the summary amendment that requires a qualified majority and then on the point that has been asked for a separate vote. We will then decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. We are now deciding on point 17 of the summarised amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of this will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/7845/15. Point 17 of the consolidated amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted 171 yes points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment, 16 votes against and without abstention. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 28 of the summary amendment, which requires a simple majority, to be put to a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/7845/15. Point 28 of the summary amendment proposal, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not accept the amendment point with 38 yes, 146 no votes and 4 abstentions. [[11.40]] We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/7845/15. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment which require a simple majority by 170 votes in favour, 18 against and without abstentions. In view of the fact that the Parliament has not just adopted all the points of the summarised amendment proposal, in the final vote we will decide on the text of the bill which has been amended with the agreed points of the summarised amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/7845. The provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority by 171 votes in favour, 17 against and without abstentions. We now decide on the parts of the amended bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/7845. The provisions of the amended bill, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a simple majority by 168 votes in favour, 18 against and without abstentions. T/8014 on amending and repealing provisions relating to the entry into force of Act No... of 2019 on Vocational Education and Training Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/8014/9. T/8014/10. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 4 of the draft amendment, the author initiated a separate vote on points 4 and 101 of the summary amendment proposal, and the DK Group initiated a separate vote on points 15, 18 and 20 of the summarised amendment proposal. First, we will decide on the part of the summary amendment that requires a qualified majority and then on the points requested for a separate vote. We will then decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. We are now deciding on point 109 of the summarised amendment, which requires a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of this will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8014/9. Point 109, which requires a qualified majority, of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the qualified majority point of the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 16 against and 37 abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 101, which requires a simple majority, for which a separate vote has been put to the vote by the rapporteur of the draft amending proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8014/9. Point 101, which requires a simple majority, of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not accept the amendment point by 22 votes in favour, 145 against and 20 abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 4 of the simple majority requested by the rapporteur for a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8014/9. Point 4 of the summary amendment proposal, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not accept the amendment point by 20 votes in favour, 145 against and 21 abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 15 of the summary amendment requested for a separate vote by the DK Group, which requires a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8014/9. Point 15 of the summary amendment proposal, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment point by 185 votes in favour, 1 against and without abstention. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 18 of the summary amendment requested by the DK Group to vote separately, which requires a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8014/9. Point 18 of the consolidated amendment proposal, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment point by 186 votes in favour, 1 against and without abstention. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 20 of the summary amendment requested by the DK Group for a separate vote, which requires a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8014/9. Point 20 of the proposed amendment, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment point by 187 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8014/9. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 133 votes in favour, 40 against and 14 abstentions. In view of the fact that the Parliament has not just adopted all the points of the summarised amendment proposal, in the final vote we will decide on the text of the bill which has been amended with the agreed points of the summarised amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8014. The provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 40 against and 13 abstentions. We now decide on the parts of the amended bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8014. The provisions of the amended bill, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a simple majority by 131 votes in favour, 42 against and 14 abstentions. The next step is the T/8029 on the amendment of individual laws in relation to defence issues. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/8029/4. T/8029/5 and T/8029/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 2, 3, 6, 8, 16, 17, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the part requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8029/4. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 156 votes in favour, 32 against and without abstentions. [[11.50]] We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8029/4. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment, which require a simple majority, by 156 votes in favour, 32 against and without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8029/6. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 153 votes in favour, 32 against and 2 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8029/6. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 154 votes in favour, 32 against and 2 abstentions. It follows that T/8041 on the amendment of individual laws for harmonisation purposes will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment T/8041/7, and T/8041/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the Group of Dialogue proposed the continuation of Amendment 3. That's what we're voting on first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Kocsis-Cake Olivio. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 37 votes in favour, 131 against and 20 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rule is 48. Under paragraph 2 of Section T/8041/7, the author is entitled "T/8041/7." A separate vote was initiated on point 6 of the summary amendment proposal. First, we decide on point 5 of the summarised amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority and then on the point requested for a separate vote. We will then decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. We are now deciding on point 5 of the summarised amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8041/7. Point 5 of the consolidated amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points of the summary amendment requiring a qualified majority by 135 votes in favour, 53 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 6 of the summary amendment, which requires a simple majority, to be put to a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8041/7. Point 6 of the proposed amendment, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not accept the amendment point without a vote, 187 against and 1 abstention. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8041/7. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment, which require a simple majority, by 134 votes in favour, 54 against and without abstentions. In view of the fact that the Parliament has not just adopted all the points of the summary amendment proposal, we will decide, in the final vote, on the amended text of the bill. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8041. The provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 51 against and 3 abstentions. We now decide on the parts of the amended bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8041. The provisions of the amended bill, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a simple majority by 129 votes in favour, 52 against and 3 abstentions. T/8044 on the amendment of certain laws concerning the functioning of Parliament and the status of Members. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/8044/17. and T/8044/18. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the Jobbik Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 10, 11 and 12, the LMP Group Nos 8 and 9, the Dialogue Group Nos 6 and 7 and the DK Group Nos 6, 7 and 8. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment No 10 is proposed by Mr László Lukács and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 134 votes against and 1 abstention. Amendment 11 is proposed by Mr László Lukács and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 54 votes in favour, 133 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 12 is proposed by Mr László Lukács and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 132 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 8 is proposed by György László Lukács and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 52 votes in favour, 133 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 9 is proposed by Mr László Lukács and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 54 votes in favour, 133 against and 1 abstention. [[12.00]] Amendment 6 is proposed by Mr László Lukács and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 54 votes in favour, 132 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 7 is also proposed by Mr László Lukács and his fellow Members. A qualified majority is required for maintenance. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 54 votes in favour, 134 against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 2 to 9, 13, 14 and 21 of this, ladies and gentlemen, the decision will be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the part requiring a qualified majority, which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8044/17. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament voted in favour of the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 135 votes in favour, 54 against and without abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8044/17. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment which require a simple majority by 135 votes in favour, 54 against and without abstention. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Their adoption requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8044/22. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 135 votes in favour, 54 against and without abstention. [[Gergely Harvesto: Shame, shame!]] We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8044/22. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament's provisions requiring a simple majority of the single proposal [[Gergely Harvesto: Scandal, shame!]] By 135 votes to 54, with no abstentions. I will ask my fellow Member not to yell at me, and we are in the middle of a vote, and everyone must pay attention. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We're voting right now! You can't punish him until February 1st!]] It is now up to 10/2014 on certain house rules. H/8042. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the decision and the final vote. The legislative committee's proposal for a summary amendment H/8042/15. H/8042/16. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraphs 8 and 9 of the Jobbik Group and 10 of the LMP Group, the Group of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 6, 5 and 5, 6 and 7. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 8 is proposed by György László Lukács and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 54 votes in favour, 134 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 9 is proposed by Mr László Lukács and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 134 votes against and 1 abstention. Amendment No 10 is proposed by Mr László Lukács and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment with 55 votes in favour, 133 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 6 is proposed by Mr László Lukács and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 131 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 5 is proposed by Mr László Lukács and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 53 votes in favour, 133 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 7 is proposed by Mr László Lukács and his fellow Members. A qualified majority is required for maintenance. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment with 55 votes in favour, 132 against and 1 abstention. Dear House, As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. [[Gergely Harvestó: You can think about it!]] I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the Legislative Committee H/8042/15. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 134 votes in favour, 55 against and without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that pursuant to Article 5 (7) of the Fundamental Law, the adoption of a single proposal requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/8042/20. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote. István Szilárd Németh: Oh, children, how much money they will pay!]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 135 votes in favour, 54 against and without abstentions. Following the eighth amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, T/7991. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment and final vote. T/7991/6. Number T/7991/7 and its summary report T/7991/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[The representatives of DK and MSZP stand up, turn their backs and leave the meeting room.]] We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament. [[12.10]] I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/7991/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 165 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, pursuant to Article S (2) of the Fundamental Law, the adoption of a proposal to amend the Fundamental Law requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/7991/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 165 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The election of the members of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority follows. Allow me to pay tribute to the candidates, their family members, all the permanent guests of the Parliament, our guests who are attending our present meeting. On the basis of the motion of the ad hoc committee to appoint members of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, the Speaker of Parliament is S/8410. has presented its proposal to the European Parliament and to the Council. I would like to ask Mr László Földi to explain that. Here you go, notary.
u2019-12-10-49	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The National Assembly is CLXXXV of 2010 on media services and mass communication. Law 124. Pursuant to Article 1 (1), László Budai, Dr. Ágnes Hankiss, László Meszleny and Károly Szadai are elected members of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
u2019-12-10-50	Dear Parliament, The 2010 CLXXXV on media services and mass communication. Law 124. Pursuant to paragraph 1 of the Act, the National Assembly elects four members of the Media Council for nine years simultaneously, with an open vote on the list, with two-thirds of the Members of Parliament present voting in favour. Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept S/8410. Proposal 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] On the basis of paragraph 2 of this Article, four members of the Media Council shall be elected by the Parliament for nine years by a simultaneous, listed, open vote, with a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept S/8410. Proposal 1. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the proposal by 134 votes to 29, with no abstentions. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Dear Parliament, Allow me to wish the elected members good luck and the results of their work. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the President of the National Court Office to vote in secret. Allow me to give a special welcome to the candidate of the President of the Republic, Dr. György Seneyei Barna and members of his family, all the permanent guests of the National Assembly, our guests who attend our meeting. I would like to inform the House that Dr. Tünde Hando has resigned from the office of President of the National Court of Justice in view of his election as a constitutional judge. The President of the Republic János Áder proposed the President of the National Court of Justice in his transcript of 2 December 2019. I would ask Mr László Földi to present the transcript of the President of the Republic. Here you go, notary.
u2019-12-10-51	- For Mr. László Fat. Mr President, I inform you that the 2011 CLXI on the organisation and administration of the courts pursuant to Article 9 (3) (j) and Article 25 (6) of the Fundamental Law. Subject to the provisions of the Act, I propose the following to the President of the National Court of Justice. Dear Parliament, Pursuant to Article 9 (3) (j) of the Fundamental Law and Article 25 (6), the 2011 CLXI on the organisation and administration of the courts. Subject to the provisions of law, I propose to the President of the National Court of Justice a Judge appointed for an indefinite period by Dr. György Seneyei Barna. Budapest, December 2, 2019 Sincerely: János Áder
u2019-12-10-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the Justice Committee has heard the candidate and supported his election. The candidate's CV is S/8356. 1 and the opinion of the Committee S/8356/1. can be viewed on the House's website for all of us. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that Parliament elects the President of the National Court Office with two-thirds of the votes of the Members for nine years. On the basis of the proposal put forward by the Speaker of Parliament, the decision will enter into force at the time of its adoption. Under the provisions of the Act on Parliament, the candidate shall be elected by secret ballot. Dear Parliament, The process of secret voting is as follows: the ladies and gentlemen of Congress can take the ballots on the Danube corridor, in alphabetical order according to the names of the Members, in four groups. I would like to inform you that in the sectors, you can receive a piece of ballot paper and an envelope. Please confirm the fact of receipt on the sheets placed at the tables. I would also ask you to use the polling booths at the end of the corridor during the vote. I would also ask you to place your nomination on the ballot paper in the box 'yes', 'no' or'stay'. Now I would like to ask Mr László György Lukács to briefly explain the rules of the vote and, with respect, my fellow Members, to remain in their seats and to listen to the notary's information. Here you go, notary.
u2019-12-10-53	Dear Parliament, The only way to vote is with the official ballots. A valid vote shall be deemed only to be the one placed on the candidate on the ballot paper, with two incisive lines placed in squares with his name attached to his name. The vote on which the Member has voted shall not be valid and shall not be beyond reasonable doubt. The vote that was not cast on the official ballot paper, which lacks the stamp, or if the voter takes the ballot, but does not throw it into the ballot box, is null and void. I would like to inform you that if anyone fails to fill out the ballot paper, the members of the ballot counting committee at the ballot box will include it and replace it with a new card.
u2019-12-10-54	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, During the voting period, only Members and members of the working group involved in the vote shall be allowed to remain in the Danube corridor of the Chamber. I announce that 40 minutes are available for the cast of votes, so it is possible to do so for 12 hours 58 minutes. The results of the vote are expected to be presented at 13:15. Dear Parliament, I'm ordering the secret vote.
u2019-12-10-55	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Have a seat. Dear Parliament, I declare that the ballot counting committee has completed its work. He noted that 164 Members took part in the secret vote. The notaries concluded that the voting procedure was valid and effective for the candidate. On the person of Dr. György Seneyei Barna, 164 representatives cast their votes based on the number of ballot papers found in the urn. Their distribution is as follows: the number of invalid votes 1, the number of valid votes 163, the number of votes yes 151 , the number of non-votes was 12, no abstentions. On this basis, the National Assembly elected Dr. György Seneyei Barna as President of the National Court Office. Dear Parliament, Now it is the solemn oath of the President of the National Court of Justice and the signature of the oath papers. I ask Dr. György Seneyei Barna to come to the centre of the Chamber and take his oath. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to read the text of the oath, and the Honourable Parliament to listen to it standing up as usual. Mr. Messenger! [[The people in this room stand up. Dr. György Seneyei Brown steps into the middle of the room. Dr. Lajos Szűcs reads the words of the oath.]]
u2019-12-10-56	I, Dr. György Seneyei Barna, pledge to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; to exercise my position as President of the national court for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2019-12-10-57	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The oath papers will now be signed. I would ask Mr Attila Móring to prepare the oath papers for signature, and Dr. György Seneyei Barna to sign them. [[It's happening. Attila Móring, who signed the oath document, congratulates Dr. György Seneyei Barna and gives a copy of the signed oath document. Dr. György Seneyei First Viktor Orbán, then Dr. Zsolt Semjén, Dr. István Hiller, Péter Ungár, Máté Kocsis, Péter Harrach and István Jakab congratulated him.]] Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of Parliament and myself, to wish Dr. György Seneyei Barna an effective work, good health and good luck. [[Dr. György Seneyei Brown: Thank you very much. László Kövér congratulates Dr. György Seneyei, who has left the Chamber. Applause.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The members of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority will now be solemnly sworn and the oath papers signed. I ask Dr. Ágnes Hankiss and Mr. László Budai, László Meszleny and Mr. Károly Szadai to come to the centre of the Chamber and take their oath. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to read out the words of the oath, and I would ask the Honourable Parliament to hear it standing up as usual. [[The people in this room stand up. László Budai, Dr. Ágnes Hankiss, László Meszleny, Károly Szadai steps into the center of the room. Dr. Lajos Szűcs reads the words of the oath.]]
u2019-12-10-58	Me, László Budai/Dr. Ágnes Hankiss/László Meszleny/Károly Szadai I accept that I will be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, keep its laws and keep them; I will exercise my position as member of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God. [[13.30]]
u2019-12-10-59	Dear Parliament, The oath papers will now be signed. I would ask Mr József Attila Móring to prepare the oath documents for signature, and I would ask the elected members of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority to sign them. [[It's happening.]] Dear Parliament, Allow me to congratulate the elected officials on behalf of the Parliament and myself, and wish them every success in their work. At the same time, I thank our dear guests for their participation. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Now, at 1:37 p.m., we move on to interpellation negotiations. Dear Parliament, Brenner Koloman, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior. When will the situation of the horror caravans finally be resolved? It's an address. Congressman Brenner Koloman has the floor.
u2019-12-10-60	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, In the summer of 2019 I asked the Ministry of the Interior with a written question about who keeps order on the Hungarian motorways. I would like to begin by thanking you for the answer to my written question, but unfortunately I cannot accept its content. My question was what strategy the Hungarian police have on motorways only in relation to the reduction of irregular road users, mostly Romanian or other Balkan residents, known as horror caravans. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]] I, for the most part, met on the M1 motorway many times that a Romanian train, at 90 speed, suddenly pulls the steering wheel into the left lane; the feeling is indescribable. I was told that in 2018, 11 468 cases were fined for trucks breaking the prevention ban between 6:00 a.m. and 1004 times in the morning, and that the irregular load of vehicles was sanctioned 1004 times. These are indeed high figures, but to date, a big news report on a serious accident has been published on the Hungarian motorways. This time, I would like to ask the relevant Secretary of State a number of questions. Do you consider the sanction system effective enough to allow the penalty to be imposed on the punished Romanian, Bulgarian and other irregulars? Do the current sanctions have enough deterrent powers to reduce these horror caravans, which is in our common interest that we should be able to drive safely on the Hungarian motorways, should we increase the level of penalties? [[13.40]] Is there a statement that, let's say, in the last year, and slowly already in 2019, how many vehicles were foreign, and how many people actually paid the penalty? After all, it is not so easy to collect these international penalties. In our opinion, the full sanctions need to be reformed, as they are usually traders who bring old cars from Germany or other Western countries to Romania, Bulgaria, Serbia and the rest. And it is most likely that the extent of this punishment has already been calculated in their business plan, if I may say so. So our question here is how we should implement a reform of punishment in this matter, and we believe that it is, which is a deterrent. After all, once again, it is in the common interest of all of us to finally be able to travel safely on the Hungarian motorways. I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's substantive reply. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-10-61	Thank you, Congressman Brenner. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2019-12-10-62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Security is the most important community value, and the safety of transport is an important part of this, for which the police of Hungary are taking all the important steps, and the necessary means are available. But we also see the need to examine the amendment of legislation and the tightening of sanctions in order to reduce infringements. We are committed to the safety of the Hungarian people, and I trust that we can take these steps and that road users will be safer. If you agree, then accept my answer. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-10-63	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute chance, Congressman.
u2019-12-10-64	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I thank you with respect for your substantive response and, of course, for the review and tightening of the sanction on behalf of the Jobbik faction, I assure you of my support. And I would like to point out once more that the efforts that I have read are being taken with regard to information to the competent Ministry of the Interior; that is to say, there is a prevention ban on trucks in Hungary. Because we see, I think, that we all do not respect this much on the Hungarian motorways either, and that we should expect very serious penalties to be imposed by those who threaten the safety of Hungarian people on Hungarian motorways. I accept your reply with respect. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-10-65	Thank you. Congressman Brenner accepted the answer. Dear Parliament, István Hiller, Member of the MSZP, Vice-President, submitted an interview with the Minister of Human Resources:. On Language Learning and Foreign Language Knowledge. Mr István Hiller, Vice-President, Member of the Council, has the floor.
u2019-12-10-66	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Your Honour, Secretary of State. According to government announcement, students can apply for foreign summer language courses in a few months from 1 February 2020, when 9th and 11th grade young people can learn English, German and other languages in a foreign language environment. There's nothing wrong with that. Indeed, with this announcement, they were obliged to announce another news almost simultaneously, that they would withdraw five years after the original decision and would abandon their plan to have secondary language examination required to enter higher education institutions. This clearly proves that the education policy of the last nine years and their ideas on foreign language education have failed completely. If we add that more than 91,000 people in higher education cannot pass their degrees because they do not have at least one foreign language secondary language exam, it is clear that this is a failure. I repeat this issue with respect: dear fellow Members, there are 91 thousand adults in Hungary who have completed their higher education studies, but who do not have a foreign language degree. Learning students in a foreign language context is a good idea in itself. The method of implementation, as far as you can know now, suggests, however, that it is not another unsuccessful attempt. Our students are scheduled to attend 20-25 hours of language courses during a two-week stay of nearly 90 000 people, i.e. 14 days abroad, with a budget requirement of HUF 90 billion reported in the press. I'd like to ask you what this is. 'Cause if it's a foreign trip, it's a little expensive for $90 billion. But if you learn a language in 20-25 hours, it's not enough. Then I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State, that you really want to teach students abroad in 20-25 hours for 90 billion forints. Did they agree with professional organisations, and what do they intend to do in domestic public education for teaching and improving foreign language? Thank you so much for listening.
u2019-12-10-67	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2019-12-10-68	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You spoke of a bankruptcy in education and language education, honourable Member. I would like to offer you a few numbers, say, the performance of Hungarian students in the last ten years. If you look at the results of the English graduation exam, it has risen from 63 percent to 68 percent, if you look at it in the advanced exams, it has risen from 70 percent to 77 percent. If you look at it not only in the language area, then you can see that in the last PISA survey, Hungarian students have been able to make progress in all three measuring areas, and I think we should be glad that trends have finally turned around in Hungary. Not only has the deterioration stopped, but it has turned around, and the results of Hungarian students are finally on an upward course in this area as well. Obviously, an educational transformation does not take one and not two years, but results in many, many years, PISA measurements are made every three years, and now we can finally get a good picture of it. If the results were negative, that's what you'd be talking about day and night, both in the media and here in Parliament. But since it was a good result, for some reason, they don't like to talk about it so much. Hungarian students have made progress in both text understanding, mathematics and science. We are now the first part of the world's most advanced countries in each of the OECD countries on the basis of measurement. Compared to the 2015 results, we were 35-47th in text understanding, and now we're 28-38th. We were in mathematics at 35-39, now in 31-37. We were in science at 34-39, now we're in 24-34. And, perhaps one of the most important things, he confirmed that it was worth the state reservation, and it was worth it that we tied the family allowance and school support to school attendance, because the difference was reduced between the best and the worst performing students. In English, who comes from a family in difficult circumstances, he can now hold on better and reach at least on the average level. This is also due to state reservations, family allowances to attend school, free textbooks and free meals. But you looked at the points of national competence measurement, you saw that Hungarian students were able to improve noticeably. If you are looking at an international survey, the TIMSS survey of mathematics and science, the fourth-grade eighth-grade students have also made a noticeable advance. If you are looking at the PIRLS report, which also examines an international reading and interpretation report, the Hungarians were previously ranked 20th, we are now 13th in this international ranking. In all of them, thank God, Hungarian students can perform better. This is primarily due to students and teachers. But it is also due to the predictable environment in which teachers' salaries have increased and, moreover, the maintenance of schools in the new system is much more secure. Here, in these measurements are the feedback. So don't say, please, that there's any kind of bankruptcy worth talking about. How did the decision of this two-week foreign language course come about? In 2016, a working group on the situation of foreign language learning was set up, and in 17-18 a wide range of foreign language research was carried out, which concluded that, if I wanted to simplify it, it was not important to increase the number of language lessons in terms of the efficiency of students, but to increase the means and motivation to be more motivated by the student to learn this language skills in a sufficient amount of hours. [[13.50]] It is therefore important to overcome communication barriers. Not in the two weeks that student will obviously learn English while he's in London, but he can overcome his communication inhibitions in those two weeks, overcome the anxiety he experienced during his use of language in those two weeks. In real situations, in these practical situations, you can meet your own foreign language skills and become more motivated, honourable Member. That is why it is important that what is not given to current students or their parents is given to the students of the future. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-10-69	Thank you very much, Secretary of State of Rétvári. I'll ask Vice President Hiller to accept the Secretary of State's answer. [[Peter Cseresnyés: Yes!]]
u2019-12-10-70	Mr President, No. Thank you very much for the proposal for a yes, but I have failed to convince you, and I would therefore like to justify it. What Mr Secretary of State himself says about the PISA report published in 2019 a few weeks ago is true. I just ask you to put this into the process, because the results have improved compared to the 2015 results, they are now there, as they were in 2013, but they are still nowhere from when they took over the governance. The current results are significantly weaker, Mr Secretary of State, than the 2009 survey, which was published by your government in 2010, and one of your predecessors thanked the teachers for ensuring this performance. The result is better than their own results, and it's still lousy compared to ours. That's the thing. Please read it. They're nowhere compared to the 2009 score, so I don't accept it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-12-10-71	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'll ask the Parliament to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 112 votes in favour, 30 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Lajos Oláh, a representative of DK, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office:, have your government taken a role in solving the problems of the Party District? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Oláh is not in the room, so his interpellation is considered withdrawn. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, a representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: - What will the new year be like in the social sphere? It's an address. Congressman Péter Ungár has the floor.
u2019-12-10-72	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Several of you have seen the open letter "Let's move on." Public Use Association has been published, it has also appeared here on the various tables, which will be called "The Free Christmas for Home Care Families." There are three major and important problems that the social government has not been able to solve in recent years. In spite of the increase in weed, it is currently the case in Hungary that families who do 0-24 hours of home care work receive 38,000 and 58 thousand forints, who tend to older people most of the time, so they do not take care of their children at home. By the way, raising this to the minimum wage was my fellow Member Mátrai's proposal in 2004. That was a very good proposal, and unfortunately, Fidesz has voted off your proposal since then. This proposal should be implemented and these people would be able to receive a minimum wage. The second is that there has been a great deal of abuse in the review of your children. Many families who, by the way, deserved this amount, have fallen out of the home - care fee for children during the study of the weeds because they do tireless work. But I would go further: apart from home assistance and support services, it is also a problem that social sector wages are the lowest wages in the public sector, that you negotiate with the social sector at the Deputy State Secretary level, and that you do not allow social workers to take advantage of their right to strike under the Fundamental Law. The fact is that today in Hungary, a medical educator with 15 years of working experience earns HUF 154 thousand net in the FENO or ÉNO of a town with county rights in Western Hungary. If you move 30 kilometers to Austria, you'll make more money than the head of the institution. No wonder there are more than 10,000 vacant jobs in the social sector. The fact is that it would require between 60 and 70 billion resources primarily to reduce these problems in a fire-fighting manner. I have this in this budget at the moment, but you and I are not going to start making populist comparisons with much more unnecessary money spent on other things than getting this 60-70 billion for the social sector. The fact is that home care people do a tremendous, tireless job. They can't go on vacation, they can't go to Lake Balaton for three days. Yes, it was right to raise the weed to the minimum wage level. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Since then, in order to ensure a uniform minimum wage for all home care providers, my dear fellow Member Nacsa, Fidesz voted for it four times. Four times! So before Mr. Secretary reads that two-year-old bored panel again, I'd like you to answer that question to the HUF 38,000 and HUF 58,000 instead of pretending that everything is okay in the social sector, and these people will get what they deserve. You keep humiliating these people, and you don't even sit down with social workers. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-10-73	Thank you, Congressman Ungar. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2019-12-10-74	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We agree that the work of people who help other people in need, whether homeless, disabled, elderly or sick children, deserves constant recognition both morally and financially. But this is as far as I can agree with you from your own speech. What stood out from his speech to me, and I think to those in Parliament, is that there is a long shadow of great sin. Those who, almost exactly a year ago, did not vote for the increase in the care fee, nor for the introduction of the foster child, nor for the introduction of the child's care fee and the radical increase of the year-on-year, but here they tried to create various scandals instead, for those who did not, and do not, think that this is forgotten by the people involved. Don't look down on people so hard, they'll forget that in a year. Indeed, it is the burden of a difficult conscience that they stand up and demand things that the government has already fulfilled. Only when all you had to do was to come to your seats in Parliament, to sit down, or even to stand there, to whistle and yell, but to press that yes button, which you did not do almost exactly a year ago, a year ago, without two days, honourable Member, because for you it has always been more important to you than to help these people. The government, on the other hand, also considered the child care fee important. We believe that serious matters are worth talking about, not clowning, as you often do. For this reason, not only before 2018, we raised the care fee for the most serious people in health condition by 52 percent, since we introduced a new category, the special care fee, and those who at least nursed their own children at home for 20 years, we also introduced a pension supplement of HUF 50,000, but we went beyond that. As far as budget figures are concerned: you know, when we started governance, on this budget line, the care fee was HUF 15 billion. When we radically increased the care fees last year, we are spending HUF 27 billion on this, not HUF 15, but HUF 45 billion this year. The budget adopted for next year, which you also did not support, does not contain HUF 15 billion in 2015 but HUF 55 billion for this purpose. We have done all this, and we have raised these items so that we can increase the care fee by 30 percent for all those who care for their relatives in the next few years, and I believe that none of us would like to be in a situation like this, and those who are in such a situation are in maximum solidarity with us, because what they are doing is a superhuman activity, not a job, but a sacrifice, and this year we have introduced 100 thousand forints. Although you did not support this, next year we will increase this to HUF 124 000. That is why there is an increase in the budget lines, and in subsequent years, as you have said, let this be the same as the minimum wage, and we voted in favour of this, this allowance will reach the minimum wage level by 2022, honourable Member. [[14.00]] It would have been good if there had been consensus in this Parliament, if all Members of Parliament could at least vote together on this issue. I think that every voter, right-wing, left-wing, pro-government, opposition would have been pleased if the 199 Members of Parliament had agreed to this together. That this failed before Christmas last year, unfortunately, you have failed, honourable Member. There is such a resource, a 3.5-fold resource, to give every person who really cares for his child and can't work, and the child can't take care of himself, so that everyone can benefit from this benefit. We spend 413 billion forints more on social benefits than our predecessors in the budget adopted next year. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] If you watch only one year, you will experience a surplus of HUF 53 billion. That's why we're raising wages by 84 percent. We would like to raise this further. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-12-10-75	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman Ungar to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2019-12-10-76	I don't accept the answer. Let's talk consensus. In 2004, when you were in the opposition, it was a very well-developed proposal by Márta Mátrai that everyone should have the minimum wage, not only for those who care for their children at home, but also for any relatives at home. Why doesn't this have a national consensus? It was a fidesz proposal; I ask you to support it, we all support it. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Let's be serious about serious matters.]] Here is the fellow Member who saw this situation very well at the time. The thing is, he was right then, and he would be right now. I ask you to support a fidesz proposal, because at the moment, again, whatever you say and read the numbers, those who care for their elderly relatives with dementia will receive 38 and 58 thousand forints. That's the fact. You can say anything, you can go to News Television and tell them everything's okay. How do you solve it? Let's accept Márta Mátrai's fidesz proposal, let's put it up again, and I'll support it. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-10-77	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman, you didn't accept the answer. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 113 votes to 31, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Sándor Burány, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade:. Currently, how many forints per cubic metre do we purchase natural gas from Russia? It's an address. Mr Sándor Burány has the floor.
u2019-12-10-78	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Dear House, Minister of State recently stated that, in order to ensure the long-term safe supply of gas to Hungary, we have a fundamental interest in a long-term, predictable and reliable cooperation with Gazprom, and that we are therefore ready to start negotiations with Gazprom's leader on a new long-term gas supply agreement. However, in order to decide whether the Hungarian energy consumers really have an interest in such a contract, it can only be decided in the light of the terms of the contract, but the Orbán government keeps these conditions from the public. Hungary is currently receiving gas from Russia on the basis of a gas supply contract which expired in 2015 and has since been extended several times since then. The price, despite our repeated questions and persistent interest in the media, is unknown. More precisely, it is calculated on the basis of such a complicated formula that even the specialised press could not order a clear gas price. Thus, the Hungarian public has no indication of the price and conditions at which you are importing gas from Russia. [[The notary seats are occupied by Attila Móring József and Dr. László Varga.]] The suspicious signs, on the other hand, are multiplying. A few years ago, the Orbán-owned MET gained a net profit of HUF 50 billion on importing Russian gas into Hungary. This could still be seen as a one-off, although consumers still face significant losses. In addition, we can hardly leave without saying that in the meantime the Hungarian gas storage capacity bought back for hundreds of billions of public money has been made available to the Russian gas exporter Gazprom by the government, and that alternative gas transmission capacities built out of a similar amount will not be used in substance. Both steps serve to preserve the monopoly position of the Russians, which is hardly a Hungarian interest. The attentive viewers also noticed that the Hungarian consumer gas price is now permanently higher than the free market gas price, on which Hungarian gas consumers lose hundreds of billions a year. We don't know whose pocket that amount is going into, which is why it would be important to know the import price. So please answer some simple questions. 1. How much forints per cubic meter do we currently purchase natural gas from Russia? 2. After the construction of alternative purchasing channels, what is the reason why we commit ourselves to a single supplier for decades that already plays an unhealthy role in Hungarian energy supply? 3. At what price would you like to conclude a new contract compared to the current price? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2019-12-10-79	Thank you, Congressman Sándor Burány. I give the floor to Minister Péter Szijjártó.
u2019-12-10-80	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, If I may, I would like to present to you the contractual structure on which Hungary's gas supply is based. A 100%-owned subsidiary of the 100% state-owned MVM Group, which deals with natural gas trading, is called MFGK, Magyar Gazgázkereskedő Zrt., is connected through Panrusgáz, which is half MVM's, and half of Gazprom's trading subsidiary Gazprom's, called Gazprom Export. This is the contractual structure. This may seem suspicious and complicated, but the fact is that this contractual regime was concluded by you in 1996. Therefore, the legal predecessor of MFGK and the predecessor of Grazprom Export concluded in 1996 a 20-year long-term gas purchase contract based on the so-called take or pay method, which means that a fixed amount should be called down or paid even if it is not required. This contract would have expired in 2015 in the way you rightly mentioned. At the same time, the Hungarian state and the Hungarian state's companies would have owed Gazprom Export 70 billion forints, given that the amount of gas equivalent to that amount of money was not called by the Hungarian trading company in the 20 years before. That's when we decided to agree with the Russians to maintain the agreement. So it was not that we have extended the scope of the contract several times, but that we agreed that until we use this HUF 70 billion amount of gas, we will keep the contract alive. I think we made the right decision not to give Gazprom 70 billion forints for nothing, but we agreed that we would buy it then. This will be done around the end of 2021 according to current calculations. By 2021, the currently open option is 1.5 billion cubic metres. As far as the price is concerned, honourable Member, you have said it correctly. Once again, under the Socialist Government, under your government, the contract was concluded, which seems in terms of price, to determine the current gas price by an average of two ratios. One is an oil-indexed dollar/gigajoule index and the other is a stock-indexed euro/megawattor. The gas price comes from the combination of these two. So, honourable Member, I think you know as well as I do, and certainly better than I do, because you have been dealing with this issue in the past, that it is changing within the day, so it is changing every minute in the day. In such cases, the trading company has a continuous task. This continuous task is to keep this variable price within the day below the retail gas price, which is determined in HUF/ cubic metres. Obviously, it is a very important tactical question in the course of further gas negotiations about the price, so I would like to ask you, as a Member of Parliament at MFGK, to have the opportunity to look into the price, you will have this opportunity there, and you will be able to do so. I only ask that we do not deal with this in public because negotiations are currently taking place on the future of Hungary's gas supply, and if we find out how much gas we have bought for under a contract you have concluded, it can cause significant harm to the interests. But I think it is right here to say to everyone that you, as a Member of Parliament, can look at this price and see its progress within the day. You won't get a specific number on how much you have to pay today, you'll get a price rise. As regards the question of why we want to be committed: we do not want to be committed. But we also built an interconnector towards Croatia and towards Romania. [[14.10]] Croatia and Romania are allies of the EU and NATO. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] But none of the countries have taken the necessary steps and measures to buy natural gas from there. So it's not up to us. If the Croatians, Romanians, Austrians and Americans take the steps to buy gas from there, there is no need to conclude a long-term gas purchase agreement. [[The president's ringing again.]] On the other hand, if these projects are not implemented, we will have no choice but to enter into new negotiations with Gazprom in order to ensure the security of long-term gas supply. Thank you for asking, thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-10-81	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman Burány to accept the Minister's answer. [[Intercoms in the benches of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-10-82	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. I must say that, in three minutes, this is what the interpellation framework allows me to ask you about a specific price, and the Minister avoided it for four minutes to name a single specific price. [[An uproar in the pro-government benches. Crying from the ranks of Fidesz: Shame on you!]] I'd like to tell you. [[Rumble in the benches of the governing parties.]] Members, I would like to recommend that simple fact to your attention, because I see that you have lost your ability to think. [[The president's ringing the bell. Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Oh, how kind.]] that the price of tomatoes is constantly changing on the market, yet the KSH is able to establish the index of price increases and the average price is good? So you should consider this a little bit, too, and give us the numbers that Hungarian public has the right to know. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Which company do you represent?]] Don't make a fuss. Don't talk about structures and gigajoules. Give clear amounts even in the form of an average price [[Constant noise and interruptions in the pro-government benches.]] Or tell me why they want to hide it. For whose sake are you keeping secrets? And you're all accomplices in this. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-10-83	Dear Parliament, Congressman Burány did not accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'll ask the Parliament, they'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial reply by 114 votes in favour, 11 against and 16 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Mónika Dunai, Member of the Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources: When do the students of Gothar assume responsibility? It's an address. Congresswoman Mónika Dunai has the floor.
u2019-12-10-84	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Recently, it was discovered that Péter Gothár, director, who had been involved in a political, sexual harassment case in the colours of SZDSZ, later admitted himself. [[Rumble in the benches of the governing parties. Crying from the benches of Fidesz: That's right! Péter Ungár: Is this the investigating authority?]] According to the news of the past period, it has also been revealed that the head of the balliberal citadel Katona József Theatre, Gábor Máté, has been aware of the case for a year, but he has done everything possible to cover it up in complete silence. He also acknowledged this in his reply to the Secretary of State for Culture of Péter Fekete. [[Peter Ungár intervenes.]] He admitted that they were stalling to investigate and disclose the case. Gothar asked for an ethical examination of himself at his other workplace, University of Theatre and Film Arts. It also turned out that the victims did not dare to speak, since the theatre management had the actors working there sign a confidentiality agreement, including the victim and victims. [[Intruder from the benches of Fidesz: Shame!]] It is outrageous that the theater thus sought to protect the accused director, despite the fact that it was the Katona József Theatre that, at the start of the MeToo campaign, declared itself the leader in the fight against sexual harassment. [[Péter Ungár: This is the MeToo campaign, here! László Szászfalvi: We listened to you too!]] Now we see, ladies and gentlemen, that when the real scandal breaks out, the theatre deals only with how to save the well-known director instead of protecting the victims. In the past, the university tried to smooth the matter through the walls of the school instead of initiating an external investigation, and only after Péter Fekete questioned the directors of the theatre and the university. It is also strange, ladies and gentlemen, that when it comes to violence against women, the opposition often takes action in Parliament, but so far it has done nothing in the Gothar case. [[Intruder from Fidesz: That's right! Laszlo Szászfalvi: Listen to this!]] I see the Balliberal elite is trying to cover up Gothar's case. In this case, a full examination is needed to show how many victims there are, and the leaders of the institutions knew about them. It may also be appropriate to contact the authorities if the charge of sexual harassment is justified. An online petition was also launched on the matter. [[Péter Ungár: I wonder who answers.]] Dear Secretary of State, In view of what has been said, I would like to ask you what opportunities are available for such persons to be removed from cultural public life and what legal instruments are in place to ensure that these persons are held accountable. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-10-85	Thank you, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. State Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to the interpellation.
u2019-12-10-86	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Allow me to literally read an earlier statement. If one of the harshest forms of abuse of power, sexual harassment is without consequences, nothing will change in the country and society. If we do nothing today, then in 10 to 20 to 30 years' time, there will be some unspeakable traumas that will reveal that we did not act when we should have acted, that we did not defend the victims of sexual harassment, that we did not stand up for those who do not dare to talk about the shocks they have suffered many times alone. We believe in human dignity, and we find it unacceptable that it was László Marton then that László Marton can sit in a director's chair again with anyone's help. Signed: Bangóné Borbély Ildikó, Bősz Anett, Demeter Márta, Gurmai Zita, Hohn Krisztina, Kunhalmi Ágnes, Potocsáné Kőrösi Anita, Schmuck Erzsébet, Szabó Timea, Szél Bernadett, Vadai Ágnes, Varga-Damm Andrea. In a previous case, every Member, or one or two of every faction, raised his voice in defense of the victims, and asked that either the person who was then accused of such accusations should not subsequently be a theatrical person. And what did we see about Peter Gothár in the talk of Gábor Matthew or others? Cover-up, cover-up, cover-up. They knew about the case 11 months ago, and they didn't say a word, not at the Soldier József Theatre or at the university. They kept it quiet for 11 months, and now they're admitting that they knew about it. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: Shame!]] They referred to secrecy in the works council's regulations. They've had secret statements signed by people who knew about this case. They didn't stand up to protect the victims, they took statements of confidentiality. They made a statement that doesn't contain the unsub's name. The questions raised after the communication were not answered as to who the person was. When actors connected to the balliberal side or anyone else near a microphone or camera, he said that he had not heard of the case or had already been notified to the Katona József Theatre, he had nothing to do with it. Several pieces are still held at repertoire. Lot. Erzsébet Németh said she had nothing to do with it, she closed the case because there was no report. But all the other opposition representatives just kept quiet about it. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, After all, there is a responsibility for those who have known about this case for almost a year, but have done nothing to find out. They were just hiding it, hiding it, and when it came out, they were trying to smear it, and they were trying to hide the unsub because there was no psychic sighting of the unsub in the past few days. He may have given an interview or two to 24.hu, but it was also hidden and hidden. Every leader has a responsibility, honourable House, honourable Member; the leaders of the theatre, the leaders of the university, and the Balliberian politicians who have already been able to write a petition very well. And it was signed right away when it wasn't about a person politically related to them. How is it possible that those who are politically connected to the Balliberal Camp are hidden, while those who are not connected to them or are not considered to be connected to them are petitioned. How come at a series of events in this case yesterday, no one said a word about the Gothar case? No one said what happened at the József Soldier Theatre was wrong. No one said that what happened there could never happen at the József Soldier Theatre again. [[Noise and interruptions from opposition benches.]] How come leaders don't take responsibility that much? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Indeed, in this case, the responsibility and silence of the leaders and their cover-up must be discussed for a long time. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[14.20]]
u2019-12-10-87	Thank you, Secretary of State of Rétvári. I will ask Congresswoman Mónika Dunai to accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2019-12-10-88	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I accept your answer, thank you very much, but the response of the entire Balliberal opposition is unacceptable. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: That's right!]] Their answer is to cover in total silence and silence. This is unacceptable to all of us, to every woman and every woman and every man with a good feeling in Hungary today. Indeed, in the MeToo campaign and on the day and day of violence against women, you often stand up, plastering your mouths, drawing on yourself various seals and blue spots, when it comes to generality, raising your voice; when you have to manifest in specific cases, you have to declare specific events, and then you listen deeply. Thank you very much, and once again, I accept the Secretary of State's reply. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-10-89	Thank you, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. How do wage increases evaporate? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Minister for Finance Mihály Varga will respond to the interpellation on behalf of Mr András Tállai. You have the floor, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian.
u2019-12-10-90	Mr President, Dear House, As it is known, the continued weakening of the forint and its entry into a significantly weaker band compared to 2010 in 2012 are brutal, with hundreds of billions of dollars of expenditure per year for the Hungarian population, for the wallets of Hungarian families. Last week I told you that in the case of a smartphone that you call a luxury item, which I feel as a daily need, there could be a price difference of up to 30-40 thousand forints, just because of the weak exchange rate of the forint, as I told you, that buying an H&M dress in a shopping mall is not a luxury item; for such a piece of clothing, there could be a difference of 3-4 thousand forints, only because of the weak forint rate that you consciously maintain. I am not saying that the government alone is responsible for the exchange rate of a currency or currency, I am neither unprofessional nor irresponsible. But I say that by non-action they allow these harmful economic processes to expand, which results in a simple piece of imported fruit being 30-40 HUF the extra price to be paid at the cash register, simply because the Orbán government and the MNB have a common strategy to tolerate weak forints. According to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, this weak forint is good for exporting companies and we have no reason to argue with this professional comment; we need to examine who these exporting companies are. To quote the Prime Minister, who's good at this? Among the exporting companies, we find a minimal amount of Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, but there are a lot of multi-enterprises that this government benefits from infrastructure subsidies, job creation grants, non-refundable grants and numerous discounts that are inextricable, effectively exclude these companies from public burdens. If anyone is critical of the multi-level economic policy of the Gyurcsány, Bajnai governments, it's me. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] ; I cannot accept at all that these companies have been over-reciprocated, but I must add that the Orbán governments are going beyond even this insufferable rhetoric and are going beyond this insufferable behavior with the amount of discount they unduly give. And my fellow Member Font can laugh, but stand up and explain why they hold the forint exchange rate so brutally low, why the Hungarian population has to accept hundreds of billions of dollars a year for this, when on the other side they produce an artificial, papered increase in wages, but in reality this does not necessarily exist; when they also take away opportunities from the Hungarians by lowering the state leg of the housing savings, while keeping the 27 percent VAT in place, they tax the entire Hungarian population to carbon with an EU record VAT content. My question is that you have quantified these unjustified withdrawals [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] how much it costs the Hungarian population, according to the strategy of the Orbán government and the MNB, an extremely weak Hungarian forint. I'm looking forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-10-91	Thank you, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2019-12-10-92	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The government's aim from the beginning, from 2010 onwards, is to give people jobs instead of aid, and to finally make it worth working in Hungary, it is worth it to go to work, earn income and make a living from it. The government has therefore done everything in its power to make people's incomes more favourable, not only by increasing wages, but also by reducing their taxes and reducing their costs. Among these, I would like to highlight an important measure, the 2016 wage agreement, which has resulted in a significant increase in the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, and a substantial reduction in the employer's burden, which meant that employers had more resources left for wage development, and, as the figures show, this option has been used. The rapid and large-scale increase in wages indicates that the net income of children's children rose by 76.9 percent compared to 2010, more than 80 children's children, more than 90 children's children and more than 100 percent of the three children's children's children. The minimum wage rose from HUF 73 500 to HUF 149 500, as well as the guaranteed minimum wage. It is important to point out that real income, i.e. real income, means that we can buy more from our income, our salary, since 2013, so it has been rising steadily for 81 months. This means that inflation has exceeded since 2013. And what still shows that there is a significant wage rise, and that is also the case with pensions, and that they preserve their real value that the growth of residential consumption has been increasing for 76 months, in October 2019 it was 6.2 percent, and fuel retail is also rising by 9.8 percent. This also indicates that it is not true that people's wages are burning, disappearing, because if we just go into a store, try to park or shop in the store, right, especially before Christmas, then we can see that people do have income growth in their wallets. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] The wage increase. As far as exchange rate changes are concerned, the impact of exchange rate changes is, by the way, quite surprisingly minimal for inflation. Between 2002 and 2009, this was typically 5.3 per cent per year, this is now half as many as since 2010, and it is very important that exchange rate changes should have the greatest impact on technical articles and motor vehicles, although, if we look at it, the price of these chapters has fallen substantially compared to 2010. It is also important that it shows that people do not spend their money, that they have been able to invest 2,900 billion forints in residential sovereign debt in recent months. This means that the government's economic policy is right, with an increase in income and tax cuts, it will be possible to increase people's consumption and to increase savings. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-10-93	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State Tallai. I will ask Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa to accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2019-12-10-94	Mr President, Dear House, My request to the Secretary of State is that when we run the next round, he tries to collect this answer a little better. He explained for two minutes why Hungarian people spend more, and then he concluded that it also shows that Hungarian people do not spend their salary, because... I feel that we should give this subject a little more respect and try to find a little more coherent answers. [[14.30]] You don't put me in a position to decide on this issue, Mr. Secretary, because I asked you a question, but I didn't get an answer: did you calculate how much of the Hungarian people's money will be burned by the consciously weak forint exchange rate? You didn't want to answer that question, because you didn't want to or couldn't answer. I'll tell you this: the wage increase of around 10 percent, which could otherwise be saving, is largely due to the abolition of the cafeteria elements, which were then incorporated into the basic wage, but there is no cafeteria, so the worker does not take home 10 percent more money. If 10 percent were true, we would still be talking about the lowest wage growth in the region. I've got the line between us in my hand. You say on this smartphone that it's a luxury item, a luxury product, and you don't care that it's 30-40 thousand forints more expensive. I'm saying the 21st. This is part of our daily lives in the century, and everyone deserves not to be burdened with undue burdens, which is why I cannot accept this answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-10-95	Thank you very much. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 106 votes in favour, 27 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, István Simicskó, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, How do you evaluate the progress made in the field of health in recent years? It's an address. Mr István Simicskó, Member of the Council, has the floor.
u2019-12-10-96	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The aim of the current government must be to continuously improve the quality of life of people. This is also the aim of the health policy of the Fidesz-KDNP government, which is its basis, from prevention to primary care to hospital care, through emergency care to the development of screening tests. Thanks to the activities of the past period, the results are beginning to show. People's general health is beginning to show an improvement. Dear Parliament, The government has developed hospital and clinic care in central and rural regions in recent years. Let me give you a few examples. Since 2010, the government has replaced over a thousand ambulances. This is a huge achievement, I think, in itself, but it has also taken a number of measures, including in the field of CT and MR mentioned a lot, as since 2010, the government has spent almost 200 billion forints on such devices and this type of study. The government before 2010 took 600 billion forints from health care, charged 16,000 active hospital beds and closed down nearly 6,000 health care workers. After the municipal elections in October, it seems that the individual opposition leaders in Budapest and the new mayor want to continue what their predecessors did before 2010. The mayor announced a hospital stop, voted against the construction of the South Buda Centre Hospital, and took a decision. I ask the honourable Secretary of State what results have been achieved by public health programmes, screening tests, and in what areas the results of prevention appear. I respectfully ask where the development of health institutions is at national and Budapest level, especially with regard to the construction of the center hospital in South Buda. Thank you in advance for your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-10-97	Thank you, Congressman Simicskó. I give the floor to Secretary of State Ildikó Horváth.
u2019-12-10-98	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, [[Dr. László György Lukács: When we ask questions, you never come in!]] Thank you very much for asking, it is very timely for us to think about this. We were also appreciated by the European Commission. On a number of points in Brussels yesterday, there were negotiations when the various Member States told us what development directions are needed in health care and what is being done in accordance with Article 21 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. It is consistent with the technical knowledge of the century and with the needs of the people. In this, the European Commission recognises that the Hungarian government is on the right track and significant progress has been made. This is an extremely important confirmation to us that we are progressing and moving in the right direction in the indicators in which we do need serious and significant improvements. I would like to say as an example that we consider it a very significant step forward that the number of healthy life years expected has increased significantly in Hungary in the period 2008-2017. It is worth to take a 10-year period in the calculation, giving you a longer look at it. This means that men have grown by five years and women by two and a half years, based on the data of the HCSO. We consider it important that we now have very similar values for men and women, 59.6 years for men and 60.9 years for women. This has been preceded by a number of interventions that clearly have a very simple purpose: prevent the disease that can be prevented and avoid the disaster that can be avoided. The disaster we see now on a remote island in Asia can be avoided by the mass killing and inability to operate health care systems by measles epidemics. It is possible to graft the population at the level in which we are now the first in the European Union. In Hungary alone, there is more than 99 percent grafting in our vaccinations, in childhood vaccinations. We have been asked to present this as good practice for the European Commission. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] Thank you. I think it's important. Let's appreciate that we can be the best at something. We strive to be the best at many other things if this is about health care. I think it is important that the road we are on with organized public health screenings, breast screening, cervical screening and colon screening indicates a significant process, and we have been able to move up in terms of screening, and people already understand that it is worth going to the screening. I would also like to ask the Members present here to do what they can in their own territory, in their own environment, so that people can understand that it is worth accepting those invites sent for colon screening and that they should send the samples back. We already know that it saved over 200 people's lives from colon cancer, they've already gone through surgery, and we know that in over two thousand cases, we have now managed to stop that process in a precancerous state, that it didn't develop colon cancer. It's just going together. To be successful in this, it is necessary to help people who have received the invitation to respond positively, but who have not yet given a positive answer, to help them to understand it. I am committed, as a former lung doctor, and as a public health professional, and as a responsible leader in this chair, to extend screening for early lung cancer, low-dose CT screening as quickly as possible to the entire affected population. This is different from other screenings, it's risk factor-based filtering. This means that if we do this, we will belong in Europe to a few countries who, on the basis of available evidence, will do so early. We expect a lot from him. The last five years have shown that hundreds of people owe their lives to this screening test. I would like to highlight... [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Time's up, and I'm gonna finish this. Yes, we consider it very important to build a super-hospital, also because it is a super-supply option for XXI. We work for it in the century. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-10-99	Thank you very much. Thank you, Madam Secretary. I will ask Mr Simicskó to accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2019-12-10-100	Mr President, Dear Parliament, I don't want to make my answer frivolous, but since it was a super answer and a super hospital support response, of course I'll take it. This is the most important thing for the people of NewBuda to build the center hospital. I've been contacted by a lot of people lately. I'm glad the government is still on this path. I welcome the public health programmes that have started. If we can save just one life and extend people's lives, then we have not lived in vain, but we can see that these results are positive. I would like this work to continue, and I hope that the people of NewBuda will eventually experience the joys of this and see the successes. So I wish the health government good luck. Thank you very much for your reassuring reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-10-101	Thank you, Congressman Simicskó. Dear Parliament, This agenda is closed. We'll move on to immediate questions. Péter Jakab, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How long does the Government take advantage of people's patience? It's an address. It is for Congressman Peter James.
u2019-12-10-102	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Prime Minister, Well, I'm watching the news the other day, and I'm reading that Hungary is building two new hospitals. [[14.40]] Well, I'm telling you, finally, you've come to your senses, and then I'll read the news, and I can see that, yes, we're building two new hospitals in Kenya. Prime Minister, are you serious? So in Hungary hospital classes are being closed, in Miskolc they are about to close the obstetrics. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's not true!]] At St. John's Hospital, they collect for rubber gloves and toilet boards, at Heim Pál Children's Hospital, truckers hammer for thermometers, and you build hospitals in Kenya? God forbid, I checked to see if the Origo or the Lokal wrote it, because then it's definitely not true, but unfortunately it's true. Prime Minister, please decide whether Hungary is the first one for you, or Kenya, or Vietnam, where you, the Hungarian government, will build an oncology hospital for HUF 20 billion when 33 thousand sick people die of cancer every year in Hungary! Your Minister for Health also has the nerve to say that the whole world is envious of Hungarian oncological care. Prime Minister, do you agree with this? Do you agree that the death of 33,000 people is enviable? Or do you agree that visitors are to blame for hospital infections? Minister Kásler says it's not that there's no hand sanitizer in hospitals, it's that there's a visitor. Or do you agree that there's no toilet paper in hospitals because it's stolen? We can remember the Fidesz president of the State Audit Office said that hospitals have a good chance of stealing toilet paper while, let alone stealing it, they're collecting it to make it happen. In the meantime, you are talking about the European standard of health care in Hungary. Prime Minister, the thing is, with your big speech, we can just erase it, and with toilet paper, at the most, if we bring you in. So answer me, honestly. Where do all the social security that the Hungarian people are paying you for the rest of their lives, because they're not in health care, that's for sure! [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Is this the love you were talking about?]] I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-10-103	Thank you. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2019-12-10-104	Mr President, First of all, allow me to conclude that Professor Kásler obviously did more in his life for cancer patients than the entire Jobbik fraction combined. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] Accordingly, if you spoke with respect, I think it would be appropriate. No one has saved the lives of as many sick people from the entire parliament as our health minister. I think it would be right that when they choose their tone, the way they talk about it, they would consider this factor. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes. Tamás Sneider: We gave money for many cancer patients!]] We also know that every time there are immediate questions, I don't get questions, but we're dealing with simple bouts of bile and anger. I know you're a man with an incurable state of the art, and that's why you don't ask questions, but constantly provoke me. What I can promise you is that, as we have done so far, we will continue to bear this with pious patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-10-105	Thank you, Prime Minister. You have the opportunity to respond in return to Congressman Peter James.
u2019-12-10-106	Prime Minister! [[Robert Szigó: Don't shout!]] I don't know how many lives Minister Kasler saved, but how many lives you've ruined, I know. According to the latest OECD report, 38,000 of our countrymen die each year because they do not have access to adequate healthcare in time. And you say that Hungarian people die because they don't go to the doctor in time? Where do they live? How would Hungarian patients go to a doctor in time when an appointment is required? In order to clean up hospitals, it would take an extra 600 billion forints per year. You say no to this amount every year because you don't care about the sick man's life. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We're spending 770 billion extra!]] Just remember one thing, Prime Minister. Death doesn't choose, death doesn't ask who's on the right and who's on the left because the right survives. No! We're all victims of your health policy, Prime Minister, so you can draw your conclusions from this. Now there is only one question: Fidesz will bury the nation, or the nation will bury the Fidest; I will vote for the latter. Long live Hungary! Long live the Hungarians! [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. István Szilárd Németh: Completely insane! Dr. Pál Völner: You're a birth defect!]]
u2019-12-10-107	Thank you. The rejoinder is also due to the Prime Minister.
u2019-12-10-108	I must say with due modesty that after you have joined with Ferenc Gyurcsány's party, [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Pathetic!]] the only national party in the Parliament remained an alliance between Fidesz and the Christian Democratic People's Party. I think, Mr President, that health care is a serious matter and deserves serious debate. I suggest you take advantage of this opportunity, because both our Secretary of State and our minister are always at your disposal. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Kasler is never here! Dr. László György Lukács: You've been in there once for the past year and a half!]] Among other things, not to say such banal nonsense as you just said, because if you look at the numbers, it is quite obvious that since 2010, we have spent 770 billion forints more on health care than your new, furnished spouse, the Socialist Party, who have been called communists by their maiden names. Congratulations on this great alliance, by the way. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-10-109	Thank you, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: a budget fraud of HUF 800 million. Is the NAV investigating? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman Belling.
u2019-12-10-110	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister! There's a piece in the Private Kopó Crime magazine, and I'd like to ask you for your position on this and whether it actually contains reality. [[István Szilárd Németh: It will be a serious question!]] The story seems that after a lengthy operational investigation, the NAV West Transdanubian was not so funny, Prime Minister's Crime Directorate hit the members of the H. family, which controlled the Győr Roma minority self-government in almost a family business. The investigating authority began to investigate after six complaints, financial investigators suspected a commercial budget fraud and other economic crimes. The damage to the state may exceed HUF 800 million, but what happened goes beyond the facts of suspicion, the events are woven through local political interests, and the fate of the vulnerable, electoral fraud and the Roma community exploited by their own. The business consisted of the establishment of companies and associations, in which the family members, i.e. Horváth's mother, sister and then her child became executives, in particular with Győr-Szol Zrt. and the municipal company. The municipal company has become a reliable customer and these companies have been entrusted with public employment tasks. They have been contracted each year since 2012. According to the news, when President Géza Tibor Sági did not wish to use the service, the big man, just called Leader, intervened and took action to conclude new contracts. The fact that the reports have a basis seems to be well founded, as the family and family members' assets have been closed by the NAV for some HUF 200 million in recent years. Moreover, it stands out that we are talking about tens of millions or hundreds of millions of real estate and bank accounts owned by children, including underage children. So I ask Prime Minister, the statements of the article are true, there has indeed been an investigation against the President of the Győr Roma minority self-government. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] And you should know, Prime Minister, who is the Leader and the great man who regularly called in Győr [[The president's ringing again.]] So these contracts can be concluded?
u2019-12-10-111	Thank you very much.
u2019-12-10-112	I'm waiting for your answer.
u2019-12-10-113	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2019-12-10-114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I understand that it's the end of the year, and that's when a lot of people drop the chain, but we could still do something serious. You had to comment on a biliary leak and an outburst as a question, and you asked me for nothing less than to comment, if I understand correctly, on the allegations contained in an article by Private Chop. Are you serious? But even if I knew what it was about, I can only tell you that it is right for the authorities to do their job. I understand that's what you said the authorities were doing. If you wanted this to be a compliment, I'll pass this on. Secondly, I do not know or want to comment on an ongoing case, particularly a criminal case. On the other hand, I can comment on legally closed cases if you insist. Here, for example, is a judgment on tax evasion under the Medgyessy government in the case of Csaba Czeglédy. As I understand it, you're doing a background check on him right now. Are you sure the moral education of the left who employs data criminals is appropriate? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-10-115	Thank you, Prime Minister. You have the chance to rejoin the congressman. [[György Balla: What does the Grunting Dumpster say?]]
u2019-12-10-116	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Prime Minister! The holidays are really coming up. I don't know which movie he was watching. I didn't suspect anything, I didn't qualify anyone, I asked you a question. You are supposed to be the Prime Minister of this country, and I asked you, I think it is a very serious question, Prime Minister, if you think that this is okay then, that public money has been transferred to a Roma family, who, by exploiting their own, have cheated away the money by causing HUF 800 million of public damage. Could there be a basis for the suspicion that all of this has helped Fidesz play politics in Győr? And yes, current, Prime Minister, not only is Christmas coming, but the Győr interim mayor election, and I think the Győr people have a right to know [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] If these local actors are being investigated by the NAV, these crimes have been committed. [[Interview from Fidesz: Time!]] And I don't want any details of the investigation, Prime Minister, I asked you to confirm that the NAV has initiated or has not initiated this procedure. I'm still waiting for your answer. [[14.50]]
u2019-12-10-117	Thank you. The Prime Minister has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2019-12-10-118	I thought you said the NAV was investigating because you read it in a newspaper. If you do not see clearly, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in Hungary, in the Parliament, the Attorney General can also be interpelled and is happy to give you an answer. As to your idea that the Prime Minister should comment on pending NAV investigations, I think this is a mistake. On the other hand, not only do you read the paper, but I do, and I do know that there is one criminal case in Győr today that concerns your party. Congratulations on that. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-10-119	Thank you, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Gergely Harvesto has an immediate question, but he's not in the room. [[It's grumpy.]] Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What is his position on the Prime Minister's behalf? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2019-12-10-120	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Mr. Prime Minister, On a social networking site, Máté Kocsis said, [[István Szilárd Németh: How bakfty!]] worrying theatres are harassing theatres and, as such, the Fidesz-KDNP association will therefore support the Act on theatrical financing to be discussed today. My respectable question is that with this nasty generalization, with this nasty general dissatisfaction that violated the entire theatrical life of the Fidesz-KDNP faction leader, what do you think of this? [[Máté Kocsis: KDNP not!]] Sorry, Fidesz faction leader. I think such a statement is a legitimate insult to all people working in the theatre, from the director to the actor, to the dramaturging. I think it is right for everyone to expect the answer that our majority could be insulted by such generalizations as Gyula Bodrogi, György Cserhalmi or Piroska Molnár. I think that we are right to expect an answer to that. I look forward to your reply. Thank you.
u2019-12-10-121	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2019-12-10-122	Thank you, Mr. President. It's a nice day. First an outburst, then I'm asked to comment on the article in the Private Chop, and now I'm asked to comment on the words of my group leader. Undoubtedly, this is an ascending order. [[Deficit on the pro-government side]] But it's absurd when you're sitting here, and you can ask him anything at any time. I suggest you ask him a question, he's happy to be at your disposal. If you want to know what the Prime Minister thinks about Hungarian actors, I can assure you that I can only speak of them in the voice of the greatest recognition. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-10-123	Thank you, Prime Minister. You have the chance to rejoin the congressman.
u2019-12-10-124	Mr. Prime Minister, You have also said that my head of the group. Yes, I am curious about the opinion of the Prime Minister of the country when we talk about greats and greats such as Gyula Bodrogi and his companions. I think that if it's acceptable, but only if it's acceptable, I can say that it's female-beating KDNP, because it's the same generalization. Then I can say the same thing about KDNP, Cocaine, Fidesz, or I can say the same thing about slutty governing parties. [[Noise on the pro-government side.]] I think this is wrong, Mr President.
u2019-12-10-125	Congressman, withdraw the term.
u2019-12-10-126	Government parties using prostitution, if you will. But I don't think it's right, because it's generalization, and it's also smearing people who are clean, by the way. I therefore ask with great respect, Prime Minister, that you honor this House and honor its voters by expressing its personal opinion on the statement made by Matthew Kocsis. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-10-127	And I would ask Mr Csárdi to honor the House by choosing his words and expressions. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]] I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2019-12-10-128	I repeat, therefore, Mr President, that when it comes to Hungarian actors, I would like to speak in the voice of the greatest recognition. And speaking of Gyula Bodrogi, I must say that I have listened to your question and thought of Süsü. Thank you. [[Defiance and applause on the pro-government side. Z. Carpathian Daniel: Take it back!]]
u2019-12-10-129	Thank you, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Szabó Timea and Kocsis-Cake Olivio, representatives of the Dialogue, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: what is going on? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-12-10-130	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Last week, the ad hoc committee of the Media Council of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority met, to which all parliamentary groups could appoint members. The question is, of course, why could all the factions have nominated members of the committee, since in all four free seats four Fidesz chose their own people. Why did the opposition parties have to go if the Fidesz could solve it himself? Of course, the question is poetic. The Media Council is responsible for overseeing the media in order to ensure the functioning of the democratic public. But it is certainly not democratic that the opposition could not appoint any member of the Media Council. I wouldn't call it democratic publicity that public service television and radio are the mouthpiece of the governing parties. Former MTVA workers have declared that the instructions are coming directly from the Fidesz communications department, which is the current propaganda that needs to be heard, which is the opposition representative who needs to be discredited or slandered. But they don't pay attention to appearances, because they're the same slogans, the same words in these shows that your State Secretarys use here. Mr. Prime Minister, There's an order coming into MTVA who should be discredited and what propaganda should be heard? Is it hard to win elections like this? Would it endanger the power of Fidesz to allow one opposition member to enter the Media Council? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2019-12-10-131	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2019-12-10-132	I do not feel obligated or obliged to explain briefly the most fundamental constitutional requirements for the Media Council and media regulation. Therefore, I would just like to remind you that the Media Council is not under the government, the election of its members is a Parliamentary matter, and if you have a debate, I would ask you to discuss it with each other. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-10-133	Thank you, Prime Minister. You have the chance to rejoin the congressman.
u2019-12-10-134	Thank you. Well, Prime Minister, there's no need to hide behind these little legal reasons. You are the Prime Minister of Hungary, and you are obviously also overseeing your own faction, as we can see several times. Do you think it's democratic that no opposition candidate is allowed into the Media Council? Do you think this is compatible with the rule of law, democracy? After all, these parties have been voted into Parliament, half of the voters have voted for them to control you, to control your power. I was just asking how hard it must be to win a choice. But I could also ask how difficult it is to lose an election, especially in Budapest.
u2019-12-10-135	Thank you, Congressman. The Prime Minister has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2019-12-10-136	Thank you very much, I don't want to live with it. [[Bence of Turdai: How brave!]]
u2019-12-10-137	Dear Parliament, Péter Ágh, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. The Government prepared for another, even more drastic, migratory pressure at the southern border? It's an address. Minister Károly Kontra has appointed Secretary of State to respond to the urgent public task. I would like to ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding.
u2019-12-10-138	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2019-12-10-139	Congressman says yes. You have the floor, Congressman. [[15.00]]
u2019-12-10-140	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, In recent days and weeks, more and more worrying news has been heard that another wave of illegal migration, which is stronger than ever, can reach our borders. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Thanks to the Hungarian engagement!]] According to some reports, millions of illegal immigrants are stationed in Turkey. Their numbers grow unstoppable from day to day and from hour to hour. If all this were not a sinister sign, we should also note that in Greece more than 100,000 illegal migrants, tens of thousands in the Balkan countries, and according to the reports of our Hungarian brothers in Vojvodina, will be hiding in the immediate vicinity of our border. Hundreds of thousands of these immigrants terrorize the entire Balkan region, not only the settlements along the Hungarian populated border, but their lootings and aggressive manifestations. One of the most worrying facts, which unfortunately many do not even think about, is that about 90 percent of these illegal immigrants are grown, strong, under 30, military-age men. What if it is not a conscious occupation of Europe? The question arises whether anyone has already assessed the risk, except for the Hungarian government, of what it can do for our entire continent and for a Europe based on Christian culture, if we allow millions of young, possibly combat-trained men into the territory of the European Union without control? As we have seen Brussels' approach to the question, the answer is probably no. With the cold coming, there may be a risk that larger masses will start moving towards Hungary at the same time, and their intention to cross the border will be more aggressive than ever. In view of the above, I would like to ask the honourable Secretary of State that the government is prepared to contain another wave of migration, even on drastic scale. I'm waiting for your answer. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-10-141	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State.
u2019-12-10-142	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, At the southern border there has been a significant increase in migratory pressure, increasing tensions at the southern border. Last week, my colleague Szilárd Németh and I visited the southern border, and we were convinced that the Hungarian Defence Office, the Hungarian police and the Hungarian border hunters were prepared to prevent this increasing migratory pressure. If we look at the facts, we can say that in 2018, a total of 6500 illegal migrants wanted to enter Hungary illegally. This number doubled by 30 November of this year. If we consider the days of December, we can say that more than 100 illegal migrants try to enter Hungary illegally every day and try in the most varied way. Last time they dug a tunnel in two places, at Asotthalom and Cichéria, and they're trying to get in through it, but they're digging railway trains, trucks, border fences, boats, they're trying in every way, and then we haven't even talked about the smugglers we're definitely taking action against, but they're also using the services of human smugglers for illegal migrants. We can say that the number of migrants has indeed increased, as you said, in Hungarian settlements in Vojvodina. We asked the Serbian authorities to strengthen police protection and ensure that our Hungarian brothers across the border are safe. As far as we are concerned, I can say, Mr President, that the Government of Hungary provides all the conditions to ensure that the police, border fighters and soldiers can protect Hungary, the Hungarian population, the security of the Hungarian people. The conditions for this, the resources, the legal background will continue to be provided by the government in the future. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-10-143	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the chance to rejoin the congressman.
u2019-12-10-144	Dear Secretary of State, So the government is doing what the people authorized it to do. Let us not forget that the Hungarians once expressed their views on illegal migration in 2016. At that time, 98 percent of the people rejected the resettlement quota and rejected illegal migration. Therefore, despite the efforts of the pro-immigration opposition from Gyurcsány to Christmas to continue pushing these people to Hungary, the Hungarian government must do everything in its power to prevent attacks against the country both at home and in Brussels. Preparedness must be stronger and more effective than ever, since we must not forget what happened on 16 September 2015. At the time, they were willing to enter the country with violence. This pressure must be resisted. We can see what we're exposed to, climbing on railway cars, hiding through tunnels, crossing the river in the cargo bay of trucks, so we need our police officers, our border guards and our soldiers to protect our country. This determination will continue to be necessary in the future. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-10-145	[[Charles Kontra stands up.]] Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Tamás Csányi, representative of Jobbik [[Noise. Intercoms from the pro-government benches: Mr President, not yet! Antal Rogán: Rejoice! Gergely Gulyás: Not yet!]] You want to ask me an immediate question... excuse me, excuse me. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches: Let's hear it! Dr. Brenner Koloman: Extremely new, important information, surely!]]
u2019-12-10-146	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The danger is serious. In order to prevent this, the government provides all the conditions. The protection of the southern border must be strengthened, the conditions for this lively protection are given, as we have increased the number of police, border fighters are present, the defence is also present, and we also provide all technical means, the most modern technical means, in order to ensure the safety of the Hungarian people. We also hope, in view of Europe, that the new European Commission, which has recently been established, will change the European Union's migration policy, at last place the emphasis on border protection and expect Member States to protect the external borders of all EU Member States that have Schengen external borders. This is the basis for the disappearance of the Schengen internal borders and the right of free movement for all citizens of the European Union. Once again, honourable Member, I can assure you that the Government of Hungary provides all the conditions to protect the southern border and the security of the Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-10-147	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Tamás Csányi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How long does the Government abuse people's patience? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-12-10-148	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, Dear House, At the beginning of my question, allow me to formulate a fundamental thesis, which everyone knows very well, although you do not always consider to be the norm, and the thesis is that there are no two Fidesz. It is all the more important to emphasise this, because you are sitting in the ranks of Flórián Farkas, under whose Presidency the EMMI concluded an EU grant agreement with the National Roma Municipality. In the framework of the program called "The Bridge to the World of Work" ORÖ received HUF 1.6 billion for the foundation of a social cooperative. It turned out, however, that the money had been spent while no meaningful work had been done. The European Union Anti-Fraud Office, OLAF, sent its report to the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office a year ago, which clearly shows that the HUF 1.6 billion submitted by the National Roma Municipality for the settlement, I quote:, in the case of the total amount, there is a suspicion of irregularity. Which means the money's gone, but no charges have been filed. No two Fidesz. This is also worth emphasising because there is a György Simonka in your ranks, whose family is slowly being accused of fiscal fraud in a criminal organisation by the D.A.'s office. According to press reports, the Fidesz MP has already prosecuted his wife and niece, and it is even known that Simonka's mother is in the public prosecutor's eye. According to the charge, György Simonka and his associates committed HUF 1.4 billion of fiscal fraud and other crimes. Your representative can wait eight-and-a-half years of detention and total confiscation. No two Fidesz. And now here is the case of István Happy, whose right-handed White Petra has been placed in custody with several of you. They're investigating a criminal case on the ground for the adoption of court bribery and other crimes. My question is that you sat down with Happy István, if not Cherken in the thermals in a bathing suit, but under any circumstances, and asked him how he felt about these accusations. Our constituency asks you as one person: what will be the fate of István Happy? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-12-10-149	Thank you, Congressman Tamás Csányi. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. [[15.10]]
u2019-12-10-150	Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for asking. I repeat my constitutional position, as previously stated. The Attorney General can be asked, in criminal matters the government does not act. The government has no jurisdiction in criminal matters. The law enforcement agencies are doing their job, as I understand it, the cases you've listed show that these organizations are working. Once the cases are closed, we'll know what's real. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-10-151	Thank you, Prime Minister. Congressman Tamás Csányi has the rejoinder.
u2019-12-10-152	Thank you very much for your answer, Prime Minister. I didn't ask how these organizations do their job. Of course they'll end up, thank God they'll end up. But both István Happy and Petra Fehér are connected to you and Fidesz. Fehér Petra was Vice-President of the Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County General Assembly, and was now arrested in advance as a member of the Turkish Szentmiklós Panel and the Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County General Assembly. Local Fidesz doesn't say anything about the case, they don't say anything. They are obviously looking forward to your high-profile decision on what the poor can say. Help them! Many wonder whether István Happy and his associates' money pumping technique is a unique case or perhaps a typical one. Is that how you operate? Is there going to be an indictment against the congressman? Do you want an account, or is money and two-thirds more important to you than anything else? You like to show yourselves as if you're a professional organization of everything. Maybe their favorite movie could be Godfather Trilogy. Let's face it, in terms of their methods, we often find parallels. At the same time, allow us, Prime Minister, to think of another trilogy, and this is the Naked Gun. [[Defiance.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-10-153	Thank you, Congressman Tamás Csányi. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán also has a rejoinder.
u2019-12-10-154	Honourable Congressman, There are visible consequences for Jobbik's association with the former state party, and the thoughts of the state party, I see, have gotten under your hair. I would like to inform you that there is a civil democracy in Hungary [[It's a lot of noise.]] So the government doesn't investigate, the government doesn't prosecute. It's perfectly regulated in the Constitution. As far as the question is concerned, however, because it is of a political nature that there are also fideses among those involved, the answer is yes. As part of the ongoing cases are affected by better Members and better politicians. Only I don't ask questions disguised as long lists. On the other hand, since there are moral and corruption issues here, I would like to remind you that Jobbik is the only party that has been clearly and admitted to being bought, hairy and skinny, by kilos, under the influence of businessmen, that their party president had to flee even public life. Congratulations on that, gentlemen. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-10-155	Thank you, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, László Szászfalvi, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Prime Minister, an immediate question: what measures does the government use to support Hungarians across the border? It's an address. The Minister is present, he will give the answer. Mr László Szászfalvi has the floor.
u2019-12-10-156	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Ferenc Gyurcsány and the left-wing opposition made 5 December 2004 a day of shame for national treason, as the referendum on the extension of Hungarian citizenship was held in Hungary. Since then, we cannot forget the treason of the left at that time. Politicians digging against Hungarians across the border now claim to be democrats and benevolent, while the former Prime Minister and members of his faction are spectacularly boycotting, for example, the Hungarian Permanent Conference, and did not vote for the parliamentary resolution declaring the year 2020 as the year of national cohesion. With the first measures of the Orbán government, the Hungarian community was reunited in public law and the simplified naturalization procedure was introduced.Today, Hungary's Fundamental Law is also part of the responsibility for our Hungarian brothers living in torn areas. Dear Minister, In addition to the introduction of dual citizenship, the government supports Hungarians across the border in a number of other forms, and seeks to strengthen relations between parts of the nation. The government ensures the sustainable functioning of more than fifty Hungarian secondary schools, colleges and sporadic colleges, providing continuous support for eight Hungarian-speaking higher education institutions and faculty abroad. Within the framework of the Unlimited! programme, nearly 101,000 schoolchildren will be able to get to know the Carpathian Basin and build relationships with their fellow nations in the 2019-2020 academic year. On this basis, I respectfully ask Minister how he appreciates the government's involvement so far in the interests of Hungarians across the border and what further measures are planned in the near future. I look forward to your reply, Minister. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-10-157	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás.
u2019-12-10-158	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, what happened on 5 December 2004 is well known for the position which was expressed at that time. And although there have been surprising turns in Hungarian politics since then, but the opinion of the governing parties has not changed, we supported dual citizenship, and when, after 2010, we had the opportunity to amend the citizenship law with a two-thirds majority, and to give Hungarians across the border the possibility of dual citizenship, this was done by the Hungarian Parliament as one of the first decisions before the government was established. I can tell you that the government has been active in national politics ever since. I would just like to mention one commentary that we contribute to the organisation of programmes of 5,000 Hungarian institutions abroad every year. In 2019 we supported more than 3150 Hungarian organizations from 1.3 billion forints from abroad in the framework of the application for Hungarian culture and Hungarian education and our tender for the Youth Scout Community. Government policy and support policy on Hungarian cross-border parts are therefore also active. It is sad to see that there are parties outside the Parliament and the Parliament that do not understand the significance of these parties. Nothing has changed in the Parliament, the Democratic Coalition is still here today, and it denies all these achievements and considers them harmful. But we also see that today Jobbik is no longer ashamed to make a list with parties like Momentum, a common list has been set up in several counties, which believe that the interests of Hungarians across the border are better represented by Romanians in Transylvania and that Slovaks are better represented in the Felvidék than the Hungarians who live there. It's the shame of people who think like that and make an alliance with them. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-10-159	Thank you, Minister. Congressman Szászfalvi has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2019-12-10-160	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reassuring reply. I think that these results, mentioned by the Minister and mentioned some of them, mean more than just a paradigm shift in national policy. We can safely say that, or we can say that it is a historical event, a process. After all, both the identity preservation programmes and the naturalisation process and the economic development programmes in recent years, I think they all mean that we are now trying not only to help, support, operate and maintain cultural, community values and interests, but also to help, by means of specific economic development programmes, the existential possibilities of Hungarian people, families, communities across the border, to help and to ensure that they remain in the homeland. Today we spend more than ten times as much resources to support Hungarians and national communities across the border, and I think this is a very good and important process, so it should go on. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-10-161	Thank you, Congressman Szászfalvi. The Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office also has the opportunity to rejoinder.
u2019-12-10-162	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would also like to stress that it would be fortunate for us to agree in the Hungarian Parliament, in Hungarian political life and among Hungarian political parties, as a kind of national minimum, that our joint task is to support cross-border parts of the nation, regardless of the otherwise governmental cycles and the composition of the government. [[15.20]] The fact that the dual citizenship institution has worked is also a good proof that more than one million people, almost 1 million, have used this option. Let us not forget that, although for the majority, since we talk more about EU Member States in those countries where there are large numbers of Hungarians, this is primarily a public-law bond with the Hungarian State after a hundred years, but there are also parts of the nation where this also provides for the possibility of membership of the European Union, so the acquisition of citizenship also makes Hungarians who live in Transcarpathia, for example. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] So I think it's our job to continue that national policy together, in agreement...
u2019-12-10-163	Thank you.
u2019-12-10-164	... which, by the way, is in the interest of 13-14 million Hungarians. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-10-165	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Mr. Lajos Korózs, representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, wishes to ask Mr.Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, an immediate question: what is happening in the Mátra Power Plant? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman Lajos Korózs.
u2019-12-10-166	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, Mr. Secretary. At the end of the week, a committee meeting would have been held in Eger, and the Committee on Sustainable Development would have liked to hear the heads of the administrative authority who have competence in relation to the situation at the Visonta power plant, other organisations from disaster management through waste management, and unfortunately, the Fidesz representatives have resigned from attending the committee meeting one after the other, so this committee meeting has failed. At the same time, I must tell you, Minister, that I have received a copy of what is known as speed information, a copy of which is in my hand. [[He's showing it to me.]] This shows that pollution is present in the power plant, that the source of pollution is technological water from the Ozse Valley reservoir, and that the gases released from it, sulphur hydrogen, nitric oxide and phosphorus hydrogen have exceeded the health limit. I have submitted some written questions, but since this committee meeting has been cancelled, allow me, Minister, to ask you a few questions here as well. Everyone here is of the opinion that the problems are not with the power plant, but in the industrial park in the field of the power plant, at Viresol company owned by Lőrinc Mészáros. I'd like to ask you if Viresol treats waste in accordance with the law. I'd like to ask you to move the waste from Viresol to Geosol, which I also know is in the possession of Lőrinc Mészáros and Viresol to the power plant. In addition, I would like to ask you how materials similar to sewage sludge from Mátraalja were transported to the sites of the Metropolitan Channel Works and the Metropolitan Channel Works had access to these pollutants. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2019-12-10-167	Thank you, Congressman Lajos Korózs. In response, I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office.
u2019-12-10-168	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I also thank you for your interest, especially the new aspects that you have raised in relation to the questions that have been on the table for weeks and have the same content. I can repeat that on 12 November 2019 the Heves County Disaster Management Directorate informed the Egri District Office of the Heves County Government Office that they had received a public announcement that there had been water pollution, resulting diseases in the Mátra Power Plant. According to the Board of Directors, the emergency mobile laboratory measured concentrations above limit values for several pollutants in the air. Following this, the environmental authority also carried out an immediate check. Since 12 November 2019, for more than two weeks, until the evening of 27 November, the emergency mobile laboratory has carried out continuous measurements, each value being below the limit. The values below the limit have shown that there is no harmful contamination harmful to human health. As far as the issue of sewage sludge is concerned, I can only say that although the EU legislation on sewage sludge makes it difficult to do so, the government office has issued a one-year license for this type of activity before, and since May last year no authorisation has been issued by a government agency. So the last license has to expire in May. Given that the compatibility of this regulatory practice and regulation with EU principles is extremely difficult, we are counting on everyone to help Hungary maintain the exceptional situation in this regard so that there is no need to absorb, store or dispose of sewage sludge under any circumstances. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] That's what we're doing. No complaints have been received from the authorities in this area. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-10-169	Thank you, Minister. You have a one-minute rejoinder for Congressman Lajos Korózs.
u2019-12-10-170	Thank you, Minister. Actually, you didn't answer those questions, but I'll also ask you in writing to give you time to think about it, or to give you the answer, the material similar to the sewage sludge from Viresol has been transferred from Geosol to the plant, Geosol and the plant to the waste water treatment plant in northern Pest. In addition, did they have the right to accept this material? In addition, I ask you to be able to demonstrate with balance sheets the classification of the substances that have been accepted from these sites, in what quantities and who carried out the transport. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-12-10-171	Thank you, Congressman Lajos Korózs. You have a one-minute rejoinder for Secretary Gergely Gulyás.
u2019-12-10-172	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Congressman, What I can tell you is that it may indeed be beyond expectations that I am here to carry out official inspections at your request, but if such a request is made in connection with the results of the official investigations so far, we will disclose the data. If a request for further investigation is received, the authorities have always done so. What I can only tell you is that the environmental authority is not in the process at the moment, and the public has not been notified there. The police have been reported in connection with environmental damage; at the request of the Heves County Police Department, the investigation will be conducted by the Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County Police Department. In the case at hand, I believe that the authorities have done their best to restore public rest and have demonstrated for two weeks by continuous, constant measurements and mobile laboratory that there is no contamination or contamination exceeding any limit. That's why I'm asking everyone for abstinence and restraint. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] that statements are not made which are capable of disturbing the rest of the residents of the place, according to the data of the official procedures, there is no reason to do so. [[The president's ringing again.]] If you have questions, I will answer them in writing. Thank you very much for your patience. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-10-173	Thank you very much, Minister Gergely Gulyás. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask Minister Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, an immediate question. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-12-10-174	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, I see you're trying to make that picture look like it's just a one-time problem with the Visonta power plant, and it's just a one-time pollution, but that's not the case. In August of this year, I learned that the Bene and Tarna Creeks were so black, so I asked the Minister of Interior, who said in his reply that Bene and Tarna Creek were the Viresol Kft of Visontai. It was covered with pollution from its reservoir. Since then, these streams and the environment have been regularly affected by serious industrial pollution. Technically, from these streams, the wildlife has disappeared completely. And now you're telling me that there's been regular measurements of disaster control and that there's no contamination. [[15.30]] On November 20, Greenpeace measured in several places, and found in several places that, beyond the limit allowed, pollution, virtually sewage flows into these streams and places. When any suspicions arose about Lajos Bige's factory, they acted with great rigour, suspended the factory immediately, invaded the factory and investigated it. My question is why Viresol Kft does not act with the same severity. It is clearly owned by Lőrinc Mészáros, when they will act equally hard and carry out the same tests against a factory that regularly pollutes the environment. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2019-12-10-175	Thank you, Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio. In response, I give the floor to Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office.
u2019-12-10-176	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Here's what I can actually record. So far, the following authorities have conducted an investigation. These are not party organisations or institutions acting on a political basis, but authorities: disaster management board, environmental authority. The emergency mobile lab ran continuous measurements for more than two weeks. The reason why a mobile lab is because on the spot, specialists in disaster management continuously took samples and measured them several times a day. In view of these, we can say that, on the basis of any measurement, following the one-off event on 12 November, no acts have taken place which would give rise to the assumptions you make here as a fact. We can tell you there's no retail complaint with the environmental authority. I have just mentioned to our fellow Member the question that there has been a report, which is being carried out by the Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County Police Department, but this, to my knowledge, has also come in connection with the event of 12 November, where there has indeed been a border crossing. Since then, different forms of criticism have been repeated over and over again. Because of the ownership of the company that operates there, they are made in the form of political accusations. But then, Congressman, my request is that you leave, preferably with instruments, or participate in the defense or investigation activities of the authorities, see if you can get the water from there, wait for the results, see if you can believe it. There is no influence on politics, the government, or even the government's administration on the work of the authorities that have been there for two weeks. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] sampling and measurements have been carried out several times per day. Obviously, from a public health point of view, such matters should be treated as strictly as possible. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] But that's no reason to cause alarm for no reason when the data show no contamination in a month. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-12-10-177	Thank you, Minister. You have a one-minute rejoinder for Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio.
u2019-12-10-178	Thank you for the floor. Thank you, Minister, for the proposal, we may accept and leave, although Greenpeace has already been there and has taken samples of several places. He examined these samples in an accredited lab, so they didn't hit their stomachs, and they didn't do it by some party organization. Well, they've got some pretty serious routines in these tests here. Here's the problem. There is a government-owned company with which, in practice, we see it being handled with gloves, while if there is a company with other ownership that is in the way, it is being investigated by all the authorities of the entire state. We do not want this double standard. There should be very strict action against such companies. Unfortunately, I understand there was a tragic accident at the power plant last week. We should at least initiate a serious occupational safety investigation against the company, but that hasn't happened yet. We see that there is a double standard in this case, and we see that the government is not looking at the same efficiency, the authorities are not looking at the same efficiency. It would be nice to change that. Thank you. [[Bence of Turdai applauds.]]
u2019-12-10-179	Thank you very much, Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio. A one-minute rejoinder is also available to Minister Gergely Gulyás.
u2019-12-10-180	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, Basically, the condition of meaningful discourse is that we respond to data, facts, or if there is a difference of opinion between us, we will reach where we will no longer agree. In this particular case, there are test data. No one questioned this data. They reflect the results of peer reviews carried out by the Authority and demonstrate that no limit values have been exceeded since 12 November. After it is easy to answer the opposition today, if the representative of the party did not ask, Jobbik's representatives asked the same question last week, I was even given half a liter of water. I also sent half a liter of water to be nice to the authorities to examine. There is a long list of what kind of espionage is in the water. [[Zoltán Balczó: Where is the OSH?]] However, the essential conclusion is that half a litre of water passed on to me was that no micro-contaminant hazardous to the environment was detected during the tests carried out. [[Interview from Jobbik: Why doesn't the Borsod County Government Office publish it? Dr. Bence Rétvári: Push the button! The president's ringing the bell.]] So even for the water you've given me, I can tell you that I have countless detailed analyses of it. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] But the conclusion is this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-12-10-181	Thank you, Minister Gergely Gulyás. Dear Parliament, Mária Kállai, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "The Gothar case and what is behind it What guarantees can help avoid abuse? It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister for the answer in person. [[Dr. Mary Kállai: Yes, thank you, Mr President, I accept.]] Thank you very much. Congresswoman Maria Kállai has the floor.
u2019-12-10-182	Thank you very much. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, We have already talked about it in this House today, as we know, director Péter Gothár, who was previously involved in a political, sexual harassment case in the colours of the SZDSZ, and he himself admitted it. According to the news of the past period, many kinds of news have come to light, and it has also been revealed that the head of the Balliberal Theatre of Katona József Theatre, Gábor Máté, has not just learned this, and has been aware of this for a year now, and has done everything in his power to cover this matter up as quietly as possible. However, the cynicism with which the Katona József Theatre and the capital's Balliberal leadership dealt with the scandal caused by the Gothar case, in short: by choosing the instrument of silence, they tried to silence the sexual harassment case and reduce the role of the Soldier in all of this. The Balliberian elite didn't want this to go public. The Gyurcsány pro-Gyurcsány Gy. Erzsébet Németh, an influential politician of DK, who is currently Deputy Mayor of Culture, stated that the case is closed on his part, as the theatre has not filed a criminal complaint. Let us not forget that the University of Theatre and Film has done everything in its power to save the exposed stalker, Péter Gothár. At first, he tried a false examination, and then when Peter Fekete sent a definite letter, he couldn't do it after that, despite the fact that they kept stalling with various tricks. As known, the József Theatre of Katona and the University of Theatre and Film Arts are essentially controlled by the same [[Peter Ungár: Who?]] Gábor Máté, Tamás Ascher, Péter Gothár. [[Peter Ungár intervenes.]] Since Gábor Máté is leader in both places, it can also be said that he knew about Gothar's sexual harassment a year ago, but he did nothing. In the wake of the scandal, the university, under pressure from the public, ended the relationship of Péter Gothár on 9 December 2019, at a time when László Marton, who was considered right-wing by the Balliberal side, literally died in a similar scandal. It is not only the fact of sexual harassment that is outrageous, deeply reprehensible, unacceptable, but also the fact that the management of a theater tries to hide it, conceals it rather than dismissing the perpetrator with immediate effect. [[Peter Ungár intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] In Hungary, in every creative community, we have a harmonious environment and we have a duty to complete the art, not to worry about the children who choose this career. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Secretary of State, In view of the above, I ask what guarantees can help to avoid abuses in the future, since it is clear that Budapest...
u2019-12-10-183	Congresswoman! Congresswoman!
u2019-12-10-184	I'm sorry, my question is...
u2019-12-10-185	Yeah, he wrote the question down. Thank you.
u2019-12-10-186	... what guarantees can help in the future. But I think I've managed to tell you. Excuse me. Thank you.
u2019-12-10-187	Thank you very much, but you've had two minutes, and I apologize to the Parliament for noticing this myself, and I didn't report it in time. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. [[15.40]]
u2019-12-10-188	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I think we can't go without saying something today, and I'm glad that Congressman Csárdi is here. [[Péter Ungár: What?]] I mean, he was talking about this case here in Parliament today, but he didn't condemn what happened at the theater in one word. Not a word, Your Honour. [[Peter Ungár intervenes.]] He was accusing everyone here in Parliament, citing more than one person, forgetting to say the one sentence that his fellow Member also absolutely condemns and expects both the perpetrator and the theatre and the University of Theatre and Film to assume responsibility. [[Peter Ungár constantly intervenes.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In recent days, there has been a very strange phenomenon in this case. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] and regarding the amendment of the law on the financing of theatres and cultural life that will soon be on the agenda, that some actors, who are very active on the Balliberal side as actors, take account of those who do not go out on the streets, who do not join these series of demonstrations, why they do not. They are pressured and expected; the threat of disfellowshipping must now be faced by actors, theatre directors, theatre communities who are unwilling to stand as Balliberian political activists in this matter. And they're doing all this because they say that the reason why there were so few people at the protest last night [[Péter Ungár: There were not few!]] because X, Y. and Z. named specific theatres, specifically, even referring to the actors of the nation [[Intervention from the benches of the governing parties: That's right!]] even to others that they should have been there and expected to be there, they would put political pressure on them so that the actor would not be concerned with his acting, but would become a politician. [[Péter Ungár: There is a law... The field of politics is the law...]] This is unacceptable, I believe, and it is not possible to put anyone under any political pressure and pressure on the Balliberal side, either on the media or on the part of certain cultural leaders or actors, to definitely join a political movement. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell. Péter Ungár: The suppression of Fidesz!]] But we can all expect that in this case, [[The president's ringing again several times.]] As a leader, whether you, as a politician, honourable Member, first condemn both the perpetrator and the cover-ups. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-10-189	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. One minute, 60 seconds [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]] you have the opportunity to rejoin the congresswoman. Here.
u2019-12-10-190	I'm trying to give it back a little bit of time. One thought, thanks to Mr. Secretary of State's reply, I intend to consider it, because it is an amazing story that theatres demand money without giving them access to the cases, even covering up for years. [[Peter Ungár will spread his hands.]] In all cases, it is not only a matter of maintenance and management responsibility. [[Péter Ungár: Has this come to your mind as a matter of urgency? Now, in three days? Dr. László Cook intervenes.]] to complete professional and budgetary tasks, but to prevent moral, moral and negative stories, I think it is all together the maintenance and management responsibilities. Thank you, I was able to return 30 seconds. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Peter Ungár intervenes.]]
u2019-12-10-191	Thank you very much. You have a chance to rejoin the Secretary of State.
u2019-12-10-192	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, In the case of Péter Gothar, in the case of Henrik Havas, we could see the same thing: if it is a person who is close to the Balliberal political camp, then no one will comment, no one will judge, no one will petition, no one will demand resignation, no one will question the responsibility of the leaders who may have known about it and who have kept it quiet, tendentiously, we can always see it. [[Miklós Soltész: That's right!]] The balliberal side is only loud when it has to be talked about in general, and when it is not about actors directly related to the Balliberal side, directly related to political, value world and activism. [[Peter Ungár constantly intervenes.]] In English, he doesn't care about the victims, he doesn't do it for the protection of women, he uses it as a political weapon. When it is politically good for them, this question is raised. When politically sensitive, such as now on the issue of Gábor Máté, Péter Gothár, University of Acting Arts, they try to hide the matter, try to keep it quiet. That's how you see it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that they never act for the victims, and never for the vulnerable women, but only for the political calculation. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Interjection from the same place: That's right!]]
u2019-12-10-193	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the immediate questions. He's reporting in order of business, presumably for personal involvement, Congressman Csárdi, LMP. You have two minutes.
u2019-12-10-194	Thank you very much. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Let's hear it. What does he say about Gábor Matthew?]] So let me start by saying that not only today, but yesterday, now and everywhere, I condemn you when you abuse women. Gábor Máté I also condemn you, just like your own theater condemned you, by the way. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: What do you say about Gábor Máté?]] He was fired and even banned from the institution's territory. [[Intercoms.]] And I think, Mr. Secretary, that they have a big mouth right now, but... [[Intervention from the benches of the governing parties: Style!]] When the congressman's wife fell through a blind comondo on one of their fellow Members' dogs, they were so quiet. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Gábor Máté? Director in charge...]] It's a shame and a shame! [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: It has consequences!]] But for my part, I am satisfied that they have finally noticed that women around us should be valued and protected. [[Miklós Soltész: Is this order of business?]] Another very interesting thing, of course, is that the Dunai Mónika raises his voice on this issue, among other things, who made the only sexist comment in this House during this cycle. Congratulations. Congratulations to the Fidesz-KDNP faction! [[Dr. Pál Völner: Is this order of business? Bence Rétvári: Gábor Máté is not banned from the theatre...]] And I have to add one more thing: why don't you talk about the New Theatre, fellow Members? I think that harassment of women and abuse of women are not a party policy issue. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] And it is worth talking about two sentences, my dear House, that you are trying to pull this whole thing on him. [[Dr. Pál Völner: This is not order of business!]] to the entire theatrical world, in violation of artists, in violation of directors and anyone who works in this environment. Shame on you! [[Interview from the benches of the governing parties: Cancel! Dr. Bence Rétvári: You got the names mixed up! Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2019-12-10-195	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We will move on to the next item on the agenda, with questions. I give the floor to Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, who wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: Why does the Fidesz government force competitors and sports associations to break the law? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-12-10-196	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Do you remember the Olympic finals with the Serbs? Yes, it was a long time ago, it was in 2004, and precisely this year, in 2004, Parliament authorised the government to create a sports information system. Imagine that for 15 years there has been an IT team working day and night to develop an electronic database for more than HUF 1000 million. Former Secretary of State for Sport Tünde Szabó promised to sharpen the system by 2018. 2018 has passed, 2019 is slowly over, but the system is still not working. This is also very embarrassing because, according to the Sports Act, a sports organisation that does not comply with its obligation to provide data to the Sport Information System cannot receive state aid. Here's the thing. Competitors should also have a certificate registered in the sports information system as a condition for participating in the tournament. The question therefore arises as to why the Fidesz government does not create the technical conditions for this. With your failure, why do you force contestants and sports organisations to break the law? I would also like to ask the Secretary of State with respect: how much money has been spent so far to improve the system without success, and who are the companies involved in this? And please tell me honestly when the sports information system is actually going to start working, because after 15 years, we think it's time. What do you think? We're waiting for an answer.
u2019-12-10-197	Thank you, Congressman Steinmetz. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2019-12-10-198	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, To Mr Csárdi only that he clearly did not know who he was talking about in his speech. But back to the Sports Information System, I would like to inform the Member that the Sports Information System is currently a database available. The sport information system for the electronic registration of competitive licences remains available to sports associations and is therefore available to them. So the government doesn't force anyone to break the law against your claim, of course. The government appointed NISZ, the National Infocommunications Service Provider Zrt. as the developer of the development, which provided for the development task by means of a public procurement procedure. The legal basis for this is 1814/2016. Government resolution No.1, titled: Government decision on the provision of resources for individual sports grants, where it provided exactly one billion HUF for this purpose. All public procurement can be followed on kozbeszerzes.hu. Who and what tasks will be stored by the system in the light of data protection requirements are included in the Sports Act X/B. It is clearly provided for in Chapter II of this Regulation. [[15.50]] If the other parts of this chapter are being studied by the Member, you can see the authorizations exactly, and, as I referred to, data services in the current system can be carried out by associations and sports associations, so no one is obliged to do anything illegal. At the same time, a fully modern, modern, up-to-date IT system is being created, from which we can manage the design, development and results of various sports in an up-to-date and electronically available way, and therefore we can plan later developments after such a well-prepared database. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-10-199	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Sándor Szabó, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister:. Do you support the construction of the South Tisza Bridge in Szeged in mixed traffic by 2022? It's an address. At the request of the Minister for Innovation and Technology, László Palkovics, who is responsible for the subject, will answer the question on behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr János Schanda. You have the opportunity to ask, Congressman Szabó.
u2019-12-10-200	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The city of Szeged is the economic engine of the southern lowland region, a scientific and cultural centre as well, lives here, learns, lives most people in the county. The economic success of Szeged brings with it the success of the county and the region, and the geographical significance of the city is also given by the fact that, as a border city, the city has a major role to play in international relations with our southern neighbours and in strengthening and developing new relations. For this reason, I submitted a parliamentary resolution proposal a few weeks ago in order to ensure that Members of Parliament, all of the Members of Parliament, support the Government's decision to make sure that the third bridge in Szeged in the south will be built. I have contacted the Prime Minister and the relevant representative of the county in a separate letter to ask for their special support on this issue. Not only because this investment has long been a desire and a legitimate need for the people living here, but also because if this third bridge was finally built, it would, of course, not only facilitate the economic development of the city, but also the county and the region. Besides, the construction of the southern bridge has been promised by the Prime Minister for twenty years, even in the campaign of 98, since then it has promised a great deal of time, since then there have been two government decisions on the implementation of this investment, and a cooperation agreement has been signed with the Mayor of Szeged within the framework of the programme of the modern cities. I think that there is a consensus between the city and the government that the establishment of this bridge is justified and necessary and that I want to achieve cross-party cooperation in this matter. So I respectfully ask you to support my proposal for a resolution, that is, to build the mixed-traffic southern Tisza Bridge by 2022, as set out in the Government Decision. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2019-12-10-201	Thank you, Congressman Szabo. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2019-12-10-202	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You ask us to support the construction of the southern Tisza Bridge in Szeged, but I think you have answered your question in your speech, because you have just said that the construction of the bridge is included in the programme of the modern cities and that a government decision has been reached. I'm just asking you carefully, what do you think that means, I think that means we support this bridge being built. He also said that this investment must be a matter beyond the parties, but what we see now is that you and your party are the ones who are trying to take political advantage of it, from a development which, in fact, and I sincerely believe, is equally important to the government and equally important to the people of Szeged, the Hungarians of Szeged. Honourable Congressman, Not only in the country, but also in the Csongrád county, you can see that the government is committed to developing cities, which is why we have launched the "Modern Cities" programme, which is Hungary's largest urban development programme. In 2019 cities with county rights receive more than a thousand billion HUF of development aid. However, you must also acknowledge and please do this, that building a bridge is a complex task with responsibility, which requires careful professional preparation. The estimated cost of the project is HUF 45 billion, including the necessary road connections and driveways for the bridge, the single-track railway transfer from Szőreg station to Szeged main station, the connection of the Szeged 1 tram to the railway line and the related bus station [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the construction of the intermodal node. It is also clear from this, honourable Member, that the Government is committed and keeps its promises, and that the implementation of the bridge project is progressing well. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-10-203	Thank you, Secretary Schanda. Dear Parliament, The next questioner would be László Varju, a representative of DK, but he is not present. Under the provisions of the house rules, since the Member is not present, the question must be considered withdrawn. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister a question:. How long does the government intend to keep the political elite in a privileged position? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, at the request of Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of Interior, who is competent and competent on the subject, the question will be answered by Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. You have the floor, Congressman Csárdi.
u2019-12-10-204	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Following the municipal elections, the news of the shocking amounts paid for years of unused freedom redemptions on paper caused public outrage. The fact that they sometimes exceeded the annual salary of a fellow countryman with an average salary, which means that, for example, András T. Mészáros, if the average wage of 349 800 HUF is taken into account, he received a 20-month average salary as a redemption. But the line continues, without the need for completeness, Sára Botond, Budapest VIII. Mayor of the district with HUF 3 805 407, János Bácskai, Budapest IX. The former mayor of his district became richer by more than HUF 3 million, and the list could continue for a long time. This is amazing in the light of the fact that last year the Fidesz-KDNP Association adopted the 2018 Act on Government Administration CXXV, which included strict rules on the freedom of public service officials, including on the redemption of freedom. The law provides that, after the deadline laid down in the law, freedom cannot be granted or used. In other words, if the official did not receive his leave for the previous year by 30 June of the following year at the latest, his claim to issue it will be lost. According to the law, freedom cannot accumulate, so it cannot receive it either in money or in time or in any way this lost freedom. On the other hand, the picture appears to be drawn, and on the basis of your approach, it is acceptable in the administration that there are prominent or secondary persons. It can also be seen that, although the government has noticed the concerns about freedom redemption, it intends to retain itself, the political elite, in its privileged position. I ask you, therefore, Mr Secretary of State, that it is fair for you to maintain this situation. Why does the government think [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That mayors should be treated with disproportionate discounts, and how long do you intend to maintain this rightfully outrageous practice for taxpayers? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2019-12-10-205	Thank you very much. I would like to remind Mr Csárdi, Congressman, that the House rules do not apply only to government representatives in respect of respect for the time frame. [[Antal Csárdi: They don't follow!]] I give you the floor, the opportunity to respond to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2019-12-10-206	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It would have been really appropriate if the Member had already started speaking on such a person, if he had mentioned a similar case from another point of view, let us say, among your coalition partners. Let's say, in 2014, when Péter Gajda and his sub-Mayors, who remained in their seats after 469 days, took up a release, it would be worth taking this into account. [[16.00]] It would also be worth taking into account the decision to require government interference in the activities of the municipalities or to allow the municipalities to operate under the municipal law. The mayor is not a civil servant, Congressman. Certain rules of the Civil Service Act apply to mayors, but mayors are not civil servants, they work with a special status, and the rules of special status are largely determined by their employer, the body of representatives. You are well aware that there is still a body of representatives who, for example, are not even willing to vote for the salary of the elected mayor. So it's worth sweeping around their own house. And I reject the fact that the government would regulate in any first or second order with civil servants, in particular in the light of the fact, honourable Member, that, in the area where the government has the right to regulate and, in the case of state leaders, the government has the opportunity to regulate the maximum freedom of state leaders for 20 days. So do not confuse the way municipalities manage their own budgets in their own territory. What the state is doing, the government has put order in its own territory and in the area of officials, and in the case of state leaders, it has limited annual leave for twenty days, and there is no transferable freedom for state ministers and ministers. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-10-207	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance:. What will happen to patients who are excluded from free healthcare? It's an address. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor.
u2019-12-10-208	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. Your boss notes as rapporteur the proposal on the transformation of social security benefits. Until then, we understand that they want to act against abuses and to strengthen the willingness to pay contributions. However, under the new legislation, many people are excluded from free healthcare. In the government, they may think that the chips are falling, but in this case the chips can cause loss of human life or permanent damage to health, so the smallest chips are not acceptable. There are nearly 110 thousand registered job seekers who are not receiving any cash benefits according to the latest data. They receive care reduced by Fidesz to HUF 22 800, neither active age, nor free healthcare. Some of them are paying a service contribution today, some of them apply for social security, and some of them are not legally dependent because in their family the per capita income exceeds HUF 34 200. According to the government, it is possible to make a living on 35,000 forints a month, and from this it also has to earn the health service contribution to 7710 forints. And anyone who meets the very strict legal requirements and is socially dependent must issue a certificate of necessity at the district office every year. A significant part of them have no idea about this obligation, which is why the system so far was good: they were told at the hospital that their social security status was not in order, but they were treated. After they were cured, they could settle their relationship. This is the end of the new regulation: they have to pay for health care, which will obviously be impossible for them. This would leave the poorest without health care. It's an inhumane measure, even Fidesz would be unusually inhumane. And those who work will also be without care, but their employer will not announce them. These crooked workers are being punished by the government in health care. Mr. Secretary, is that really what you want? Or what does the government plan to avoid crowds of Hungarians from free healthcare?
u2019-12-10-209	Thank you very much, Congressman Tordai. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2019-12-10-210	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The new TB. We also stressed in Parliament's preparation of the Act that the aim is not to force anyone out of any kind of care, and that such a law was passed before the Parliament. The purpose of the new law is not to exclude anyone from health care, especially those who are in difficulty. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that emergency care continues to belong to everyone, and there has been no change in that. So I'll let you know it's the TB. Tbj is a member of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of 6. (paragraph 1 (c) of this Article). That is, they are entitled to all social security, including health care. If someone does community service, the same goes for him. However, if a person does not receive such benefits and does not work in any legal relationship, but has a minimum income for whom he listed, who were all such, they are considered socially dependent under the Social Security and Social Administration Act, and on this basis they can obtain entitlement to health care. This status must indeed be demonstrated, which relates to a change in the person concerned that does not justify his entitlement. It is wrong to state that the person who works is without care. Anyone can be convinced that his employer will settle this obligation, but from next year the tax office will immediately and directly inform the employee if his employer has infringed the employment tax rules. The new law is more favourable to insured people and people. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-10-211	Thank you, Mr András Tállai State Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mihály Balla, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question: - How to proceed after the success of the Hungarian Village Program? It's an address. Mr Mihály Balla has the floor.
u2019-12-10-212	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, At the end of last year, the government announced the Hungarian village programme, which aims to facilitate the development of small settlements, thereby increasing the capacity to sustain the population. The programme, which supports settlements below 5,000 people, has proved to be extremely successful. Nearly 2,900 eligible settlements, 97 percent of the 1100 parishes submitted applications last year, and 85 percent received support. This framework could be used primarily for the village family home-building benefit, for the improvement of the side roads, for specific parish purposes, and for measures aimed at improving the quality of life in the local area. The budget of the programme was around HUF 75 billion, of which more than HUF 50 billion was awarded to the winning small settlements this year. In this way they can spend about HUF 6 billion on municipal investments, HUF 7 billion on the development of religious community spaces, and from HUF 4 billion they can renew in 189 settlements or build a new medical office, and 781 settlements can buy medical supplies from a total of HUF 2 billion. Thanks to the program, kindergartens, crèches, apartments, public offices, roads and community spaces could be renewed in the winning settlements, thus effectively improving the quality of life of the people living there. The programme is an excellent opportunity for the development of villages in Nógrád, among other things. Dear Secretary of State, The enthusiasm surrounding government support contributing to the development of Hungarian villages has clearly shown that it is an important, deficiency initiative. Can we expect the government to continue to provide adequate resources to maintain this programme? Is the government planning to expand the range of available subsidies? Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2019-12-10-213	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Miklós Soltész will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-12-10-214	Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to advance the importance of the government to the settlements in the whole country and to the people who live in any settlement or type of settlement. This is why we have launched the programs of modern cities, and, of course, that is why we have also started the program of the Hungarian village, whose aim, result, has been important and successful, based on the experience of the first year. [[16.10]] After all, if you look at more than 11,000 applications in 2873 and more than 98 percent of them have applied for small settlements, this is a huge number. On the other hand, it is also a big deal that 1227 church applications have joined all of this. It must be said that such a successful application programme has certainly not been for the Hungarian villages in recent decades. And I would add that what you said was 57.5 billion forints, which you have either already been judged, or that you will be given to the municipalities with an obligation. However, it should be stressed that these programmes will continue completely naturally next year and I would like to highlight some of them. At least here, this means that you can get more than HUF 50 billion on the sidelines, at least HUF 60 billion on new village CSOK, at least HUF 40 billion on application support, which will cover three areas, and this is also important in your constituency, that we will support proposals to strengthen service development, infrastructure investments, local identity, so that we will also support projects to strengthen location. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Overall, I can tell you that the budget of the Hungarian village is close to HUF 400 billion in these two years. It's a huge opportunity for you. Thank you so much for your help. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-10-215	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Dóra Dúró, István Apáti and Erik Fülöp, independent representatives, wish to ask the Minister of Justice a question. [[For signal:]] Dear Parliament, One moment, please, Secretary of State Völner, to the Chamber. I'm guessing he left the room, and of course, as long as he's not a member of the government, he's a member of the government... [[Lajos Korózs: Then the next one, Mr. President. Let's jump.]] Dear Congressman, I'm not going to get ahead of anyone, even if we have to wait a minute, that's for sure. Rules are rules, so I'm asking Mr. Secretary of State's co-workers. [[Zoltán Balczó: There are prepared ministers of state here! Not just any secretary of state here.]] With all due respect, as much as we are on the last day of the year, the house rules also oblige the chairman of the meeting. [[Dr. Pál Völner enters the room.]] So, Honourable Parliament, I'm glad you've arrived, Secretary of State. Dóra Dúró, István Apáti and Erik Fülöp, independent representatives, would like to ask the Minister of Justice a question: It's an address. Congressman István Apáti has the floor.
u2019-12-10-216	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, An extremely outrageous incident has come to the attention of our country's movement. The person who confessed to pedophile crimes committed by him was released after 27 months of arrest. About two and a half weeks ago, the Budapest Surrounding Court saw the time come to release an extremely dangerous individual to society, who could hunt his childhood victims again; the victims so far were, without exception, little girls between the ages of 6 and 10. The judge in the case was not dissuaded by the following sentences: I just wanted to say that I did reach into some of the girls' panties and rubbed their skin under it. The pedophile criminal is currently resting under house arrest for the rest of his 27 - month prison life. You may have to wear a tracker, but you've forgotten to upload it several times, giving extra work to the already overloaded police force. In fact, every Thursday, a criminal can take a bus to the market in Nagykata, walk and shop freely, and certainly laugh at the weaknesses of the legal system. The 68 - year - old S. Alexander is the immediate neighbor of one of the girls who was corrupted and abused by him in Tápióság, Jókai Street. Let us also ask whether the populous police kinship could not have anything to do with this strange release, since it is said that the perpetrator or accused person is more specifically a goddaughter and his brother-in-law is a member of the professional staff. The Hungarian Movement therefore organised a demonstration on 30 November and we are initiating a drastic change in the system of legislation and enforcement, which is why we are proposing that the rules relating to the review, order and maintenance of arrest should be reviewed without delay, or, in my view, the scope of basic and qualified cases where a criminal sentenced to a final sentence of imprisonment cannot be granted conditional leave. Would you agree with our suggestions, Mr. Secretary of State? Do you not think, in fact, that the competent and competent bodies should do something very urgently in the specific case? I look forward to your substantive answer.
u2019-12-10-217	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The question is answered by Mr Pál Völner, Deputy Minister.
u2019-12-10-218	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and for your patience. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In accordance with the Basic Law and international conventions, Hungarian criminal law aims to protect society. The two principles of coercive measures that can be applied before the judgment is delivered are necessity and proportionality. This means that there are coercive measures to address the perp's danger and the seriousness of the crime, while guaranteeing the protection of victims. Of these, arrest limits personal freedom to the most severe degree. For this reason, arrest can be ordered if the objective pursued by the coercive measure cannot be achieved by restraining or by criminal supervision. In the case of a restraining order, he shall not contact or stay away from specified places. In the case of criminal supervision, the loaded area, apartment, other premises, institution shall not be left without authorisation, nor shall it be allowed to visit specific public places, public events or public areas. Both restraining and criminal surveillance can be ensured by means of a technical tool or bail following the loaded movement, and both coercive measures can be constantly extended. If the defendant violates the rules of conduct of detention or criminal supervision, including failure to cooperate in the operation of the technical device, his arrest may be ordered. I would stress that the new Btk. It's basically re-regulation of sexual crimes, significantly tightening them up. In particular, in cases of child abuse, strict action is possible and the limitation period does not include the period until the victim is 18 years of age. The perpetrator shall be permanently prohibited from exercising any occupation or any other activity in which he or she pursues the education, supervision, care, treatment of persons under the age of 18 or has other power and influence relations with such persons. You can see that the regulations are strict. It is up to the courts to apply it. Neither the legislator nor the government has any say in how the courts act in individual cases because of the separation of powers. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-10-219	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, In view of the time frame, we now have the last speech by Mr Csaba Gyüre, representative of Jobbik, who wishes to ask the Minister of Finance: "How long will the situation of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County continue to deteriorate during the Regency of the Orbán government? It's an address. Congressman Csaba Gyüre has the floor.
u2019-12-10-220	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Almost all economic indicators show that Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County is the stepchild of the Orbán government. But he's a stepchild that the government doesn't even try to treat in the same way as the rest of the county. It's like we're not even the country's equal unit in North-East Hungary. Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County is the country of the lowest incomes, the smallest pensions, the highest unemployment rate. While over the last decade large companies and large employers have been established in the western and central parts of the country, our county has continued to lag behind. While the national average unemployment rate is around 3.5 percent, in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County it is two and a half times this, 8.7 percent. But this indicator is only so low because many people are forced to work in Western Europe, Western Hungary and Budapest. Almost every second to third family, a male member meets his family and children every two months on weekends, in worse cases every month. [[16.20]] If these people didn't go to Western Europe or to work in other parts of the country, the unemployment rate would be over 30 percent in the county. People who work from the county do not travel thousands or thousands of miles a week for pleasure or adventure, but because of economic pressure, because they could not make a living in other ways. And the situation is getting worse. In 2018, unemployment continued to increase by 0.5 percentage points in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County by 6 percent compared to the previous year. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State how much further the situation of the population of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County will deteriorate during the Regency of the Orbán Government. What does the government intend to do to catch up with Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County? Why not take substantial steps to bring the county's unemployment rates closer to the national average? Is it expected to improve our county's unemployment conditions? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-10-221	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Bodo. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-12-10-222	Thank you very much. Mr President, Congressman! Dear Parliament, Indeed, Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County did not belong to the winners during the period following the change of regime. However, it has to be seen that there have been more positive indicators in recent years, as opposed to what you have informed us about. Allow me to recommend GDP growth to your attention, since it has increased significantly from 46.5 percent since 2010. And it can also be seen that the number of people employed has increased from 172 thousand to 242 thousand. It is quite clear that the number of unemployed has fallen from 43,000 to less than 20,000. So there are positive trends. There is no doubt that there are many other things to do, but you are accusing the government of doing nothing. Well, allow me to inform you about our two most important programs in this relatively short time. One of them is the large enterprise investment aid scheme, which develops the given regions from domestic sources, the respective enterprises. Since 2015, five large companies have received aid in the county and the total investment is close to HUF 7 billion. Out of this, 321 new jobs have been created. The other programme is, and this is, more important to support SMEs. The government is also paying particular attention to this. Between 2011 and 2019, 385 companies received SME job creation support for nearly HUF 7 billion, which contributed to the creation of 3270 new jobs. I can provide you with the following information about the wage level. In the first half of 2019, the average wage increase compared to the previous year is the same as the national average, indicating that Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County will surely catch up at a pace. However, I certainly agree with you that we have a great deal of work to do in this county. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-10-223	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 4:22 p.m., and we're at the end of questioning. We will now continue our work by negotiating proposals for a series of applications for inclusion. Dear Parliament, The Group of the LMP has proposed that the National Assembly decide on the use of CLXVIII 2012 on the tax on public utility lines in order to discharge the public utility tax in the water sector. T/6617. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Economic Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I will give the floor to the author within a five-minute time frame. Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the group, LMP. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2019-12-10-224	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I'm a little sorry that the secretary of state was on the run, and I was hoping that if you were here at this late hour, I might get an answer to my question. We have talked a lot today and we will talk a lot more about the attacks on democracy. However, in this short time, I am not going to do this, but I would like to speak specifically before the Hungarian Parliament on a matter that is not a question of party politics, and in which party politics is not even a place in relation to the problem system. I would like to talk about a very, very serious system problem, a very serious system problem, which requires a solution, and this solution is practically right here in front of this House, and it should be put on the agenda and taken up. What am I talking about? The water utility sector is extremely difficult, in fact, to say that it is in a state of collapse. In 2010, you were given a two-thirds mandate for governance, and since then, the problem has been said to be much more serious. However, it must be acknowledged, and I would like to draw particular attention to this, that this is a long, long, decades-long gap. However, the figures show that since 2010 you have been ruling in Hungary, not only have we taken a little step towards improving the situation, but the situation has become much, much worse, and we are now in the position that the most important public service, the maintenance of water services, is on the brink of collapse. In fact, the number of malfunctions in the water utility system has doubled since 2010. The number of water systems with an appropriate rating has now fallen below 20 per cent on the basis of statistics. 25 percent of the network losses, so 25 percent of the drinking water produced is simply drained because of the poor quality pipe network. You have achieved a very, very serious concentration in the water sector. There were more than three hundred water companies, and over the years they increased the required supply levels, and today there are forty-some service companies; in a large part we are talking about state and municipal companies. At the same time, the economic functioning of these companies is virtually impossible. In addition to the well-known problems, this situation has been compounded by the sectoral special tax you have introduced, the utility tax, which imposes quite unrealistic burdens on service providers and those responsible for care in an unfair system. These companies are characterised by a huge shortage of professionals due to the bad economic situation. This is also a threat to the sector. More and more professionals leave the sector because of poor wages, low wages, lack of appreciation, and in the future it will not be possible to bring these professionals back into the system and train them, and there will be no chance at all to save this existing knowledge, the knowledge in the professional guard. Perhaps the most serious problem can be identified during the maintenance, replacement and maintenance situation. I'll give you two estimates, and this is not the first time I've done it. The Hungarian Vízközmű Szövetség makes the amount that is missing beyond the current resources to enable the most important public service to operate in the 15-year horizon. The County City Association estimates the same amount of $3,000 billion. So you can see that there is a huge shortage, a huge problem. It is typical that the person responsible for the service has to develop a so-called rolling development plan that thinks for 15 years. We are talking about the overall lack of these rolling development plans. So that's how much money the system lacks so that water supply and sewage supply can work. Typically, the solution is always just a communication pull, so that these missing huge amounts can be created from a tender source, but there should be no illusions, there is no such funding anywhere. No government member has given us a concrete answer yet. So the basic task is to carry out a redesign for water utility systems that can stop this disruption and halt the process that could lead to more public companies falling in the short term in the spring of next year. In this context, we have put forward a concrete proposal which is nothing but to subtract the sectoral special tax from the water system. I repeat that this is not a proposal from a opposition party or a proposal from several opposition parties, but this proposal was formulated by the profession itself in addition to several other proposals. So the profession's request, if I count correctly, was submitted to the Parliament for the third time. This is about removing the utility tax from the water sector. This would make it about 30-40 billion dollars easier for water suppliers in the annual perspective, so that much more could be gained, say, to keep professionals, to improve wages and to rebuild them. There is a huge need for this amount, as I have said these huge estimates of a thousand billion. On the other hand, this year and next year, the government is counting on a reconstruction framework of only one and a half billion, which is included in the budget, and knowing the figures, we can safely say that this is really not enough for anything. So the problem is very big, my fellow Members. Please allow this proposal to be included in a series of issues, so that it can be negotiated at all, and then the appropriate amendments, if you feel it is necessary, can be made by you. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-10-225	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent representative to speak in a two-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2019-12-10-226	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, László Keresztes and I submitted this bill together. All I would like to add to his professional speech is that I thought it was primarily because of the interests of the local authorities that this proposal should be put before this House. That is because I spoke to the director, manager and mayors of several municipal-owned waterworks, who came to me in the case, and myself, when I was mayor, I represented the village as a member of a municipal-owned waterworks, so I saw into this strange system, and I think that the municipalities have repeatedly sent cries, since they are trying to maintain the waterworks they operate with capital injections and others. However, the answer is usually when I ask interpellation or question that the municipalities have enough money to solve it, but I do not think that this will lead to good in the long run. [[16.30]] There is a kind of help that can be applied to the municipalities, which we have always done, and as municipalities, there has been less and less money for this purpose. So it's a water support system that's getting less and less for a municipality, and I think that waterworks with their aging machinery parks, low wages they can pay, won't last long. So it is not just the faults and the aged plumbing that occur that are important, but that these waterworks become unsustainable. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-10-227	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Nunkovics of the Jobbik Group.
u2019-12-10-228	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I think that we all agree that the importance and functioning of water utilities is essential for all our Hungarian compatriots, which is why the situation that has emerged today is very problematic, because of the bankruptcy of these utilities and these providers, including the special tax on them. We continue to support this proposal of the LMP, as we also believe that leaving this special tax could be used to start improvements that have been formulated by service providers and professionals. Therefore, we will support this proposal. I was also in my constituency talking to workers who had previously served in the water department and told us the problems that our fellow Member has put before us, namely that fewer and fewer people are working in this area, precisely because of the wages, because they have to take a lot of overtime due to the many failures, which means that they have to work at 0-24 for professionals on the weekend, who are, by the way, less and less, and can only replace these professionals who can only be trained in the crafts in a long time. So it is absolutely important to have a real, noticeable wage increase in this area. And think about what happens when this service starts to get stuck; let alone drinking water, people will not be able to gain access, but they will need everyday activities such as bathing or washing, starting the washing machine. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So they reveal a much more extensive problem, and we will therefore support this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-10-229	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP Group, has applied for a speech.
u2019-12-10-230	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, the Hungarian Socialist Party is also in favour of this initiative, although we can say that we have seen in recent years that our initiatives on the subject-series, we can say that they have been constantly being voted out of the Fidesz-KDNP for years, and that every time we submit a series of initiatives such as, say, the help of water utilities, you are sweeping it off the table. Although we can now see on what important topics we have tabled on the agenda, we have asked for a series of subjects from the opposition side, we know very well that it will be voted down again. Nevertheless, we say that this is one of the most important issues, we can only support the opposition, and we also ask the members of the Fidesz, KDNP, to do so at last. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-12-10-231	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-12-10-232	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I think we can agree that water is a huge asset, and Hungary can count on water power in this area, not only in professionals, but also in the quality of water, with our various underground water resources and water reserves, as well as with technologies and professionals who are famous far away on earth and can often help with water supply in other countries. In his speech, my fellow Member of the Cross listed the various sources of tender that were left out of the fact that, on the one hand, the one-and-a-half-billion-billion tender was doubled, it was announced twice, and the ITM also promised financial assistance to firms in difficulty, as well as the HUF 5 billion bid for energy pumps when it summarized it. I am not saying that this is a lot of money and sufficient money, I am saying that these have happened, or if you start to listen to the municipal announcements, a lot of municipalities are taking advantage of the possibility of continuously issuing public procurement on this subject either from a central budget source in part or only from their own resources. Your narrower Patria, the city of Pécs, issued a four-year utility renewal tender or public procurement of more than HUF 10 billion less than a month or two ago, which means that in the next four years almost the entire city's network will be able to renew from this source of more than HUF 10 billion. This is a very important question. I would like to inform Ildikó Bangóné Borbély here of all his accusations that today there was a vote on the amendment of the opposition constitution, you walked out of this room and did not even vote for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-10-233	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I am asking my fellow Members, who would like to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Do you have the floor to answer to Congressman László Keresztes as rapporteur? [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor.
u2019-12-10-234	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the supporting contributions to my fellow opposition Members, and thank you very much to Mr Nacsa for speaking; this is the third time that we have tried to include this proposal in a series of articles and that is the first time that he has spoken to him as a pro-government Member. At the same time, let me make so many comments that he was talking about a few billion forints, adding a maximum of HUF 5 billion to the HUF 1.5 billion reconstruction fund. I repeat that between HUF 1500 billion and HUF 3000 billion is the amount that is needed in a 15-year perspective, beyond the existing resources, so what is not visible, what is missing. So what I can say is, okay, it's welcome that there are funds, a few billion forints, but we haven't even started to move towards this solution. You mentioned my city, Pécs. I can tell you that the amount missing in the 15-year rolling development plan in Pécs is HUF 19 billion. So there are resources that can be used to plan, including funding, this is great, it is possible to take some steps, but it is missing 19 billion forints, and this should be produced from somewhere to keep the system operational. So the problem is huge. 2018-2022. parliamentary term Budapest, Tuesday, 10 December 2019 102/2. Number Parliamentary Diary The urgency of time for us to start taking action at all on a huge task has already been said that there is a huge exodus of professionals from the sector at present, and this is an irreplaceable loss. If the government is late to make it possible to develop wages, it is feared that experienced professionals will no longer be able to be kept. What we can agree on, however, is that health damage is never acceptable, and unfortunately, there are areas where drinking water is very weak even after a development project. So I think that we can agree on this, that it is completely unacceptable that because of the lack of resources, there will be a tragedy. I believe that this cannot be allowed in relation to the most important public service. Again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this is not a opposition proposal, this is the proposal of the profession that we have just put forward, and we are dealing with a great deal of this important issue for all of us, but I would suggest to my fellow Members that they look at it again on Thursday, the staff of a public water service company will be holding a demonstration here in Budapest to draw the attention of the decision-makers. I'm asking my colleague Nacsa to try to lobby [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to include the proposal in a series of subjects for my fellow members of the Government, and then at least we will be able to discuss during the spring session what steps [[The president's ringing again.]] what has happened so far and what can be done later. Excuse me, Mr. President.
u2019-12-10-235	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Group of the LMP has proposed that the Parliament decide on the amount of the care fee to be added to the current minimum wage, H/6918. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Welfare Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP. Here you go. [[16.40]]
u2019-12-10-236	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, The fact is that it is obvious to everyone that the government has also talked about the fact that as the Hungarian society grows old, more and more elderly people will live their lives and continue to live on, and therefore more and more people will live with age-related diseases that usually require care. In the last four years, you have not added one piece to the number of elderly home seats. So this number is zero. The fact is that those who do not care for their children, so in most cases their elderly relatives living in dementia, receive 38 and 58 thousand forints respectively. The fact is that when you were still in opposition, in 2004, Márta Mátrai put forward a proposal to ensure that everyone who does this job receives the minimum wage as a minimum wage as a home care fee, everyone who does this work will receive the minimum wage in a uniform manner. You have partially achieved this because the children's home care fee will reach the minimum wage by 2022, but those who do not care for their children at home have failed. You voted against your own fellow Member's previous proposal, proving that when you were in opposition, the question was still important to you, now that you are in government and can do so, it is not important to you. 38 and 58 thousand forints, we know it's not enough for anything. It is not enough to make a living, it is not enough to replace the loss of labour market. Ask people who are involved in this, that even better people have problems going to the labour market in such a way that they can trust someone for up to four or eight hours to take care of this personally. Moreover, since you have not raised the wages of social workers, and there are more than 10,000 vacant jobs in the social sector at the moment, dear Congressman Nacsa, at present an auxiliary nurse in a nursing home with 15 years of professional experience and a weekend allowance earns HUF 145 thousand net. That's your salary. You can make any face you want, that's the fact. The thing is, you don't consider caring professions important. The budgetary implications of their own representative's proposal would be up to HUF 50 billion. We know exactly what you're spending in the budget on, which is ten times what you're spending, instead of spending on it, and you haven't been able to explain to this day why your child had to be separated from home caregivers and non-home caregivers. Why does Fidesz treat this care work separately from its own position? That's what you couldn't justify. If you would like to comment on this debate, I would very much like to hear what has changed in Fidesz's position in relation to 2004. Why didn't the elderly raise their home care fees to the minimum wage level? I'll keep going. This proposal is basically good for firefighting. Home care is a good solution for the state, as it is cheaper than putting these people in an institution, but it is not sustainable, and it will cause a serious social problem because you simply do not spend money on the institutional background of elderly care. Again, zero seats have been created in the last four years. Zero seats. Most of the time, they're gone. And the fact that you are transferring this burden to church institutions, where you have 1.8 times the norm you receive, as in state institutions, I don't think it can be explained socially. Overall, I would like to ask that, since this is my proposal, which we would like to see in a series of subjects, word for word, copy-paste, as you copy articles from Breitbart into your media, a copy of a Fidesz 2004 proposal, I would really ask you, if we can no longer put a Fidesz proposal on the agenda as opposition representatives, what constructive politicalization you expect. At least allow us to debate the proposal of Márta Mátrai in plenary and to argue why your position in 2004 was amended and why your position is changing compared to your position in opposition or government. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-10-237	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent representative to speak in a two-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács, Jobbik Group.
u2019-12-10-238	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik supports the application for a series of articles. The arguments that were true before the Fidesz administration before 2010 were clear when you asked for an identical amendment to this resolution proposal or series of articles from the opposition. Since then, life has kept, held and maintained that this question should be resolved. Even because our society is constantly ageing, this is a serious problem not only for the social sphere but also for the health sector. If you like, the decision maker must be more careful and with greater care in order to create positions, a situation where it serves the interests and needs of an ageing society and, in many cases, other sick people or even people with disabilities. This will require an increase in capacity, not only by increasing the fee for home care providers, but also by setting up an appropriate public supply system. The answer to the ageing society could therefore be primarily to include this proposal in the subject series, and that is the money and the assistance, the appreciation that could be given if the proposal was adopted. The people who asked for it, and have asked for it today, which is why I and several of us have worn T-shirts like this in Parliament today to help them even more. The end-of-the-year cash register, which is something that can be used, and, yes, there is, my fellow Member, do not say that there is no, we use it for this fate, we use it to solve this matter. They're not asking for the world, they're asking for what's really important to them, and they're asking for what society can give. And we are asking you to take this into consideration and to have a debate on this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-10-239	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, the LMP Group.
u2019-12-10-240	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Since I've been here, I don't know how many times you've come before this House in some form. And, yes, I am very pleased that the care fee for children has been raised, but it is equally important that if you care for another's family member, you should still receive a higher fee. This 40-50 or 40-60 thousand forints is very, very little. Consider, too, that in many cases, the situation of the pensioner is not so either, since there are pensioners who have a pension of 40-50, 30-80 thousand forints. If your family member stays at home and takes care of them for a care fee, two of them will not be able to make a living for 100,000 forints. It is a fact, however, that there is social care that the municipalities must provide, but that is not enough. One or two hours a day or a few minutes is not enough to care for, say, a sick person in a bed. The social worker is unable to provide a full range of services; he cannot be with the nurse for 24 hours. I don't think everyone can afford to have a nurse with their elderly family. Only in my narrower country, the small hop region, there are hundreds of people lining up to get into an institution so that they can receive nursing care. But what about those who don't have that kind of income and no family member who could be obliged to care for them? How do you pay the 80-90 thousand forints fee that you have to pay for a nursing home care like this? I'm thinking of a boarding house. So the ageing society is a very, very pressing problem, as my fellow Member said. Please support this series of articles. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-10-241	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2019-12-10-242	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would respond to my fellow Member's presentation when he said why Fidesz-KDNP representatives have changed their position since 2004. They did not change their position, but their sitting position. And it doesn't matter. This problem, I think, should not be brought to Parliament so many times, but should not only be included in a series of subjects, but the government should behave in such a way that when we talk about home care, we should not only solve one segment of what was about children, but also the one who cares for their elderly parents, we should consider this problem as important as when we talk about children. [[16.50]] But let us also talk about the fact that those who do nursing work, if they do this for a long time, in most cases they themselves need help after a few years of nursing work. This is the same with caring for children, and it is the same with caring for parents that in the end, the person who does the nursing work becomes sick. This work cannot be expressed in monetary terms, it cannot be expressed how much the burden is removed from the state by coercion, because, as my fellow Member of the LMP said, he simply cannot do it for certain reasons to put his parents in an institution; either because he cannot do it financially or otherwise spiritually. I think, by joining my fellow Members, let us put it on the agenda, let us talk about it, and let us not have any money to solve this very important task. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-10-243	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2019-12-10-244	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, When we talk about home caregivers, we should always talk about them in their highest voice and thank them for the work they do. However, I would like to add a few things to some of the real mistakes that you have made here in your speeches. Congresswoman Bangóné claims that our position and meeting points have changed compared to previous years. Yours has also changed: you did not consider it important in 2009 when the 2010 budget was discussed to submit an amendment [[Gergely Harvestó: He wasn't a congressman, that's why!]] And he didn't think it was important for his party to submit an amendment which, by the way... [[Gergely Harvesto: How do you know what he thinks is important?]] You're accusing me of things from 2004, I wasn't a congressman, I wasn't even an adult at the time, but whatever. In 2010, HUF 15 billion was available for the home care fee, which is HUF 45 billion in 2019, three times that, and HUF 55 billion next year. Péter Ungár forgot one more thing: next year's budget, which you did not vote for, is 40 billion forints plus to support social institutions. Look up this amount, you might want to back it up some other time. I would like to say to all the speakers that you would have been expected by home care workers on 12 December last year, when you did not vote for the introduction of the weed, you did not vote for the introduction of the home care fee. We also said that this is not a definitive number, that there is a continuous increase in both the law and the government decree. Unfortunately, you would have been expected by the caretakers at home, but you failed them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-10-245	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to independent Congressman Bernadett Wind. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2019-12-10-246	Thank you very much. After all these years, it's hard for me to talk after a KDNP, but I'll try, because the thing is, we're not accusing you of things from 2004. This was a very good proposal from Mátrai Márta, a fantastic proposal, so fantastic that now the entire opposition is standing behind it, and it is you who are responding to it. [[Lajos Korózs: Their own representative!]] at least on the basis of the text you have just given me, my honourable fellow Member. Why? Why do you respond to the 2004 proposal of Mátra Mátrai, which just happened to be submitted by Péter Ungár and his fellow Members? You didn't answer that question. I think the root of the problem is here, because the answer is that you don't listen to these people. If they were watching, I wouldn't be standing here wearing a shirt like this. [[The T-shirt has the following inscriptions on it: -Do you have free Christmas for home-care families?]] It would have been said, let's say, today the Prime Minister would have announced in Parliament that the balance of the budget would be given to these families, as called for by the association. The Prime Minister did not make this announcement, you are not in such a T-shirt, but the opposition, and you are preparing to vote against your own previous proposal. What is this, my dear fellow Member Nacha, dear Fidesz and dear KDNP? ! This is practically the hit-and-run of these people, and that is the problem, because the fact is that you are on the government with a strong enough majority, with a pen stroke, I could make this proposal pass, it would cost you nothing. It would not even be a problem if it was an opposition proposal, since it was previously fidesz. Be kind and think about it during Christmas holidays and about New Year's Eve, but all of you there, in Fidesz and KDNP, about what has been so bad over the last few years that they are now voting off their previous proposals. There is no more civil Hungary, and there are no young democrats here, and this is the big problem, because what you are doing is a power arrogance. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] And they're using the families that are most in need, and that's a big problem.
u2019-12-10-247	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to Mr Péter Ungár, who, I think, wishes to respond to what has been said. You have two minutes. You have the floor.
u2019-12-10-248	Thank you very much. Firstly, I would like to thank the opposition representatives for their support. I just don't see why Fidesz has to stop this emerging national consensus: everyone supports a fidesz proposal, they want it, they have their fantasies, we all support it, I even put in a fidesz proposal. I would like to say to Congressman Nacsa that I have not heard anything about why it is okay, that in Hungary right now, in reality, in the material reality, which exists beyond words and propaganda, in the material reality, which is not found in the news TV studio, in this material reality, there will be 38 thousand and 58 thousand forints for those who care for their elderly demented parents at home for 0-24 hours. This amount is in the tenth year of the Fidesz government. Why not raise it to the minimum wage level? Tell me something about that. The answer is not to read a Fidesz Communication two years ago, nor is it to say that in the overall social system by 45 billion, which is very little, the number of budgets has increased. I did not vote for you, Mr Nacsa, because in Romania, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Poland there is a higher share of the social sector than in Hungary. If you say everywhere that GDP is growing by 5 percent and how well Hungary is doing, then you could get 35 billion for people who care for their mothers with Alzheimer's at home and who can't go shopping at Christmas and who can't go on holiday. They could give these people 30 billion instead of being at the Hungarian Institute of Research, while we are at it today, they're giving it to theatres where no living person has been. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: József Soldier!]] The thing is, you can't justify why you changed your mind. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] And they'll account for it to their constituents.
u2019-12-10-249	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The representative of the Democratic Coalition proposed that the National Assembly decide on the commemoration of the Armenian Genocidium, H/7887. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. First I give the floor to the author. [[For signal:]] The Member indicated that he did not wish to speak as a rapporteur. So now it's time for your representatives to speak. Would anyone like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak? [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. Here you go.
u2019-12-10-250	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, My fellow Member Ferenc Gyurcsány has presented a proposal to you which will certainly meet with the maximum support of the Fidesz-KDNP faction, since the Turkish atrocities against the Armenians have been branded as genocide by all countries, organisations and people of importance to Viktor Orbán. The alignment with Putin's Russia, the standing of the Catholic Pope or your party family, the decision of the European People's Party, provides sufficient ammunition to support this proposal in a unanimous manner, both in the spirit of Eastern opening and in the spirit of a loud Christian democracy. If the government maintains an assistant secretary of state against Christian persecution, it cannot say that it does not care about the cruel slaughter of hundreds of thousands of Christians. [[17.00]] I'm sure as the folklore says, you're not gonna make an ass out of their mouths. They won't let a genocide judge an actuated policy...
u2019-12-10-251	Congresswoman, we are in the Hungarian Parliament and the language of the people should be applied elsewhere. Not in this shape. [[Nacsa Lawrence:]]
u2019-12-10-252	All right. We have heard from you many times that the peoples of the world acknowledge the many sacrifices we have made for Europe and freedom. And honor and consistency require that what we expect is also given to other peoples. If we expect the world to remember the Hungarian victims as worthy, we cannot lie about the sacrifices suffered by the other peoples. Therefore, the Hungarian Socialist Party supports Parliament's adoption of the resolution proposal on Armenian genocide, not as a silent accomplice of a mass massacre by the Hungarian government. I am sure you will support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the lines of DK and LMP.]]
u2019-12-10-253	Thank you. As a matter of fact, Congresswoman, I'm sorry, you're wanting out of me. I'm from there, too, the people, I belong there, but what we've ever used in terms, we don't use in the country's house. Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP Group.
u2019-12-10-254	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. I am speaking very briefly about this proposal. Of course, the LMP fraction supports it. This has already been submitted to the Parliament three or four times before, unfortunately it was not included in the series of objects. We believe that the past can be closed if we call it the name of the shameful sins. Between 800,000 and 1.5 million, estimates include the number of Christian Armenians murdered. And indeed, as she said, the European Parliament has stated that this was genocide, the People's Party has declared that more than twenty countries have already done so, and Pope Francis has done so. I think this proposal is very important and I thank the rapporteur very much. Of course, the LMP will support the inclusion of the series of subjects, and I very much hope that, as a Christian, pro-government representatives will do so, and we will be able to discuss this in substance, and we will be able to accept a text that is acceptable to all factions. Thank you again to the author. Thank you. [[Krisztina Hohn and Dr. Wind Bernadett applaud.]]
u2019-12-10-255	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group.
u2019-12-10-256	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We Hungarians respectfully remember the victims of the tragedy of the Armenian people a hundred years ago. Our shared historical responsibility, the common responsibility of European peoples, is that such events should never happen again in Europe. We have practiced several important gestures towards the Armenian people. Our country has set up several monuments related to the presence of Armenians in the Carpathian Basin, and in the framework of the Council of Europe, within the framework of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, we have supported our Armenian friends in several cases, and have passed through various reports and proposals with Hungarian votes. It is a pity that Ferenc Gyurcsány again wants to use a proposal for an internal political purpose. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-12-10-257	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to independent Congressman Bernadett Wind. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-12-10-258	Dear Parliament, If Armenian genocidium were recognized by the Hungarian Parliament, we would have a very serious debt off our shoulders, because the fact is that it is a burden we carry until this House tells us the truth. This proposal, as has been put forward several times before, is to recognise as genocide the attempt to systematically eradicate the Armenians. The European Union, Germany, Austria, the Vatican, France, and even Russia declared what had happened to be genocide, and on the centennial anniversary of the Armenian genocide, it was Pope Francis himself who said that the 20th century was a genocide. The first genocide of the century was the massacre of the Armenians in Turkey. I am terribly sorry that the governing parties systematically resist calling things by their names, and that will bring history back to normal. I ask you not to make excuses and not to point the finger at the opposition, but to look at yourself and yourself, why you are not willing to do what so many countries have done before us. I think that if the answer was to be answered honestly, why they were shutting down from what they were supposed to do, they would not say such things as before, that they had already made gestures to the Armenians and voted in favour of various documents, and that they had previously said that they did not want Hungarian-Turkish relations to deteriorate. The thing is, and that's the sad truth, if you back off from this, you're on the side of the war criminals. This is a very serious situation, and the responsibility for it, as I look at the opposition's assembled unity, is essentially the burden of Fidesz and KDNP. Be kind, think about how long you intend to do this. I think there will always be people in the opposition who will submit this, and sooner or later they will not be able to avoid facing the past in this way. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: We're glad you made it to Parliament!]]
u2019-12-10-259	Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the decision will take place on tomorrow's sitting. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the measures to be taken in order to ensure the appreciation of pensioners and the social security of the elderly, H/7582. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Welfare Committee. First, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Korózs, as rapporteur, in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-12-10-260	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, This motion is here for the second time before the plenary session, and I can only confirm what I said last week. We believe that this Parliamentary resolution proposal should be supported, because the points contained in it would make the pension system, in particular, much fairer. I have drawn attention, and I am doing so now that the inflation-following pension raising technique that the Orbán government applies after 2010 will result in a total split-up of the retirement society. This is about the fact that if, unfortunately, one does not now ask or wonder for what reason, whether he has earned little or little service time, or paid a small amount of contributions, although he has worked his whole life, but there was no lawyer in his life with which he had miserablely few pensions, then this inflation-following pension-raising technique can only guarantee that his pension will be miserablely low next year, since his allowance will only increase by as much as the amount of the loss of money. As a result, one of the most important points in our proposal is the need to return to the Swiss indexation technique. It is well known here that at least 50 percent of the net wage increase in the previous year and 50 percent of the planned inflation are taken into account by the pension raising technique. I also pointed out last week that a 2.8 percent increase in pensions is being set in the adopted 2020 budget. If we were to use this so-called Swiss indexation, we would have a pension increase of around 5.6 percent. In a just pension scheme, it cannot be allowed that for the eleventh year now the minimum amount of the old-age pension is HUF 28 500, not to mention that a lot of social transfers and social benefits, such as maternity allowance or child benefit, are assigned to it. I would like to express my opinion to my fellow Members that, in connection with the parliamentary resolution, we have proposed that this minimum retirement pension of HUF 28 500 should rise to at least HUF 80,000 in the following year. It was proposed that the Constitutional Court's decision, adopted almost a year ago or now 13 months ago, should be enforced here in Parliament, as the Constitutional Court set the deadline on 31 March for invalids for the adoption of the laws which would have put people who lost their care or reduced their care after the 2012 transformation, without any substantive change in their condition. This proposal also provides for a review of the institution of the pension premium, which is now the 10th year rule in force. The maximum threshold or amount of 80 thousand HUF was set according to the average old-age pension at the time. This has not been indexed, and consequently this HUF 80,000 has lost nearly one third of its value. Our proposals include the restoration of the contribution ceiling, since there is virtually no contribution ceiling after 2012. It is also stated in this Parliamentary resolution proposal that the payment of contributions must be set in such a way that it is not possible to establish a pension of several million forints in the future. As I mentioned earlier, it would make this system fairer if, from the bottom to the bottom, the minimum old-age pension were to be increased and, from the top, the multimillion-forint pension was to be blocked. [[17.10]] It is desirable and, to conclude, I would just like to say that there are many long-established pensions, which unfortunately lost a significant part of its value. These are called impaired pensions. The inclusion of impaired pensions requires a step-by-step pension correction programme. This is broadly stated in this Parliamentary resolution proposal. I would ask my fellow Members to support my motion by voting tomorrow. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-12-10-261	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position within a two-minute time frame and the first independent representative to speak in a two-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Róbert Dudás, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2019-12-10-262	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I think there are few more topical issues than what we are discussing here, and on which we plan to include it in a series of subjects by the Parliament. As my fellow Member said before me, for more than 11 years, it has been almost 12 years since we can say that the minimum pension in Hungary is HUF 28 500. Allow me to bring you an international comparison. Of the OECD Member States, we are not in the middle field, but in the last place, Hungary has the worst indicators in terms of the ratio resulting from the comparison of minimum pensions with average earnings. I've been saying 28 500 forints again for almost 12 years! In the event that the minimum pension was raised to HUF 80,000, we would reach the Brazilian situation in terms of ratios. I just wanted to make it clear to you that the pension system in Hungary is in extreme depression, and there is plenty to do on this issue. The government closed the pension ceiling in 2013 and, while the scissors were still open, the scissors have been opening ever since. There are still 28 500 forints left for hundreds of thousands of pensioners. Eight to ten years ago, we said that there are hundreds of thousands of forints' pensions, and now we can say that we are talking about a huge number of millions' pensions. Allow me to mention only two things very briefly because of the scarcity of time. Differential pension increases are needed, as 3 percent means not as much to a minimum pensioner as to a one-million-dollar pensioner, nor should we forget that it was possible for the ladies to retire after 40 years of work, but also for the men, because we are the most vulnerable nation in Europe in this regard. In this regard, men still need to be highlighted separately, because in many cases they do not live up to the retirement age. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-12-10-263	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go.
u2019-12-10-264	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Recently, Gergely Gulyás stated that next year the pension minimum will not increase either, or, more specifically, that there is no such proposal before the government. Yes, there is! Now we'd like to put you in a series of subjects. We have done so many times to put this initiative to debate at all, but we all know that tomorrow it will be voted down as it has been before. Perhaps the answer is why this HUF 28 500 is not being raised. Because we are not only talking about minimum pensions, but this minimum pension is the amount of which we calculate a lot of other social benefits. We could say that the Fidesz-KDNP government has been saving hundreds of billions of forints on Hungarian people for nine years. But it is also very important that we can at least debate these measures, because we have seen in recent years that poverty has grown dramatically in two social groups in Hungary. On the one hand, among workers who work and have a salary, and the other social group are pensioners, among whom the indicator of poverty has increased by about 50 percent in recent years in relation to the benefit of Fidesz-KDNP. In any case, it is tragic, my fellow Members, that we are talking about the social group who worked their lives off, and we can slowly say that their paid pension, which they paid to the state in the past, is enough to make them miserable. This isn't right at all. On the other hand, we cannot make progress in the home care fee, nor in this proposal, even though we are talking about our parents when we talk about pensions. I think this is one of the most disappointing things that is happening in this House today. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-12-10-265	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, the LMP Group.
u2019-12-10-266	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, the draft law is supported by the faction; it supports it all the more, because it has several parts that I myself or we have submitted ourselves. But not only is this important, but also what I am saddened to realize is that these are actually the last such debates, if I know correctly, here in front of this House, because we will no longer be able to bring in these billings, we cannot ask them before the House, but only before the Legislative Committee, if I know so; if I do not, then correct me! The current retirement pension minimum is 28 500 HUF, and this is unsustainable, I think it has not increased in recent years. Although it is a fact that pensions are not calculated from this, this has been said here several times, but this is the basis and the combination of a wide variety of social benefits. We have also been told in response that if this is raised, then municipalities and others will be in a bad position. However, the multipliers can also be changed, so the amendment of the municipal decree allows a certain blend of the current old-age pension minimum to be the basis for various benefits, and the social law also provides for the possibility of doing so, so this could also be changed if it were to rise too much. We've told you several times that 50,000 forints should be easy. If you acknowledge that the minimum wage is HUF 99 085, which means that the minimum wage is nearly HUF 100,000, then you should also acknowledge that there would not be a pension in Hungary under HUF 100,000, but certainly not under HUF 50 thousand, because statistics show that unfortunately many people are forced to do so. I know these things myself. They were working! That's when they say they didn't work, they didn't pay any contributions. It's not like that. They may have had a lower salary, worked in jobs where they made less money. That's why I'm asking you, just on the occasion of this day, that it will never happen again, to support this series of subjects. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-10-267	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2019-12-10-268	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I have to tell my colleague, Mr Korózs, that my colleagues have failed, because I asked them to look for a statement from you between 2004 and 2010 in which you claim that your government, which was the only one since the change of regime, which reduced the pension, should not do so. No such statement has been found from you, even though you were Secretary of State of the Elderly Council from 2004 to 2010, twice as Secretary of State of the Social Wallet. You have never once been found in a statement in which you claimed that the Gyurcsány government should not reduce pensions as the only one in Hungarian history since 90. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's not true! Look at how much the average pension was in 2010 and how much it was in 2002.]] We didn't find a statement like that. [[Gergely Harvesto: You're not telling the truth!]] I'm sure my coworkers were wrong, but somehow such a statement from you... [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Here you go, Congressman Harvester. [[Gergely Harvesto: It's not worth pushing a button!]] Like I should have done right away, but he wasn't here. On the other hand, he never raised his word against your inflection of the value of pensions, never raising his word against you reducing the value of pensions. On the other hand, the reality is this: since 2010, there has been a 33-percent increase in pensions, which meant a 10-percent increase in purchasing value. In contrast to you reducing pensions, we maintained their value, as promised to the pensioners, and even increased it, we were able to pay a pension premium several times, and we gave an Elizabeth voucher worth 81 billion forints. You were the only government who reduced pensions, and we were the ones who not only maintained their purchasing value, but even increased it. We are listening to you in the matter of pensions, from your right-hand or socialist colleagues who have voted off the wishes of 220,000 women to retire after 40 years of employment, you have not supported this, and you would have left 220,000 women without such care or such a discount. Fortunately, the majority of the Fidesz-KDNP were in place, and we voted in favour of the Women's 40, so 220,000 women were able to make use of this option. They couldn't count on you again. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[17.20]]
u2019-12-10-269	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide to clarify the circumstances of individual government software licenses and with this... [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP: Rejoice, Mr President. Nacsa Lőrinc: Rejoice! Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Missed!]] Excuse me? I ask for your understanding. I think that the very intense debate here at the end of the year seems to have caused some problems for the chairman. I will follow you, Congressman Korózs in particular. You have the floor for two minutes. Here you go.
u2019-12-10-270	We started early today, so nothing happened, Mr. President. Just a few sentences very briefly. One is that I think it is extremely important that we all understand what we are talking about. Here is a parliamentary resolution proposal, which has points, it seems that there is no paragraph on the opposition side, no point in this proposal that would not be supported. There's a bunch of NGOs from NOSZ through the NYOK through the National Association of Trade Unions, through a retirement association that agrees with all of them. At the end of the year preceding last, a round table was established for pensions and ageing, and all the political parties on the round table agreed. I didn't say anything, and I didn't bring it here that didn't have consensus. Therefore, I repeat that here, I believe that this parliamentary resolution proposal can be supported, because it would give the government a task. The government will bring its ideas here to the Parliament, and then we will discuss how this is all right. I'd like to say two things, not go into detail, because this time is short. Never since the change of regime in Hungarian history, when we were ruling, there was no such thing as a pensioner who didn't get his pension. So they never took a month's pension from anyone here. That's a lie! I'm proud to pay 13 months' pensions for seven and a half years. When the economic crisis swept it away [[Nacsa Lawrence:]] Even then, we were able to pay a pension for two weeks. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Credit!]] And it's been ten years since you've been ruling, Congressman, and you haven't returned it. That's one thing. On the other hand, let us be clear, fellow Members, that if we at least respect the numbers, if we do not respect each other, at least the numbers, then I can prove to you exactly that the institution of the pension premium, of which I was a nationalist, was adopted by the Bajnai Government in 2009... My dear friends. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Just never paid! The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] You took 42,000 forints out of a pensioner's pocket just because you didn't pay the premium at fair value. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: How many times have you paid? Tibor Nunkovich intervenes. Nacsa Lőrinc: Don't protect them! A statement from the Fidesz: Don't point, Nunkovich!]] Thank you very much. I want you to support the motion tomorrow.
u2019-12-10-271	Thank you very much, Congressman. Your time is up. You can do that at a later date. Dear Parliament, I must now announce that the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. I ask for your understanding towards the end of the year. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has proposed that the Parliament decide. H/7269 on the setting up of an investigation committee to clarify the circumstances of individual government software license purchases and to investigate corruption related to them. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I will give the floor to the rapporteur in a five-minute time frame, who is Mr Lajos Korózs. Here you go.
u2019-12-10-272	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, It is also not the first time that this issue has been before this House. What we're talking about here is we've initiated a committee of inquiry. For the sake of historical loyalty, I would like to note that for the same act that we would like to set up this committee of inquiry, in the United States of America, this software company was punished for billions of dollars. It is also known to you that between 2013 and 15 you have given tremendous discounts to various licenses and brokerage companies, and later these licences were passed on to the Hungarian authorities at market prices. I think that if the pro-government side had nothing to hide and the Orbán government had nothing to hide, it could support the establishment of this committee of inquiry without further ado, because, as I said, there is nothing else. For example, the Hungarian National Tax and Customs Office, the National Police Headquarters and the Institute for Education Research and Development who participated in this transaction were specifically identified by the US SEC. I stress that there the SEC clearly identified these organizations. Here, it should be made clear that there were other Hungarian public bodies involved in the affected public procurement procedures, which were these bodies, and that the procurement procedures were influenced for whose part or for whose behalf. Furthermore, this committee of inquiry should have an answer to the steps taken by the relevant bodies since the events to reduce corruption risks. This is where we should respond to the procedural actions taken by the Hungarian authorities in order to investigate the cases and to compensate for the damage suffered by the State, and we should be able to find out here that if the Hungarian authorities with competence to investigate these cases have failed to take procedural action, they have been justified. In addition, we should be able to find out what decision-making mechanisms have been used in cases of corruption. I would ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of this motion tomorrow. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-12-10-273	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács, Jobbik Group.
u2019-12-10-274	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The basic thesis on this proposal is that it is possible to examine it, especially if such amounts have arisen or such suspicions. On the other hand, because transparency is really important for every government procurement, and if this cannot be achieved before it is built into the process, then it is possible to investigate it afterwards. I will also tell those fellow Members why it is worthwhile for Microsoft to be able to say his name, which is why, obviously, the consequences must be taken. The reason why we need to look at Microsoft's various operations and things is because I am looking at my fellow Members who were Members of Parliament in the previous term. Ladies and gentlemen, the laptops you worked on and I do not claim to have been part of this act, but the laptop that handled and used it knows precisely that it was an unmanageable, worthless laptop that we acquired for 700 thousand forints. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: That's right!]] For almost 800,000 forints from the company involved in this business. Whoever saw that machine work, let alone 800,000 forints, wouldn't give 100,000 for that hybrid laptop. So how far it may go, or how long it may be a problem, let us consider, fellow Members, why it would be worth setting up such a committee of inquiry. And it's just the tip of the iceberg, it's just the very privileged 199 representatives of God-knows-how and how they got their laptop, which we might not be looking at, but there were cases like this and there were definitely 100 percent. And that is what we are asking for, and it doesn't matter that the opposition proposes it, it should be examined even if it is not proposed by the opposition. This should also be part of government control and parliamentary control. And we ask nothing less than for Parliament to have the opportunity to examine, and we ask that you be partners in this, because such a committee of inquiry can only be successful if you give the authority, but this committee of inquiry is still trying. Ladies and gentlemen, Support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-10-275	I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP Group.
u2019-12-10-276	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The bill will, of course, be supported by the LMP faction's apologies, resolution proposals! We always use all the tools to fight corruption, and this is an incredibly harsh case of hundreds of millions. I thought it was important for me to comment briefly, because we are not in the proposal as a rapporteur, but there are only technical reasons for this, but we support the inclusion in the series of subjects. In fact, taking advantage of the fact that Congressman Nacsa is in this room and has spoken to all the subjects, I am very confident that Mr. [[Lőrinc Nacsa is talking to the people in the box behind the benches of the governing parties.]] Although he may not hear me talking to him as the mouthpiece of the government side, he will explain to us that he is in favour of putting the proposal on the agenda, at all, that the proposal will be included in a series of subjects. [[17 .30]] And if you support this, you will support a committee of inquiry to start investigating this matter. I very much hope that someone will tell Congressman Nacsa that such a request has come to him now, and that he will speak on this matter and that we will find out the government's position. Thank you very much. (Applause from the benches of opposition parties)
u2019-12-10-277	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP Group.
u2019-12-10-278	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In order to clarify the circumstances of individual government software license purchases and to establish an investigation committee for the detection of corruption related to them, we are talking about this at all. That's so weird. Set up a committee of inquiry on a series of subjects. The Fidesz-KDNP majority was not allowed to set up a committee of inquiry during the last cycle and this year's cycle. This is indeed the bottom of everything that we are talking about, a committee of inquiry, with which we want to expose corruption, where we are talking about actors that are affected by the National Police Headquarters, the NAV, the IRS and the Education Office. Seriously, what else has to happen in this House so that we can set up a committee of inquiry on the proposal of opposition representatives? And we are now at the point where we are asking a committee of inquiry to try to reach it through a series of initiatives. We also know that we will not succeed, but, fellow members of the Government, think about how bizarre this is. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-12-10-279	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. I give the floor to Mr Lajos Korózs, who obviously wishes to respond to what has been said. Here you go.
u2019-12-10-280	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, I didn't say it in the intro. I was just suggesting it wasn't a smoke. Dear fellow Members, just because Microsoft was punished out in America is $8.7 million. That's a lot of money, even in America, a lot of money. So it was obvious that you were a scoundrel. They were caught in the act, and it's not a license, it's not two. I have just looked at the original document, my fellow Members, we are talking about 334 licenses and more than HUF 22 000 million. We're talking 22,2 billion forints! In addition to what I just said, the answer should be given to what was needed to include so-called intermediate actors here. What vertical and horizontal contributions were there in the mergers? Who has political responsibility, and who has criminal responsibility in this matter? That's the answer we're gonna need for tomorrow. I hope my fellow Members will support our motion. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. Thank you for the floor.
u2019-12-10-281	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Group of Dialogue has proposed that the Parliament decide on the implementation of the transparency provisions adopted by the new Metropolitan Assembly at the local authorities in Hungary, entitled H/7961. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to the rapporteur, Congressman Bence Tordai, within a five-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2019-12-10-282	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, On October 13, 2019 a new era began in the life of Hungary: after Fidesz's more than nine years of Regency and regime building, the majority of the Republicans defeated Viktor Orbán's people in Budapest and in a large part of the county-righted cities, and a new political culture was established in Hungary. Instead of government based on theft, converting power from money and political practice of converting more money from power, which we have seen from Fidesz, the political practice of the clean hand has been established, and in this spirit, the Metropolitan Assembly adopted, without a vote against, the regulation of transparency, which guarantees that Budapest will be a city of clean hands. Gergely Christmas, as mayor of Zugló, also presented the anti-corruption and transparency minimum developed by civil society organisations at the first general meeting and obtained a majority. The co-chair of the Dialogue, of course, did so then and ever since, in order to create a clean public life, and it seems that there are more and more partners in this. It is natural that the parties of the united opposition, the majority of the Republicans, supported this proposal in Budapest, but it seems that the Fidesz mayors who want to account for their conscience and political decisions to their own voters were forced to support it; they could not say no to what is otherwise the practice of everyday life in the national administration of Fidesz, and in the case of Budapest, it is fortunate to oppose it. And now the Dialogue is attempting, for the second time, to extend this good practice to all the governments of the country after Budapest. We therefore propose to the Parliament that it establish a law on the obligation of every local government to recognise these strict transparency and anti-corruption standards for itself. And we can only hope that this good example will be passed on to national governance, and we will see such practices in the future. Just a few examples of how, if this anti-corruption package had been in place, the minimum package would have been in place, how the recent history of some important cities in Hungary would have evolved, how things would have changed. For example, Zsolt Borkai in Győr would not have been able to channel 5-6 billion forints from the money of the Győr into private pockets in a lower voice, and who knows how suspicious he was, from which, later on, we know that he financed his debauchery life among other things. Or, for example, in the Hódmezővásárhely led by János Lázár, the elite scandal of István Tiborcz, the son-in-law of Viktor Orbán would have failed immediately, since there began the series of frauds, the organized series of frauds committed in a criminal organisation, which OLAF also established, and which caused damage to Hungarian taxpayers for 13 000 million HUF. If this transparency and anti-corruption decree had worked in Hodmezővásárhely, it would have come to light. But the same would have been the case in the Budapest of István Tarlós, which has not only faded and shrunk in the last nine years, but has become one of the most important paying places in Fidesz. So it could be that Lőrinc Mészáros's brokerage company made hundreds of millions of forints on the insurance of the capital companies, while the companies concerned profited virtually nothing from it. Or it could be that the FKF's purchases went on many times the market price, and here, too, obviously, Fidesz-near interests were enriched by the taxpayers' money in Budapest. If this clean practice of Gergely Christmas and the Republican majority had already been in place, then none of this could have happened, then we could have saved many tens and hundreds of billions to the taxpayers of large cities nationwide. That is why the Dialogue suggests that the . This is the minimum that has been adopted in Budapest! The package should be mandatory in all the governments of the country; we should know what is happening to our taxforints; let us see who the municipalities and local government companies are getting into; and let us shut down the money taps through which the Hungarian people's money is being pumped out of the system by the Oligarchs near Fidesz. I ask your support for all these noble goals. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-10-283	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman János Bencsik, Jobbik Group.
u2019-12-10-284	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We agree to the broadest possible transparency for municipalities. We also consider this important so that these rules are not playable. So, for example, to change the current practice that looks like a number of municipal regulations are being uploaded to poorly or barely readable pdf, which makes it virtually impossible to search for substance and that each municipal submission should also be published in an electronically searchable form. We also want clear sanctions. At present, there are a number of municipalities that fail to disclose these data either on the basis of technical errors, and it is not clear to whom, for example, they can be contacted and what sanctions this will attract. [[17.40]] Finally, I think it is also important to point out that we find it very sad that 30 years after the so-called change of regime, such a proposal for a resolution must now be debated at all, so that it is not self-evident and that it is three decades past, and we must now discuss with each other whether or not to put such a proposal on the agenda at all. We hope that it will make it easier for corruption suspects, suspicious contracts for clear, transparent use of public funds to avoid corruption-suspecting cases such as those that have been parked in recent years, or property rental and sale cases to be avoided in the future. Jobbik will therefore support the initiative as a responsible civil, conservative opposition party. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-10-285	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP Group.
u2019-12-10-286	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Joining my fellow Member, Mr Bencsik, if we now look at how some municipalities operate their website at all, we can create a rather tragic picture of the municipalities of Hungary. There are local governments and there are a lot of them where they haven't uploaded anything for several years, but it would be mandatory to ensure transparency, and if we even try to find or even find proposals or contracts with local authorities, we have noticed in most municipalities in recent years that they have tried to hide them in such a complicated way that it is difficult to find them. And the other thing we've seen in recent years is the SAO's investigations into the municipalities and the municipal companies they've been doing. I read every report the SAO sends, every congressman gets. I think that we can draw rather interesting things, conclusions from the last few years when we look at local governments when we talk about operation, transparency and corruption. I think it would be worthwhile for all Members to read these reports in such a way that it is not entirely possible to say about the SAO that it is independent of the government, and I will even put it delicately. So it is very important that we have transparency in any way, and, of course, we can only support it on the part of the Hungarian Socialist Party, if we are talking about any institution, company or self-government maintained by any state or local government. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-12-10-287	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Mellár, Group of Dialogues. Here you go.
u2019-12-10-288	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Local governments publish far less data on their operation and management than is expected, although according to the Constitution, all public-sector organisations are obliged to account for their public-public management. Here, let me continue what my colleague Bence Tordai said: if this transparency law had been valid in previous years, then, for example, in my constituency, in Pécs, it would not have been possible for the city to have a debt of HUF 23 billion at the moment, so that in 2014 the government, the government measure, described the debt to zero. So in a short period of five years, we managed to bring together 23 billion in debt without having an owner, and it is not really possible to know how it is. Obviously, part of it is in municipal companies, and it would therefore be very important to have a much stronger and much wider overview of the operation of municipal companies, so that the tenders they issue are made public, so that the representatives' declarations of assets are also made public, so that the budget they are submitting really serves, so that it is sufficiently transparent and can be properly followed up to such transparency in terms of closing accounts. I therefore warmly support this proposal for a resolution, and I would also like to ask my fellow Members, with their vote, to support this, in order to put citizens in a position where they can decide, with sufficient information, that the municipalities are working well or less well. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-12-10-289	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2019-12-10-290	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Again, I thank the rapporteur for this proposal. What we all know is that a significant part of corruption is created during municipal operations, and the source of this is the lack of transparency. It is very easy for a municipality, say, to hide the management of various public funds, so we also support all such proposals. But Bence Tordai, as the author, made very serious commitments regarding the operation of the capital, and I would just say that it should be so, so that we can do so, and in a few years we can say that we have succeeded in doing so; it would certainly be exemplary. However, it is justified to propose that these frameworks should be set at national level. This is visible, by the way, so it is not worth mentioning how many and how many cases of government corruption we see, Professor Mellar mentioned the case in Pécs. As a public figure in Pécs, we can see that even in the case of corruption cases of previous left-wing leadership, we can't see clearly, and there is no accountability, and the Fidesz has done the same thing, the city is in an amazing position. I am basically in favour of leaving the autonomy of the local government as wide as possible, so let's say we should give the municipality the opportunity to regulate its own operation and order of business, but practice and life have proven that unfortunately we cannot. Such freedom cannot be allowed, for this has been abused by many and, by the way, by many, regardless of party colors. So these most fundamental things are indeed also justified by law. I do not want to mention that a decision on such a proposal can be made before a responsible decision on public funds is made available to the public, so I think that it is quite an amazing minimum, but also that it is possible to trace back the vote by name, so that accountability can be achieved. Then I came again with an example from Pécs, in connection with a specific acquisition, I would have liked to have seen a 2006 roll call, and the notary smiled and said that the data had been destroyed because it was not part of the record, the decision was part of the decision, but that who pressed the button was destroyed in a 2006 decision. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So it is an extremely important proposal to replace the gap, and we are happy to support the inclusion of the subject series. Thank you.
u2019-12-10-291	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, A speech will be made by Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, the KDNP Group.
u2019-12-10-292	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It was quite humorous to listen to Tordai Bence, and he brought the entire Christmas Gregory package into Parliament. After all, it is funny to listen to transparency rules from a former Mayor of Zugló, where parking scandals cost a million forints a day to the Zuglós, where all sorts of suspicious real estate transactions took place. In the spirit of transparency, your liberal, dictatorial representatives and capital leaders put people like Tibor Draskovics, like István Kolber, like Imre Lakos, like Sofia Havas, like Zoltán Gál, like Tamás Katona, the Tamás Katona, whose last year of State Secretary for Finance, in 2006 the lack of budget was a world record. Sorry, let's not be unfair, it was a country, the war-torn Lebanon, where the budget deficit was higher than in Hungary. It was in the spirit of transparency! Czeglédy Gergő and Csaba Czeglédy have been appointed transparency commissioner in various municipalities and concluded contracts for due diligence. Your transparency extends to the appointment of a convicted tax criminal as transparency commissioner. This was also Zoltán Bodnár or János Atkári; Zoltán Bodnár from the Kulcsár scandal may be familiar. All of this was done by you, in the spirit of transparency. In the spirit of transparency, I would like to add that as a tax payer in Budapest, we were happy to fund that 30 million HUF thank-you party for Gergely Christmas, I hope it wasn't so expensive because it was a Lackner party. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-10-293	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Bence Tordai as rapporteur, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2019-12-10-294	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you for your support to the opposition groups, the MSZP, the LMP, Jobbik and Tamás Mellar. And I understand that Fidesz-KDNP does not applaud this proposal, because it goes against all the politics that has been shown here in Hungary for the past nine and a half years and has shown itself in Győr Borkai or even in István Tarlós' Budapest, so we do not want to convince you, because we really do not have much hope that it is possible. All I ask is that you consider Zoltán Pokorni's 2010 words. He said that if you mess with the joint, they'll cut off your hand. [[17.50]] Unfortunately, he didn't keep his promise, but I take it as a sign of foresight that football in Fidesz is the popular sport, not the handball, because if he did, the Fidesz-KDNP handball team would be in big trouble. I would just like to point out that the Dialogue does not think about what, otherwise unreconciled sanctions can be used to threaten those thieving individuals who, for example, occupy a good number of seats in the Fidesz government, but that we want no one to touch in common. We just put the register in the middle, and everyone sees what's happening to him. I'm glad Nacha Lawrence nods. This would obviously be a completely new exercise for you. We are happy to take on the education of the Fidesz people, show them how to deal transparently with public money. We ask the Parliament's support to enable this anti-corruption package of transparency to be implemented not only in Budapest but also in all municipalities after Budapest, which I thank the civil society organisations that worked this out a few years ago. So I'm not ready to give up hope for tomorrow's vote and their support vote. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-10-295	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Group of Dialogue has proposed that Parliament decide on the eradication of poverty, H/7730. Proposal for a decision on inclusion in the scope of this Regulation. The series of articles was rejected by the Welfare Committee. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the rapporteur, Mrs Szabó Timea, is not in the Chamber, and so now we are going to hear further speeches from its Members. Each representative may present his position within a time frame of 2 to 2 minutes per group of representatives, as well as in a two-minute time frame for the first independent Member to speak. First, I give the floor to Congressman Bence Tordai, Group of Dialogues.
u2019-12-10-296	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Today, only the privileged few in Hungary have the rest of their financial security. Nearly three-quarters of the people couldn't afford a couple of ten thousand forints. Millions live day by day or month by month, many have almost nothing, others have reason to worry about losing a little income or suddenly faltering their foundation. No wonder the masses of Hungarians are afraid of tomorrow, they are tense, stressed, frustrated. We have become a land of hopelessness, from which hundreds of thousands of people wander out, and millions have given up hope that their fate may ever be better. Many also feel anger and envy, for they see that over the past two and a half decades, a few thousand people have had enormous wealth piled up in their hands, often undeserved or outlawed. And they also see that no matter how hard they struggle, life prospects are basically determined by who is born where. It is understandable that there has been a loss of confidence in the power elite and, in particular, in today's power practitioners, which drives, and even supports, such an unfair system of human vulnerability. That is why our fellow Members could eliminate the third republic without any substantial opposition, and that is why the fourth Republic must be built on a strong social basis. In a country where everyone is given basic life security, where progress is a matter of diligence and talent, where there are no irritating inequalities, people are happier and healthier, children are better at school and adults at work, more trust and less crime, more solidarity and democracy. It is therefore necessary to implement the measures listed in this Decision as soon as possible. In this spirit, the Dialogue presented its 20-point package on poverty eradication, which would take urgent steps to improve our lives in the areas of housing, income security, education, social care and health care. I need your support for this. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-10-297	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Róbert Dudás, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2019-12-10-298	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, In the countryside, people read data that appear as statistical data, including development and development, year after year. Allow me to set a specific example here, and this is a matter of average earnings. They wonder whether these data are real or whether they are about Hungary, because if they are about Hungary and they are even real, they probably do not live in Hungary. Data that can be estimated at approximately 350 thousand forints in terms of average earnings, in many cases families in Hungary do not earn that much in one month. In many cases, they don't earn that much, they lack it, and they live not only from month to month, but from day to day in many cases. In many households there is no electricity, no water, no opportunities, no living conditions. Allow me to bring the question of children here. In Hungary, there are hundreds of thousands of children who do not get warm food every day, there is no proper roof over their heads, so we see sad children and sad parents, because the parent wants to work to give his child everything, but unfortunately, this is not always guaranteed in Hungary. I think that as long as there is a hungry mouth, as long as there is a sad eye, until every child gets at least once a day hot food and a heated room, we should not be talking about anything else until this question is resolved. On behalf of the Jobbik, I can say that we support this initiative. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik and Dialogue.]]
u2019-12-10-299	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP Group.
u2019-12-10-300	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We should talk about a very important issue at a time when we bring proposals for poverty eradication to plenary. But we see again that we are talking about a series of initiatives. Although we are now before Christmas, and we can see that, thanks to God, solidarity is growing in people, and we can see that everyone is striving to help our fellow countrymen who are in trouble and need it, if only with a little gift, anything that we can use, firewood, anything. However, allow me to express criticism. We have seen in the campaigns of the past period and in the communication of the governing party that they do not really like to admit that there is poverty in Hungary, yet Hungarian potatoes and apples are essentially disappearing from the Hungarian markets at the time of the campaigns in Hungary. This is because my fellow Members from Fidesz and KDNP are beginning to distribute this. I'm just going to give you the example of Csepel. After the elections, Mayor Lénárd Borbély distributed 4,000 packets of potatoes and apples, so to speak, in relation to non-existent poverty in Hungary. I say this because there really are so many potato distributions that they buy it for cars in Hungary, and after the elections we stand here without Hungarian potatoes. It could be considered funny, fellow Members, but it is not. I would just like to say that we should talk between Parliament's walls about where we are now, how deep Hungary has deepened in recent years, and the Central Statistical Office cannot hide this from the depth of poverty. I commend my fellow Member to the attention of the new report: poverty has deepened by several percentage points in Hungary. I think we should talk about this much more here, because it is a much more serious subject. We, of course, support the initiative. Thank you.
u2019-12-10-301	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, the LMP Group.
u2019-12-10-302	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, we can talk about the inclusion in the series of articles of the bill on poverty, and I have said many times that, unfortunately, it is the last time in front of this House. I think that we should not be suffering from such a series of legislative proposals here, and that there could have been another way to do this than the mouth lock law, that it would be possible to ask them only to the Legislative Committee. There could have been a way for you to let them through the committees, and then you wouldn't be here. It's people's lives, people's fates. I believe that, until there are incomes, pensions, wages, invalid pensions from which there will be a decent living in Hungary, or there will be no such income from a broad social population, there will always be proposals of this kind from time to time, if not before this House, then before the Legislative Committee, because we will not be discouraged by the fact that we cannot talk about it here. Until then, we must regularly submit proposals on the pension increase, the current retirement pension minimum, the care fee, raise our voice against child poverty and fight poverty. We are here to draw attention to the problems of various social groups, to warn them that the king may be naked. [[18.00]] We have to do this, so we've been selected from the list. And I think that we do need to seize all the legal means in order to draw your attention to the fact that one of you may once take the idea and submit it to this House, and since it will not be an opposition, you will accept it. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2019-12-10-303	Thank you too, Congresswoman. The next speaker was Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, Christian Democratic People's Party, for a full speech.
u2019-12-10-304	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It is very important to eliminate poverty, it can be a common goal, I think that everything must be done for this, and in the last nine years we have done a great deal to reduce poverty in Hungary, to reduce the number of poor in Hungary. We have tried to achieve this through various measures. Work is the most important element of this. You've built an aid-based society, we're building a work-based society. That's why 833 thousand more people work than in 2010. I think that work is the most important tool for recovering from poverty, which is why work should be constantly supported by reductions in contributions, tax reductions and various job creation actions. It is very good that you brought up the report on the standard of living of the household, which was published from 2018 at the beginning of December, and is very new. I'd like to quote a few of these, because you don't seem to have read it, or a very old one, a 2009 read instead of 2019, and read such bad numbers. Consumption increased by 35% compared to 2010. In 2018, the personal expenditure per capita was HUF 1 million 223 thousand, which exceeded the previous year, 2017 by 10,6 percent. The number of people affected by severe material deprivation has decreased since 2010. There are 1.3 million fewer people with pay backs than in 2010. 4 million more people have money for unexpected expenses than in 2010. 2.4 million more people can go on vacation for a week than in 2010. The number of people who can't heat their apartment is down by $650,000. It has decreased, thank God, the proportion of people living below the income poverty line, the number of people living in households with very low work intensity and fewer people are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. By the way, we are the top riders in the European Union in the number of people exposed to severe material deprivation, the first three have the decline that we have achieved between 2010 and 2018 thanks to the Hungarian government's social policy, economic policy and the hard work of the people. I think these are extremely good numbers. We mustn't stop here, we must go on until poverty is eliminated, but these numbers are true, not what you said. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-10-305	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if you'd like to answer in two minutes. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Group of Dialogue has proposed that the Parliament decide on the 1993 XLVIII. T/8022. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Committee for Sustainable Development. Dear Parliament, First, I will give the floor to the author in a five-minute time frame. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor.
u2019-12-10-306	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, This proposal, which is about amending the Mining Act, is actually a bill against the opening of mines in Lex Pilis, and it may not be elegant to tailor legislative processes to individual cases, but in this case, [[Nacsa Lőrinc: But still...]] We felt that we had no other means, because perhaps everyone who followed this case knew that they wanted to reopen a mine that had been closed in Pilis for decades; an area that has since been restored by nature, a beautiful natural landscape covered by forest in reality, and, moreover, a nature reserve of European importance, located in the immediate vicinity of a Natura 2000 area. This mine opening is also opposed to the settlements of Pilisvörösvár and Pilisszántó, but it is opposed by all well - feeling people to whom Pilis is particularly kind for such reasons or for reasons. And if we think that in this mine they would want to produce something that could not be found anywhere else in the world or even in Hungary, or if we thought that they wanted to mine something of particular value here, then I would have to disappoint everyone: they would produce a murderous, crushed stone there, at least according to the investor's intention, the market value of which is 7 forints per kilogram. So basically they want to produce a worthless construction material at the cost of destroying the protected Pilis landscape, and of course we always wonder who's in the interest, who's behind it, and today in Hungary we always have to look for a fidesz connection. But the fact is that it was only a very weak, very mild fidesz background behind the investment company, so that's why I was hopeful, when the Fidesz individual parliamentary representative of the region, Sándor Hadházy, appeared at a large residential forum in Pilisvörösvár, and my question was that he was willing to be a partner in preventing Pilis from being destroyed by legislative means, he actually reacted openly. After that, I was somewhat disappointed to note that despite the fact that I had been looking for him several times, even though I invited him through Parlex's system to be a joint author of this mining law amendment, he rejected this opportunity in a round pretzel, and the Committee for Sustainable Development was not a partner in protecting the truly unique natural treasures of Pilis. So I am now turning to the Parliament's plenum here in the name of the Dialogue, and perhaps also representing the people of Pilis and the Hungarian people who are important to Pilis, I ask you to help prevent Pilis from being destroyed. Don't open a worthless, worthless mine in that beautiful forested, pointy area. So that is what this very short bill amending the Mining Act is all about, and I would like the support of the opposition and the pro-government factions to include it in the series. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-10-307	Thank you, Congressman Bence of Tordai. Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. I give the floor to the first candidate, László Keresztes, leader of the Lóránt Group, LMP.
u2019-12-10-308	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The purpose or key point of this bill is that mining activities should not be authorised in Natura 2000 areas or on property directly adjacent to it. This is an extremely important measure, and we can support this in itself. On behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Tordai said that this bill was written on a specific matter and that it was not very elegant. I can tell you it's elegant. Yes, it is very important to present an elegant bill on a green matter. But in this way I will come to the assistance of the Dialogue faction, and then a general proposal could be made from this proposal, which, although brought to Parliament by a case, can be applied in many other cases. Yeah, I'm a peck. Mr Mellar also knows that for a very long time they wanted to restart uranium mining activities in the neighbourhood of Pécs, and they did research drilling in the area of Pécs in order to prepare for uranium mining activities, in a very amazing, unsuspecting and astonishing way. So we fully support the inclusion of the series of objects, and if there is a relief here in the next period that Fidesz will allow this to take place, then I would like to make an addition not only to specific mining activities, but also to this type of environmental destruction and preparatory activity. We know that in a uranium test drilling, the drilling sludge flows, and it was quite shocking that for a few thousand forints I was serious, for a few thousand forints the municipality gave up such a Natura area, or allowed the activity to take place. So it is certainly justified, and I think that we can use this proposal in all cases where it is not really justified in any way or in any economic way, but in all respects, we can prevent environmentally destructive procedures, mine re-openings or mining activities in these areas in areas to be protected. Therefore, thank you very much for the proposal and we will support the inclusion in the series. [[18.10]]
u2019-12-10-309	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. The next speaker is Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP.
u2019-12-10-310	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, we also provide support from the Hungarian Socialist Party. And if we are talking about how important it is to deal more with these problems, how we are going to protect those natural resources, whether we are talking about land, water and nature itself, from Natura 2000 areas, then again, if we are talking about poverty or pensioners, that we should talk about this problem a lot more, because we can only borrow everything, we can agree on that. It's either a green future or nothing. You can't argue with that. Because we won't have a future if the future isn't green. So all I am asking for is the support of the pro-government representatives and I can recommend to everyone that we talk more and more about these problems. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2019-12-10-311	Thank you, Congresswoman. The next speaker is Congressman Tibor Nunkovics, Jobbik.
u2019-12-10-312	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I was also at the ominous public forum in Pilisvörösvár, where the locals and the Pilissántoi said they didn't want this mine to be reopened, this open-air quarry. Then, too, my fellow Member, we have also started looking for solutions. On separate roads, but we suggested the same thing. Both of our proposals and legislative proposals have been wiped out by the pro-government majority. My proposal included that we wanted local residents to be able to decide, by referendum, within a certain kilometer, whether or not to contribute to the reopening of such a surface quarry. My fellow Member mentioned what kind of fidesz threads they were trying to forget in this case. There may not have been much here, but there is the case of Kesztölc, which is on the other side of Pilis, and there, for example, Dolomit Kft., the company of Orbán Győző has appeared in the last few weeks. What a coincidence! There, too, they want to reopen a long - closed open quarry. Now, dear fellow Members, I believe that the materials produced here are necessary, but I ask you very much that we let the locals who live there decide that the negative effects of this will be on their shoulders, or their health will have a negative impact, I beg you, let them decide whether they need these negative effects or not. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-10-313	Thank you very much, Congressman. I don't see any more applicants. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Tordai, if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate.
u2019-12-10-314	Thank you for the floor, for the opportunity, Mr President. Thank you for your support to the MSZP faction, thank you to Mr László Keresztes Lóránt LMP group leader for his wise additions. I hope we have a way to put this into practice. And thank you to Tibor Nunkovics, my better colleague, for your work on this matter. I am a little disappointed because, on the one hand, I thought there was a designated speaker from Fidesz, and on the other hand, it would have been quite elegant for Sándor Hadházy to appear as a Member of Parliament in this debate. You know exactly what this case is about, you know exactly what you're running from. I do not think it is possible to hide from political responsibility, even if he is not present at this late hour, nor does any other representative of Fidesz-KDNP agree to make their views public in advance. But I am an eternal optimist, so I see the lack of rejection as a pale hope, so I look forward to the vote tomorrow, and I hope that you will sleep on it, and you can at least support the inclusion in the series of articles, where, of course, you know the details of the bill, and we can change it. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-10-315	Thank you, Congressman Tordai. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Jobbik Group has proposed that the Parliament decide on the assistance of persons trapped in debt, T/7951. Bill No. 1 on inclusion in the series of articles. The series of articles was rejected by the Judicial Committee. First, I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, within a five-minute time frame. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-12-10-316	Mr President, Dear House, In the last two weeks, I have been invited to the Judicial Committee, and I have been discussed by this committee on two of my closely related proposals. One of the disappointing political experiences of Hungarian parliamentarism and, by the way, I can say that it was a human experience. My first proposal would have extended the eviction moratorium, not only until March, but in a much longer way, until either this government fulfills its own promise to leave no one on the side of the road, or a common consensual solution to resolve the situation of the victims. What happened was the forinting of Fidesz at the market rate, with you in the corridor, with Fidesz MEPs, was not fair, unwarranted in favour of the banking system. Why did anyone who took up their so-called loan at 165 forints HUF 256 forints, not at the rate of the day of admission? In general, we can conduct this debate in a civilised manner with many people in Parliament's corridor. Then the microphones come up, the cameras start spinning, and the bitter experience that the pro-government debate style is completely changing. In the Committee on Justice, I presented this civilised proposal extending the moratorium with another one, and obviously I expected that the majority in favour of the government would not vote in favour of this proposal here before Parliament. At the same time, I did not expect that he would not even praise and even be willing to hold a debate on the debate. Thus, without a vote in favour, the committee rejected this proposal by a two-thirds majority. When, by the way, I asked for a justification for it, the answer I recall was that in this committee it is not customary to ask for a justification and to receive a non-negotiable rejection. Well, now let's do another experiment. You have in front of you a copy of the proposal rejected in the same style and pathetic manner at the same committee meeting, your brother, whose aim is not to do this in respect of the minimum income required for life support in the case of those in the most difficult situation, who are disabled by 33 percent or 50 percent of the executives. We know a lot of people who are either going through an auction, who are about to evict, or that is peeking at them, but I have mentioned a lady who goes to multi-stores at night, works in another convenience store, earns a little money to try to re-establish her life. To try to take the first steps towards restoring the original state. Here comes the, respect for the exception, but executives are free teams, and two, several, are also subject to multiple bans on these minimum incomes. The point of my proposal is, therefore, that the income needed to sustain life, whether it be a small pension, income or social transfer, should not be burdened with such a thing. I would like to emphasise once again that the Justice Committee has not even been willing to argue about this. But I would like to tell you that this vote, this argument, is not about me, it is not about me, it is not about me or I will not get an answer in this debate. We have vomited this proposal with the leaders of foreign exchange credit institutions, as widely as possible, whom we can reach. Obviously, they'll be following this conversation, either live or delayed, but they'll follow. And you can be quite sure that you will still meet these people. And how no threat this is, let me tell you how you will meet them either in Parliament if you are here as guests, although the possibilities of this have been severely limited by Fidesz-KDNP, but you will surely meet these people in one form: in the polling booths during the next elections. I would like to tell you that on a foreign exchange-credited round table where we meet the victims many times, it turns out that many of them were Fidesz-KDNP or former voters. People who believed you, who believed that no one would stay on the side of the road, who did believe that there was help in Hungary, and at the last minute, let's say, at the time of the advent, it is not possible that even though an eviction moratorium has been declared, people will still be evicted. This happens at the moment, and now they can name the family legally residing there 30-40 years ago, which is then presented to a new owner who bought their property at a fraction of the price, inhabited, and, where appropriate, expels it from this property before Christmas. [[18.20]] This is why I draw everyone's attention to the fact that I do not have to account for the way this proposal is voted, but with the hundreds of thousands of people who have housing goals, children's and family planning goals, and these people deserve at least the basic chance that this government has not given them in recent years. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-10-317	Thank you, Congressman. According to the house rules, it is possible for a fellow Member to make two-minute contributions per faction. First, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Balczó, Jobbik.
u2019-12-10-318	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. It seems that we are dealing with a problem that is going through cycles, which we can only deal with, because the basic solution has not been reached. I myself attended a hearing in the European Parliament in 2015 organised by Krisztina Morvai, and a group of foreign exchange-crediters appeared there, and they told me their specific, life-like problems, which were numerically based on how much I took on, how much I paid back and how much more I owe. Members of other European countries, who were present, were shocked at these figures and could not understand how this could have developed. Of course, the real solution could indeed have been to see how much he paid back at the rate of admission and where he would be. An old associate of mine put two statements in front of me. At the same time, he took out foreign exchange-based loans and HUF-based loans at the same bank. It was possible to track exactly where the HUF-based repayment and the currency-based payment were in five years' time. The solution is, of course, to recalculate in this way. But until this is done, it must be treated, which my fellow Member has just spoken about in a given area, and the point here is how much money is left for someone. It's not about how much you pay back, it's about the bank, it's about 50 percent of a modest income that endangers living. It is not that he escapes from repayment, but that a much fairer, lower amount should be fixed, which [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] allows you to simply maintain your lifestyle at a low level, but also at a low level. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-10-319	Thank you, Congressman Balczó. I give the floor for two minutes to Antal Csárdi Group Leader, LMP.
u2019-12-10-320	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Possibly Other Politics will, of course, support the subject series. At the same time, I would have had a little argument with the author, but it's not content. When Viktor Orbán said that we wouldn't leave anyone on the side of the road, it didn't mean the people in need. That meant he wouldn't let go of the hands of his own team, the people who work with him. That's a huge difference. And unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that perhaps the EBRD pact should be terminated in the first place, in which the government openly agreed in paragraph 5 that it would not make a decision that would jeopardise the profitability of the Hungarian banking system. And I think that says everything about the attitude of the current governing parties. I really hope that this will change or that it can change, because without it, I am sure that crowds are rushing towards a social divide. I think that neither Fidesz nor the opposition have any interest in this. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-10-321	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP.
u2019-12-10-322	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course, the Hungarian Socialist Party also supports this initiative. One of Hungary's biggest problems, though, is the housing crisis. This is linked to the help of people trapped in a debt trap. But let me tell you that there have been 13 305 evictions in Hungary since the beginning of 2016. It is true that the eviction moratorium is back on the winter period as of 15 November, but everyone knows that this is not a solution. It does not solve the problem that the government will stop the eviction for that period; of course, it is good that, at least in the cold period, these families cannot be put on the streets, but the debt trap, and what the author said as a reason, is the living problem. And what is taking an initiative in how we can help these families must be supported in any way. We need to talk about it, precisely because of the solutions, because we can see that the forinting did not bring the help to the families, and even preserved a situation where he put tens of millions of HUF more debt into the borrowers' necks so that he might not be able to repay the loan he took for the rest of his life. We have to help these families. I would like one thing: we finally know how many children are in public care because of their parents being kicked out, evicted, and taken away from their homes. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-12-10-323	Thank you, Congresswoman. The next speaker on behalf of the Dialogue Group is Mr Tamás Mellar.
u2019-12-10-324	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Of course, the Dialogue also supports the inclusion of the subject series. All the more so, because I witnessed the promise made by Fidesz at the time, and I was still the research director of the century, that in three months they would solve the whole issue of foreign currency lending, and that everything would be settled. Compared to this, I do not have a broken man who tells me that a loan of HUF 7 million has been borrowed, so far eight and a half have been repaid, and there are still nine million back. And this is not an example, but a number of examples. Obviously, there is a mechanism and a link that was supposed to allow the banking system to make this kind of loan sharking happen, so that they are trying to collect multiples, but in return, the banking system accepted the bank tax without saying a word. So, somewhere here, the two things are connected, but of course, our job is to stand next to the people who, without their own fault, are in a debt trap and have lost their homes. They should be helped, so I would like to ask my fellow Members to support this series of things. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-10-325	Thank you, Congressman Tamás Mellar. I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I'll ask the author. [[Z. Carpathian on Daniel's mark:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-12-10-326	Mr President, Dear House, After the combative instant Question Time, I expected the substantive contributions of my fellow Members with Fidesz and KDNP. It became half-smile, but it wasn't a push of a button. I also wanted to ask them how there is one sensible, rational explanation for the fact that if someone took 7 or 7 million forints, they paid for it for years, evicted it from their orphaned family home, from their auction house, how the hell could the bank knock on your door, that my friend, you still owe 13 million forints. If anyone can make an economic, moral, rational argument that can explain all this, then I feel that a legitimate basis for debate can be formed. Until this happens, all the Fidesz-KDNP explanations will lose their credibility. I very much hope that the one night ahead of us will be enough for my fellow Members to consider this issue, as not only the EBRD pact is a problem, although I do not see any government in Hungary, who is very critical of the years of the Balliberal Governments. who would have kneeled down in front of the banking system and signed such a self-sacrifice pact with financial institutions. There is no such government in Central Europe, none but yours, which was so servitude towards the financial system. [[18.30]] But I would also like to say that the same financial system has produced record profits of over 600 billion in the last measurable financial year. Such an outstanding profit can also not be found throughout the region. So you really have made a pact with this system. I don't have to account for leaving these very large numbers on the side of the road. My request is for you to sleep on all of this and at least have the courage to argue on this issue. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-12-10-327	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, I declare that T/8033 on the amendment of certain property management laws and certain provisions concerning the management of assets. In the final vote on the number of votes cast, which required a qualified majority, the number of votes cast was wrongly published. The number of votes cast is correct: 134 yes, 32 no and 23 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the proposal to commemorate the uprising of the people in Timisoara and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow. MEPs from Németh Zsolt, Zsigmond Barna Pál, Pánczél Károly Fidesz, Földi László, Vejkey Imre, Nacsa Lőrinc, Aradszki András KDNP submitted H/8034. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr László Horváth, rapporteur of the committee.
u2019-12-10-328	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 5 December 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the H/8034 on commemoration of the Uprising of the People's uprising in Timisoara. A proposal for a decision. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. It adopted it unanimously by 35 votes in favour. Dear House, Perhaps the darkest dictatorship in Central Europe, the Ceaușescu regime, failed 30 years ago, a few days after Christmas. The revolution that ended four decades of communist rule began on 15 December in Timisoara, at the apartment of Reformed Pastor László Tőkés, and led to free elections on 20 May 1990. With this resolution proposal, we remember the heroes and victims of the Uprising in Timisoara, and this anniversary is also a good opportunity to put faith in the process of Timisoara, in addition to cooperation and dialogue between Hungary and Romania, reminding that minority rights that were agreed in 1989 have not yet been fully implemented. Although the proposal for a decision is not a direct objective, it is also an opportunity to appreciate our own efforts to improve Hungarian-Romanian relations in the last three decades. In addition to the Hungarians and the Romanians, the resolution proposal before us commemorates the Germans and Serbs fighting with them against the Ceaușescu regime, and supports the creation of commemorations and conferences to commemorate the people's uprising in Timisoara and the people involved. In the light of what has been said, we ask for uniform support for the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause on the part of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-10-329	Thank you, Congressman. I'll ask the author if you'd like to speak, Szilárd Németh. [[István Szilárd Németh: Thank you very much, no.]] Not now. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if someone on the government's side wants to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see a signal. No rapporteur was presented by the designated National Assembly Committee. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, MSZP.
u2019-12-10-330	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The Hungarian socialists respectfully remember the participants and victims of the Uprising in Timisoara on the 30th anniversary of the Romanian Revolution. We are proud that this historic event was triggered by the courage and freedom of a Hungarian man, László Tőkés. We are proud of the Hungarian and Romanian people who did not sit up for trying to turn them against each other. We are proud of those who stood up for each other instead of hatred against a repressive system. They acted against a system that sought to maintain its power through fear and total exploitation. László Tőkés' heroic stand deserves all respect, one of the greatest acts in the history of the Eastern European regime changes. The revolution from the uprising in Timisoara is also a warning to all future dictators. László Tőkés reminded us of where it leads when a country's leadership is spending an amazing amount of arrogance in luxury while being deprived of millions. In Timisoara, László Tőkés warned all autocrats that it would end badly if freedom was suppressed in a country, culture was crushed and people's rights were taken away. László Tőkés acted against a leader who built a stadium and installed a football team in his hometown. I hope you understand the point, my fellow Members of the House of Fidesz. [[Intercoms from the pro-government ranks.]] I trust that you presented this proposal in the spirit of László Tőkés' stand in 1989. The Hungarian Socialist Party supports us to honor the memory of the heroes of the revolution in Timisoara, who set an example of how a people should win their own freedom. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare applause from the lines of Dialogue and LMP.]]
u2019-12-10-331	Thank you, Congresswoman. The next speaker is Mr Péter Ungár, Member LMP.
u2019-12-10-332	Thank you for the floor. The LMP parliamentary group supports this proposal. I would only reflect on two sentences. One is that the author mentioned the improvement in Hungarian-Romanian relations and that we hope that this may be the basis of mutual respect. I would also like to take this opportunity to say that I think it is very important that we adopt this proposal, but it is perhaps unfortunate that, at the same time, in the Romanian Parliament, Trianon is to be celebrated as a celebration. I hope that the Hungarian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, although a representative of another Ministry, will do everything in its power to prevent the Romanian government, which is otherwise related to the Hungarian government, from doing so. I would also like to say that, although the first democratically elected prime minister in Hungary undoubtedly said that they would have liked to have made a revolution when he talked about why it was impossible to blame the culprits of the communist dictatorship, we are talking about the fact that there was a revolution and the Romanian dictator was executed and died. Even so, there was no complete Lustification and complete accountability of Communist sinners. In fact, many who were then active in the repressive apparatus and Securitate could then be the present Romanian policy makers, and this is also a problematic thing, but it could be remembered that even the revolution involving Hungarians could be commemorated if, for the 21st or 22nd time, the LMP presented its proposal on publicity, then the majority of governments that endowed themselves with anti-communist legitimacy would accept it. [[18.40]] It may be symbolic in many cases, but this symbolic report is also important to end that era in public, because, and we must note this again, the people who operated a system related to the Ceaușescu system in Hungary, died in bed, between pillows; this was a mistake, no liability occurred. This is due, among other things, to the fact that even Fidesz, KDNP, did not vote in favour of the Zétényi-Takács bill of reparation, which was a very big mistake at the time. Therefore, I would just like to say that if we continued the next legislative period in the spirit of the bill we are discussing now, then the majority of governments would accept both the Lustration and the Publicity. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-10-333	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr János Bencsik.
u2019-12-10-334	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Here, a few days before his 30th anniversary, I would like to state to the people's uprising in Timisoara that the Jobbik Group will, of course, support this resolution proposal. We are very pleased that, during the Commission's debates, we have been open to our proposal to include in this proposal, alongside the Hungarian and Romanian people, the involvement of citizens of Serb, German and other nationalities. We also had another proposal which would have aimed, as the author said here, at saying that the promise of the Temesvár process was not fully fulfilled, that process was unfortunately stuck, and that beautiful new era, which was outlined on the streets of Bucharest 30 years ago, when Hungarians, Romanians and other nationalities fought side by side against dictatorship, ultimately led to a joint work of peaceful dialogue, coexistence and indigenous nationalities, but after a few months to the events of the bloody black March. We think it would have been nice to include this at the level of reference, but even though this did not happen, perhaps there is room for us to refer to this at the end of the Commission's debates. Nevertheless, we will support this proposal for a resolution, and we are very confident that this consensus, which is now outlined at the door of Trianon's 100th anniversary, will provide the basis for the centenary of our fragmentation in Trianon, the 100-year commemoration next year at least the same, if not a consensus between major parties, joint thinking, a joint action plan and a joint commemoration. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-12-10-335	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to ask that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'm asking if one of the authors would like to speak. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP.
u2019-12-10-336	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much not only for the supporting comments now, but also at the very late hour, but in a general debate with an elevated atmosphere, we could not listen to everyone's thoughts about the uprising in Timisoara, the Hungarian-Romanian relations, the role of the Reformed pastor Tőkés László at that time and the processes that started in 1989. I think the proposal has unanimous support. In the final proposal to be put to the vote tomorrow, a better amendment has also been adopted, and a pro-democratic Coalition proposal has also been adopted, so the final proposal that we are going to vote on here tomorrow, in Parliament. What I would like to add to this resolution proposal is that this week, starting tomorrow in Timisoara, there will be a large series of celebrations aimed at remembering the events of 30 years ago. The culmination of this will be Saturday, as a system-changing roundtable will be held, attended by László Tőkés, the sparkling man of the revolution in Timisoara, Lord David Alton, the English upper house member, Janez Janša, former Slovenian Prime Minister and Łukasz Kaminski, President of the European Memory and Conscience Platform, and a large gala will be held in Timisoara, where the Prime Minister of Hungary, Viktor Orbán, will also give a speech. I think that this proposal for a resolution is not just a worthy memory of what happened 30 years ago, but an extended hand to the Romanian party, we hope to use it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-10-337	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The debate on the Commission's report on the declaration of Miklós Zrínyi as a commemorative year of 2020. The representatives of Szilárd Németh, Lajos Kósa, Károly Pánczél, Péter Ágh, János Halász, György Hubay, Zoltán Fenyvesi, Barna Pál Zsigmond, Fidesz and Lőrinc Nacsa, László Földi, András Aradszki, István Simicskó and Imre Vejkey, KDNP submitted H/8035. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask who among the authors would like to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if someone from the government wants to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. No rapporteur was presented by the designated National Assembly Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, MSZP.
u2019-12-10-338	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Miklós Zrínyi is one of the outstanding figures of Hungarian history, he was a genius of his time, because he left a mark in our history and culture as a poet, politician and general. He left us outstanding works such as the threat to the Island or the cure against the Turkish aphium. This, therefore, certainly justifies us remembering and stressing it in a worthy manner, because the memory of Miklós Zrínyi demands dignity, and this is the responsibility of future celebrations. Dignity means that no one can use the memory of Zrínyi, his country defender's success, to create false conclusions, either to incite an actual political hatred or to draw false conclusions from false parallels. Therefore, out of respect for Miklós Zrínyi, we ask the pro-government representatives not to pollute the dignity of the commemorative year with petty and lying parallels, no matter how tempting it may seem, the struggle against the Turkish occupation almost 400 years ago and the current immigration situation. Let's send a message to today's man about the entire life course of Miklós Zrínyi, of Croatian origin! Let this be a message to today's politicians that patriotism does not depend on who came from, but on how much he loves this country and what he does for it! The commemorative year named after Miklós Zrínyi, born 400 years ago, can give us a good opportunity to deliver this message to the Hungarian people, and of course we also hope that no one will use the Memorial Year for the financial growth of their own relatives or business. The Hungarian Socialist Party supports this dignified and steal-free Zriny Memorial Year. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-10-339	Thank you, Congresswoman. Lőrinc Nacsa's speech, Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2019-12-10-340	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As we have indicated in this debate, KDNP supports this important commemorative year and I would like to point out to Mrs Zita Gurmai that you were the only person who used the debates for active policy purposes, both on the previous agenda and now. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-10-341	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I'm going to ask if one of the authors would like to comment. (No one's reporting.) I don't see any contact. [[18.50]] Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Next up is the 2016 XXX on defence and security procurement. Discussion of the Commission's report on the proposed amendment to the Act. The government referral is T/8031. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. I'll ask you, Honourable Parliament, the nationalist, if you'd like to speak. [[István Szilárd Németh: No, thank you.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Defence and Police Committee. It is now up to the Members to take part in their speeches within the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see a signal. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. [[István Szilárd Németh: No, thank you. Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] They both say no. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to public procurement and the discussion of the summary amendment are now in order. The government referral is T/8039. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Törő, rapporteur of the committee.
u2019-12-10-342	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 5 December 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/8039 amending certain laws relating to public procurement. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 25 votes in favour, 4 votes against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The main aim of the bill is to simplify and speed up, to further reduce administrative burdens, to increase regularity through rules to prevent financial correction of EU funds and to reduce risks, and to strengthen the guarantee of responsible public spending. The current legislative amendment will allow problems to be dealt with even further in the future through electronic public procurement. Accordingly, the plans for the coming years include the implementation of the ECR functions, which can provide active support for the procurement process, which could represent a real and substantial administrative burden reduction, as they partially remove administrative burdens from the contracting authorities' shoulders. The bill before us contains forward-looking provisions on the duration of public procurement and public procurement procedures, and strengthens the guarantees of responsible public spending, which, in my view, are the efforts to be supported by everyone, and I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the bill tabled. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-10-343	Thank you, Congressman Gábor Törő. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[Dr. Pál Völner: No.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to the Members to take part in their speeches within the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. I'm asking who wants to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[Dr. Pál Völner: No.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws on the subject of judicial matters and the discussion of the summary amendment follow. The government referral is T/8023. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I therefore give the floor to the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Dávid Héjj.
u2019-12-10-344	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 5 December 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/8023 amending certain laws on judicial matters. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 24 votes in favour, 1 against and 7 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The proposal on the House's table seeks to amend a number of laws on the subject of justice, in such a way that the experience of the application of the law is incorporated into the legislative text, thus promoting their effectiveness. The proposal aims to make the daily activities of notaries more smooth by increasing its intention to safeguard and strengthen public confidence in notaries through its tightening and clarification provisions. As an example, in the future, the interruption of the notary service will not extend the period for the examination of the office, and the period of recess will be included in the examination to be carried out after one year from the entry into office of the notary or after further periods of four years. The tightening provisions of the proposal will apply to a notary person suspected of committing a criminal offence. Dear House, It appears in the legislative text as a novum, thanks to the proposal that the holding of the current succession hearing as a general rule will be the rule governing the future, with the conclusion that the law lists as a cogens provision all cases where a mandatory hearing should be held by the notary. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal before us aims to amend, in addition to the above-mentioned laws, the laws on judicial enforcement, money laundering and terrorist financing, trust trustees and judicial experts, as well as the civil law, in order to ensure the coherence of the legal system. I would ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of the adoption of this proposal. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-10-345	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[Dr. Pál Völner: No.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I'll ask who wants to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I ask the author that he wanted to take the opportunity to speak. [[Dr. Pál Völner: No.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain health legislation for harmonisation purposes and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/7847. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate, so I will give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héjj, the rapporteur of the committee.
u2019-12-10-346	Thank you again for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 5 December 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/7847 amending certain laws on health matters for harmonisation purposes. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it unanimously by 29 votes pursuant to Article 29 of the Rules of Procedure. [[19.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, Among the main objectives of the proposal before us, we should mention the new tasks relating to the operation of the Electronic Health Service Space or, in short, the creation of legal conditions for these new functions. Another important objective of the bill is the implementation of legal harmonisation obligations arising from membership of the European Union. According to the bill, it will be possible for relatives to replace those who are disabled or elderly in their movements with the recipe in the future. To this end, the legislative amendment allows the digital self-determination module of the ESZT to contain not only data management provisions, but also the possibility of recording and managing power of attorney and representation rights on the digital self-determination interface in the future. The system also allows for an efficient and immediate exchange of data, with the main objectives of achieving the exchange of patient data and documentation and facilitating the transfer of data between different healthcare providers and the optimal use of resources. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the above, we can all agree that the core services of the ESP can make health processes faster and more transparent in the future, so I ask you to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-10-347	Thank you, Congressman David Hey. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Welfare Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I ask who wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws in the context of the development of health services and the reduction of the activities of medical service providers of uncertain quality and unclear backgrounds, together with the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal, follow up. Government referral T/8018. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Horváth, rapporteur of the committee.
u2019-12-10-348	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 5 December 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/8018 on the modification of certain laws in relation to the development of health services and the reduction of the activities of service providers of uncertain quality and unclear background. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 27 votes in favour, with 2 abstentions. Dear House, One of the main objectives of the bill is to improve the pharmacy service, to ensure that pharmacies operate in a reliable and accessible manner. In addition to the safe and economic supply of medicinal products, the bill also covers the provision of medical aid and general rules on the distribution of medicinal products. Another reason for adopting the bill is that we want to address abuses in the health services market. The Hungarian Medical Chamber drew attention to the increase in the number of persons who provide physical and psychological health-related services, who call themselves, so to speak, the honorary teacher-doctors, or who use an alternative term like this. We are committed to ensuring that the Hungarian population can benefit from a good and reliable healthcare service and not become victims of fraud. In order to achieve this goal, it is necessary to adopt laws to stop and liquidate the operation of so-called "apostrophe doctors" and to strictise the provisions in force. Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, with this proposal, we can protect people from fraud and abuse who suffer from illness and who need some kind of help, and we will help people to get access to medicines in as many places as possible. This goal, I think, is eligible for all of us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-10-349	Thank you, Congressman László Horváth. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Welfare Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I'm asking who wants to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Welfare Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I'm asking who wants to comment. (No one's reporting.) I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I would like to ask the author if he would like to take the opportunity to speak. (To be indicated:) It says no. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. It follows from the 1996 LXXXI on corporate tax and dividend tax. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. T/8040 submitted by Máté Kocsis, Erik Bánki, Péter Ovádi, Fidesz MEPs and MEP Lőrinc Nacsa KDNP. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, which will be presented by Gábor Törő.
u2019-12-10-350	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 5 December 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the 1996 LXXXI on corporation tax and dividend tax. T/8040. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 23 votes in favour, 5 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, The bill allows associations, associations and foundations representing visual team sports to invest and develop for those who have not been able to produce the necessary self-esteem for their development under the laws of the past. The bill provides for the possibility for national sports professional associations to implement the development of sports facilities in accordance with sport strategies in the framework of an aid intensity of 100%, and states that the investment in tangible assets must be put into operation by the end of the sixth aid period from the year following the first aid period for the investment in tangible assets. With the adoption of the bill before us, there is scope for further improvements, which, in my view, should be supported by everyone, and I therefore call on my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-10-351	Thank you, Congressman Gábor Törő. Dear Parliament, I'd like to ask you if one of the authors would like to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see a signal. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if someone from the government wants to comment. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to the secretary of state.
u2019-12-10-352	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/8040. The draft law, as stated in the general debate, sets out the rules for ensuring the necessary self-force and self-employment beyond visual team support for sport development programmes approved under the terms of asset investment and renovation, and intends to modify the time limit for the installation of multi-stage investments. We are well aware that the development of sports facilities is of the utmost importance, which helps and serves the entire sport sector, such as competition and training, which not only assists all sports within six visual team sports, but indirectly. [[19.10]] It is important to note that the system of support for visual team sports is unique in Europe, as it provides opportunities for people living in sport that offer unique opportunities and values in the long term. It is important to stress that sport has a positive impact on almost all sectors, so its development makes a significant contribution to a healthy, happy and successful future for our society, including our children. And it is very important to stress that, with the help of the sports Tao system, the tracks, lockers and swimming pools of small associations are being renewed, and these facilities are being used by more and more people in competition and supply training as well as in recreational sports. And it is worth recalling the data that the number of certified athletes in the six visual team sports has increased from 213 thousand to 450 thousand since 2010, so it has more than doubled. And I hereby confirm that one of the main results of the visual team sports support system is how much more people have been playing sports in Hungary since its regular introduction, as the number is a good justification for the positive effects of this, which we can also see successfully in domestic training and international performance in terms of sports. This is, of course, due to the excellent coaches, professionals, training systems and the long-term sports development programmes that can be planned. By 2019, the number of new and renewed sports facilities exceeds 2500, which also shows how much behind was the situation of the sport infrastructure and the need and need for new and renovated sports facilities. And I stress that we are talking about sports fields, swimming pools, gymnasiums, ice rinks, dressing rooms or sports halls that cover almost all areas of sport and serve their interests. I would also like to highlight the objectives of sport policy that we have set out for us, to which the Tao system makes a significant contribution. This also required adequate sports facilities, as it was cultured, as part of the 21st century. In the 20th century, our children, young people and even the adult age group can play sports, as we all remember the conditions we received and our athletes and the sports-loving audience before 2010. During the past period, we have also been able to successfully increase the number of athletes, the number of athletes of replacement age, and the number of regular athletes. And the last thing we need to do is organise international sporting events in these facilities. I would like to address another very important priority area, the monitoring of the Tao visual team support system. The public interest data on the use of state and visual team sports subsidies are the info law and the relevant 107/2011. According to Government Decree No. 13, the websites of civil society organisations, in addition to which the Secretary-General for Sport and the specialised sports associations continuously monitor the legality and professional basis of the use of grants. Finally, in view of what has been said, the Government supports the legislative committee's summarised amendment, which brings consistency to the T/8040 on the amendment of the Tao Law. Between bill No 1 and our obligations under EU law, by clearly stating that the use of facilities to be developed with aid intensity of 100% cannot be professional sports organisations active in visual team sport. The government also agrees that the value of HUF 300 million should be abolished for the waiver of the part, as this will help in particular the implementation of investments by smaller sport organisations, mainly in rural areas, with a lower ceiling. Therefore, in view of what has been said, I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill in voting. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-10-353	Thank you, Secretary of State, Tünde Szabó. I would like to inform the Parliament that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. Please indicate your intention to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see a signal. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'm going to ask if one of the authors would like to comment. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc.
u2019-12-10-354	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Not to abuse your patience and not to repeat what has been said so far, because I think that if we removed the actual political references, we could have a very sensible general debate about this law, in which we could say a lot of useful things from both the opposition and the government side. I would just like to say that between the submission of the law and the adoption of the law tomorrow, as a result of the conciliation process that has taken place, I can report on a result that will abolish the HUF 300 million threshold, which has already been referred to by the Secretary of State, which was also a opposition request and proposal here in the general debate and later in the Commission section. I therefore ask you that, since we have adopted this otherwise good and forward-looking proposal, I ask you to support this bill tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-10-355	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. It is now time to discuss the Commission's reports on the beneficiaries of social security and on the coverage of these benefits and the summary amendment proposal. Government referral T/8021. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Törő, rapporteur of the committee.
u2019-12-10-356	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that T/8021 was discussed by the Legislative Committee at its meeting on 5 December 2019. A bill on the benefits of social security and the coverage of those benefits. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. 28 votes in favour, 3 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, The bill before us contains significant changes compared to the contribution regulation currently in force. As a result of the bill, a legislation on social security benefits and private pensions and the coverage of these services will be re-regulated in 1997 by LXXX. Act LXXX of 1997 on social security benefits and private pensions, and on the coverage of these services. 195/1997 on the implementation of Act No. Under Government Decree No. 1. This is necessary in order to simplify the fragmented regulation in a uniform set of rules at the statutory level, thus creating a system for the regulation of contributions on a uniform basis. According to the bill, instead of the four contributions so far, a single contribution should be paid to employees, i.e. standardising income contributions. We will exempt pensioners from the obligation to pay contributions; we will make it more favourable for children to benefit from the allowance; we will clarify the rules on health care contributions and we will propose amendments to make the system of contributions more fair; we will exclude stowaways from the system. Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, the bill contains measures which in several cases reduce the burden of contributions; reduce administration and facilitate the day-to-day enforcement of the relevant market players and public bodies by means of simpler rules. In view of all this, I ask that you support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[19.20]]
u2019-12-10-357	Thank you, Congressman Gábor Törő. Dear Parliament, I'm going to ask if one of the authors would like to speak. [[Izer Norbert: At the end.]] At the end. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Welfare Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I'll ask who wants to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed, and I am now giving the floor to State Secretary Norbert Izer, who wishes to speak on behalf of the rapporteurs.
u2019-12-10-358	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, On 12 November 2019 the Government submitted to the National Assembly the T/8021 on social security benefits and the coverage of these benefits. Bill No. 1. During the debate, five motions were tabled, which were not eligible for the following reasons. There was a motion by its representatives to base its proposal for an amendment on error, which considered that the establishment of an insurance relationship depends on the place of residence, even though the establishment of an insurance relationship has so far not and does not depend on the place of residence under the bill. We were also able to meet with a motion for self-representation which, in the absence of a contribution, would have established the right to supply. This is not eligible either, given that entitlement to benefits can be based on a combined insurance relationship and payment of contributions. Finally, the individual amendments aimed at amending the Social Insurance Pensions Act should be mentioned. In relation to these, I note that the present bill does not aim to reform or modify the pension system, nor does it aim to redefine pension-like benefits. The bill only amends the provisions of the pension rules that are directly related to the amendments contained in the bill. Therefore, proposals going beyond codification determination are not eligible. In addition to the above, the Legislative Committee has also proposed that, in the case of persons liable for the payment of health care contributions, but with backlogs, the Taj number should not become invalid, as any errors may result in the loss of entitlement to healthcare. I trust that, at the committee meeting, Mr President, you have also received a reassuring reply to your question, but please allow me to respond briefly to this question again. I stress that the bill does not aim at losing entitlement to health care, it merely provides that health care is not available free of charge in the case of three months' debts to the social security risk community. Once the backlog has been settled, health care can be used free of charge again, so that no one is deprived of care, no legal certainty, and no breach of the social security principle. I would like to point out that the bill sets out a new rule for failing health care contributions, not social security contributions. In other words, insured persons, such as those in employment, individual and social entrepreneurs, are not affected by the changes. On the basis of the bill, the number of persons entitled to health care does not change; it only provides for sanctions for the payment of the contribution, which does not entail any loss of rights, but at the same time facilitates the elimination of non-paying members of the social security risk community, which is a legitimate expectation of the contributors and is in the social interest of all of us. Dear House, The proposals submitted by the Welfare Committee and the Legislative Committee under reference number 2 contain technical amendments and do not represent any substantive changes to the legislative proposal already submitted. Some of them have become necessary because, in the meantime, this House has already adopted legislative proposals which affect the existing social security rules or are currently negotiating legislative proposals that would also amend the legislation in force. In order to ensure that the amendments initiated by these legislative proposals are properly reflected in the new TBJ, it is necessary to support the amendments made by the Committee on Welfare and the Legislative Committee. In light of what has been said, I call for the support of honourable Members for the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-10-359	Thank you, Secretary of State Izer Norbert. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the revision of certain legislation relating to the financial intermediary system and to public finances and economic stability, together with the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal, follow up. The government referral is T/7842. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, so I give the floor to Mr Gábor Törő, rapporteur of the committee.
u2019-12-10-360	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that LIII of 2017 on the prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing was discussed by the Legislative Committee at its meeting on 5 December 2019. Act T/8028 amending certain related laws Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 29 votes in favour, with 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament,
u2019-12-10-361	Sorry, dear Member, I think you are reading another Commission report. Let's check it out. [[Gábor Törő: The 8028.]] T/7842. This is a bill, honourable Member. [[Zoltán Balczó: Whatever. Gábor Törő: Excuse me, Mr. President, I'll start over.]] Thank you. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-12-10-362	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 5 December 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/7842 amending certain legislation concerning financial intermediaries and public finances and economic stability. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 24 votes in favour, with 7 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The bill before you includes, inter alia, legislative provisions on the separation of the National Deposit Insurance Fund and the Investor Protection Fund, amendments to the Brochure Regulation, and further clarifications in order to comply with sectoral EU legislation such as the mortgage credit directives and the Regulation on CSDs. The proposal also includes amendments to the Public Finance Act and the Act on Hungary's economic stability. The aim of the bill is to ensure that financing from the capital market is caught up in the majority of EU Member States, including in Hungary, with a system based on bank financing, that businesses can obtain capital from more diversified sources anywhere in the European Union. It is also important to provide investors with additional opportunities to make use of their money to increase growth and job creation. Dear House, The bill before you contains a number of forward-looking provisions both in terms of the financial intermediary system and in order to further increase economic stability, which is why I call on my fellow Members to support the proposal that has been tabled. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-10-363	Thank you, Congressman. I'm going to ask if there's someone on the part of the authors who'd like to speak. [[Gábor Gion: Later.]] Later. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I'll ask if someone would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application, so the debate is closed. I am now giving the floor to Mr Gábor Gion, Secretary of State, who has indicated that he wishes to speak in the closet.
u2019-12-10-364	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, I would like to say a few words on the main amendments to the bill regarding the conclusion of the parliamentary debate. A large part of the amendments contain clarification and codification provisions to facilitate interpretation in order to ensure the internal consistency of the bill. [[19.30]] Since the legislative proposal is a major part of the provisions to comply with our EU legal harmonisation obligation, amendments to clarify the technical use of terms also apply largely to this area. Some amendments to the content have also been initiated, and I would like to highlight two of them. One: in the autumn of last year, legislative amendments to the financial intermediary system included the adaptation of the Capital Markets Act to the EU Regulation in the context of the creation of an EU framework for securitisation and the inclusion of certain elements of the securitisation process in domestic legislation. In addition to these rules and at the same time making the securitisation process smoother, the proposal to allow a specific transfer method for the transfer of the underlying holdings of claims is proposed. The proposal, which already has a placard of the Credit Institutions Act 17/A. In its Article 3, a large number of claims are to be transferred together with all its collateral. I would like to stress that the transfer of claims by this method can be carried out in packages subject to supervision authorisation. A further amending proposal sets out, in line with the relevant EU Directive, how and when the supervisory authority and the resolution authority are required to provide information on the application of certain exceptional measures and the implementation of recovery plans in order to ensure that these exceptional measures are effective in all respects. Dear Parliament, I would like to thank you for your attention and ask for the adoption of the bill, together with the amendments. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-10-365	Thank you, Secretary Gábor Gion. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Next up is the 2017 LIII on prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. The Commission's reports on the amendment of law and certain related laws and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/8028. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, in the debate, Mr Gábor Törő, rapporteur of the Committee, presented the position of the Legislative Committee.
u2019-12-10-366	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. On the previous agenda, I was convinced that Mr. President was watching.
u2019-12-10-367	And we've made sure it's different. Here.
u2019-12-10-368	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that LIII of 2017 on the prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing was discussed by the Legislative Committee at its meeting on 5 December 2019. Act T/8028 amending certain related laws Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 29 votes in favour, with 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The government has always been committed to combating money laundering and terrorist financing and has consistently sought to whiten the economy. The proposed legislation is intended to achieve these objectives. On the one hand, the European Parliament and the Council 2015/849 are being transposed into the Hungarian legal system. On the other hand, following a proposal from the European Commission, the European Parliament and the Council have adopted a new directive 2018/843. It will also form part of the Hungarian legal system to prevent the use of financial systems for money laundering or terrorist financing. Dear House, I believe that the creation of a new law will make a major contribution to the protection of the financial system, to the clean-up of proceeds from crime and to attempts to support terrorist organisations in financial support, which is why I would ask my fellow Members to support the motion. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-10-369	Thank you, Congressman Gábor Törő. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author whether he wishes to speak now or later. [[For signal:]] He'll tell you later. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. Interventions by Members shall take place within the time limits on which the agenda is to be held. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any sign on the monitor. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr Gábor Gion, State Secretary.
u2019-12-10-370	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, First of all, I would like to thank you for your constructive cooperation during the parliamentary hearing of the bill. The bill before the final vote was presented by the government in order to further strengthen the domestic anti-money laundering and terrorist financing regime and to ensure full compliance with EU and international standards. The amendments submitted are aimed to a large extent at ensuring timely transposition into domestic law of the amendments introduced in the EU's 5th anti-money laundering directive. At the same time, the bill also introduces clarification laws that are necessary for the full application of the EU's earlier anti-money laundering directive 4. When transposing EU provisions, practical solutions from other Member States were taken into account in order to ensure that the adoption of European rules does not result in more stringent application of the law than is necessary and more stringent than our competitors, so that the transposition of the directive also took into account the interests of customers and the preservation of the competitiveness of the domestic financial and other sectors concerned. In addition to fulfilling EU standards, the proposal takes into account our anti-money laundering law, Pmt. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. These changes are expected to simplify the management of low-risk transactions affecting the population's mass, while allowing authorities and service providers to focus their resources specifically on higher money laundering risk transactions. Dear Parliament, No amendments were tabled to the bill during the general debate. During the detailed discussion, the Parliament's Economic Committee and the Legislative Committee made a number of amendments, mostly of codification, of a legal nature and of a conflict-of-law nature. These, as well as the substantive proposals that include a substantive amendment, were supported by the government. I would like to highlight some of the major content amendments. One of them is to provide service providers with sufficient preparation time by putting into effect dynamic customer due diligence measures only on 1 October 2020. In cases where low-risk, so only simplified customer due diligence measures are required, a business relationship may be established without the client's personal presence by sending the necessary data, document copies and declarations by post. In addition to the tasks of the head of the financial service provider responsible for anti-money laundering tasks, the bank security function is closely linked and typically combined in the sector. Dear House, By adopting the bill, Hungary will further improve the effectiveness, transparency and functionality of the domestic anti-money laundering and terrorist financing system. In addition, it fulfils its EU and international obligations to demonstrate Hungary's unbroken commitment to combating money laundering and terrorist financing. Ensuring modern regulation and effective implementation will strengthen the protection of the domestic financial system and a fair majority society, as well as our international cooperation against money laundering and strengthening international action against terrorist financing. I would therefore ask you to support and accept the bill and the amendments tabled to the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[19.40]]
u2019-12-10-371	Thank you, Secretary Gábor Gion. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2014 LXXVI on scientific research, development and innovation follows. Discussion of the report before the final vote and the proposal for amendment before the final vote on the amendment of law and certain related legislative provisions. The government referral is T/8032. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee, so I give the floor to Mr László Horváth, rapporteur of the committee.
u2019-12-10-372	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 5 December 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2014 LXXVI on scientific research, development and innovation. Act T/8032 amending Act T/8032 and certain related legislative provisions Bill No. 1. The amendment before the final vote and the report before the final vote were adopted by 24 votes in favour and 5 votes in favour and 1 abstention. The primary objective of the proposal before us is to achieve a more efficient, more planned and more strategic use of the available R &amp; D and innovation resources. The proposal clarifies the responsibilities and competences of the public actors that develop R &amp; D and innovation policies and their cooperation with regard to the restructuring of the governance and funding structure of the RDI system. The proposal simplifies and streamlines the rules on the evaluation of RDI applications financed under the NFKI Fund and clarifies the rules applied in the context of RDI projects and grants. A further important element of the amendment is the fine-tuning of the R &amp; D certification process carried out by the National Intellectual Property Office. The bill complements the rules on professional activities carried out by the National Intellectual Property Office, so that the expertise of the National Intellectual Property Office can be used not only by the tax authority, the court or other authority, but also by research and development firms. The bill contains provisions for compliance with GDPR and technical amendments to the functioning of the Eötvös Loránd Research Network have also been formulated. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment before the final vote is necessary because of a technical and precise intention. In view of what has been said, please support the proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-10-373	Thank you, Congressman László Horváth. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I'll ask who wants to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed, and the decisions will take place on tomorrow's sitting. Dear Parliament, Coming up on the National Cultural Council [[Gergely Arató and Antal Csárdi, applause: Long live!]] a joint debate on cultural strategic institutions and amendments to certain cultural-related laws in an exceptional procedure. The government referral is T/8441. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, In the debate, I give the floor first to Mr Péter Fekete, State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources, the author of the bill. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-12-10-374	Mr President, Dear Parliament, During the Advent period, what else could I start my expo with than to remember a 1986 premiere at the National Theatre, where Imre Sinkovics starring Imre presented the Advent on Hargitán. But it's just the surface. The real value measure that needs to be shown, unfolded, is the many underlying, more general human fates and thoughts that are dense in the drama. Bake with amazing talent, it will save our ever-used vocabulary, our loss of words in the present. It is especially important to say this when not only the spoken language, but also our stage language, is degenerate. It's crude, harsh. Is this modernity? Calling things by name, like in the pub? Today, parlagism is becoming more and more not a celestial image, but a raging parlagism on boards. In the drama of András Bütő, there are many words of anger, many forms of curses, but none is dirty, none is dirty. The power of his poetic-dramatic writing art, he has the imagination to express the bitterness of his heroes in extreme tempers in his own height. This is today's blaring, twitching, neurotic, soulless consumer society with discoes, hamburgers, drugged, alcoholic mass hysteria, like seaweed pulls me down to the swamps of pointless, cheap life. What kind of soul can dwell in such a faded body? Hungary needs strong, healthy Christian youth and families both in body and soul. If we want to maintain it, if we want to survive in the centuries to come, in the millennia. Because we're finally in the world? To be somewhere at home. This is somewhere under our feet. Hungary, on the other hand. Ladies and Gentlemen, Imre Sinkovics wrote this in 1986, and his thoughts are valid for my thoughts now, this year, at the time of the submission of this law. Hungary takes responsibility for the preservation of national culture and the strengthening of national identity, in which it ensures equal access to and preservation of national culture and cultural values for the future generation, the basic cultural supply for Hungarian citizens, the intellectual and community development of the nation through cultural public services, and supports the creation of new outstanding cultural values that contribute through innovation to enhancing the performance of creative industry and the national economy. At the same time, the government has put cultural policy objectives into a national strategic dimension, which can be achieved primarily through the corresponding cultural institutional system. Our aim is to develop an institutional system and funding that fits in with the 21st century. By the end of the second decade of the century, it was reorganized to cultural processes and creative needs. In order to strengthen national culture, the National Assembly determines the scope of cultural strategic institutions and establishes the National Cultural Council. Ladies and Gentlemen, You have found a list of cultural strategic institutions in the document, please allow me not to read them. But let's talk about what these institutions will do, why they are highlighted. After all, it is institutions that have already played a strategic role that has had an impact on the sectors of industry. It is clear that in different branches of the arts, in different branches of culture, we have defined the peak institutions: National Theatre, Opera House, Hungarian National Museum, Széchenyi Museum These institutions ensure the strengthening of national identity, the cultural education of future generations. They will build a network, capable of showing, by example, the way to the institutions in their sector. They are capable of maintaining professional relations with the institutions of other cultural sectors. And perhaps one of the most important achievements is that we have made them able to perform both methodological and scientific tasks and to carry out theoretical research. [[19.50]] For the cultural sector, these institutions will also be authorised to allocate professional tasks and to submit applications. They will be in contact with the Hungarian community, communities and international professional organisations across the border. Ladies and Gentlemen, Among the nation's cultural strategic institutions, perhaps they saw one of the strongest winds, perhaps most of the institutions appeared in the field of performing art, Hungary has an incredibly strong institutional system in the field of performing art. I would like to highlight two important, strong, stable bastions, which we can be proud of and which define our artistic life as performers. One of them, which means stability, stability and tradition, is our stone theatre structure; there is no other country in Europe that would have such a highly built, traditional and so well-functioning network of repertoire theatres with its own company. Our other very important pillar, which means renewal, search for a way, brings freshness, is the independent, experimental, alternative theater world, the maintenance, operation and assistance of which is our basic safekeeping task. Ladies and Gentlemen, The preparation of this law dates back to December 3, 2015, when five theatre directors were assembled at the Opera House, these five theatre directors: Attila Vidnyánszky, CEO of the National Theatre, Szilveszter Ókovács, Director General of the Hungarian State Opera House [[Gergely Harvestó: What a team!]] , Tamás Jordán, director of the Weöres Sándor Theatre in Szombathely, Pál Oberfrank, director of the Petőfi Theatre in Veszprém and then director of the Metropolitan Circus, Péter Fekete. These five theatres stated that the cultural lake will be used free of charge from now on. As a result, these theatres have been extremely difficult, since many have said that cultural taos cannot be obtained without commission. And that was the point, ladies and gentlemen, when a sort of purification and purification process of the theatrical and performing arts sphere began, this was the first point when the analyses started, the discussions about the need to transform the funding of the performing arts system. The next point was the year 2018 when a series of professional conferences and discussions took place in order to ensure that once we led out the lecturer-art lake, what should be in its place, and there were five points in which everyone agreed. Everyone, all the theatre professionals, all the performers and artists, said that they should not reduce the amount of resources coming into the sector, that the transformation should not jeopardise the performance of the bodies performing public tasks. They said to continue to provide additional funding for independent performers. They said that this should be a controllable system and that all public funds should be translated into the service of the common good, to carry out cultural public tasks and to be excluded from any abuse. Ladies and Gentlemen, By the end of 2018, November, the amendment made it possible for the amount of resources that had previously been unable to go into the budget in the form of taxes to be transferred into the budget, and for the government to make good on its promise, this resource, as it is, to be provided to performers. During the 19th year, a new distribution was started, and all institutions that did real work in connection with this new distribution, creating all values, alternative, independent, local government reserve or state reserve, managed to obtain less than previously, but much more resources. From this we can see that more and more resources are being made towards performing art. We have to stop here for a moment, because I asked my colleagues to give us an international outlook. In the area of cultural aid, with the GDP of 1.7 percent in the European Union, we are absolutely top riders, the average is less than 1.5 percent, so what Hungary provides is extremely high in the direction of performing art, on the one hand, and it grows year after year. The 28 European countries spend 0.9 percent of their average expenditure on cultural services, a figure of 2.1 percent in Hungary. I checked that our cultural expenditure has increased by two and a half times since 2010, with HUF 453 billion available this year, and next year it will increase to HUF 578 billion. So many times we talk about the independent sphere, please allow me to say that about 5 billion forints of public money, support is being made to the independent sphere, of which we only spend 2 billion forints of public money on the theatre area. We have an incredible theater network with 19 country stone theatres, 13 puppet theatres, no other country where if we draw 100 kilometers of circles on the map, these 100 kilometers of circles will all reach at least one theater. In total, we have more than 400 registered performing art organizations. Ladies and Gentlemen, In the light of these data, we need to see, know that we have responsibility for the form and distribution of these public funds. And then, when the new Taót replacement system increased the amount of money actually received from the theatres, we saw that the scissors between the funding of the municipalities, the financing of their own institutions and the financing of the state finance are increasingly opening up, and more and more public money is being invested in the theatres that were originally run by local governments and run by local governments. In fact, a joint operation is established, since the state finances the local government institutions, only this was not any kind of legislation, placed within any legal framework. Please allow me to give you two more details. I stated that the metropolitan theatres, which will receive this year's additional support, will receive the third instalment of their additional support resources, as promised, this year about half a billion forints more tao support than they had previously received from Tao. Rural theatres receive about 30 percent more resources than they had previously been able to recover from the Tao. So the big wave, the great wave of indignation that started at the beginning of the year in connection with the launch of the Tao, with the exception of all the 400 institutions, perhaps the Atrium Theatre, which we will have to discuss separately [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] He was able to close with a positive closing, dozens of thank-you letters. Ladies and Gentlemen, According to the new system, the principle of maintenance responsibility is what we would like to highlight, as we will be talking about three types of reservations in the future: one of which is the theatres with state reservations, which will be financed by the central budget; the municipality must assume its maintenance responsibility for institutions with local government reservations; and if he considers that he wants to operate a bigger, better, better, more completed than his option can handle, then he can apply to the state and conclude a contract for joint financing and joint operation. Please allow us to stop here for a moment, because in recent years, in relation to the Tao, the municipalities have driven their theatres into a display volume, a squirrel wheel that has been at the expense of quality. Ladies and gentlemen, we must say... [[Gergely Arató: The Secretary of State will tell you what quality is! The Secretary of State wants to tell you. Peter Ungár intervenes.]] We have to say that a theatre with a municipal reservation should not have to hold a 14-15-16 presentation in order to collect more taos. The municipality can decide how many demonstrations it needs to serve its residential community, its environment, and if the municipality considers that it is dreaming bigger, it can sit down with the state, and if the state is significantly involved in the public service of the theatre, then the joint operation can be agreed there. Ladies and Gentlemen, These individual agreements are unique because they guarantee artistic freedom. Each theater has its own [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Its situation is different, and we will therefore agree individually with each candidate theatre. (The President rang.)
u2019-12-10-375	Secretary of State, you have 15 minutes.
u2019-12-10-376	Yes, sir. [[Zoltán Balczó: Thank you! Deficit in the lines of LMP and MSZP.]]
u2019-12-10-377	You'll have another chance to tell me.
u2019-12-10-378	Thank you very much. Ladies and Gentlemen, I respectfully ask that you accept the government's proposal. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Antal Csárdi applauds.]] [[20.00]]
u2019-12-10-379	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Peter Fekete. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Törő, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee.
u2019-12-10-380	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 9 December 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/8441 on the National Cultural Council, the cultural strategic institutions and the amendment of certain cultural laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 23 votes in favour, 11 votes against and zero abstentions. Dear Parliament, The aim of the proposal before us is to provide the resources necessary for the functioning of the performing arts organisations with a view to avoiding disproportion and regulating public funding in a transparent, clear and just way. In recent years, it has also been justified to clarify the liability conditions in certain public and non-financial abuses in performing arts organisations operating from public or municipal sources. The regulation is also justified by the government's intention to increase the amount of budgetary resources to be spent on culture and performing art. Dear House, Given the horizontal nature of culture, it is considered necessary to coordinate the tasks of each cultural sector. In view of this, the proposal on the House's table lays down rules for the establishment and functioning of a forum for cooperation for national culture. The proposal aims to create details of the maintenance of institutions for national culture and the possibility of joint operation. National culture is a key element of national cooperation, and therefore the active participation of all members of the nation is expected in the creation, preservation and mediation of values, irrespective of the sector. In view of what has been said, it can be said that the protection of actions for the survival, well-being and growth of the nation is a fundamental requirement for activities falling within the scope of the law. The proposal should therefore be supported for the reasons set out. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-12-10-381	Thank you very much, Mr Gábor Törő, who presented the majority opinion. I would now ask Mr Gergely Arató to present the minority opinion. You have seven minutes.
u2019-12-10-382	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, the opposition members of the Legislative Committee were not able to share either the unbroken optimism of the Secretary of State or the unbroken loyalty of the pro-government representatives to the government, because, in essence, we had very significant doubts about all the essential issues of the bill, which we tried to bring to Parliament in the form of amendments, but the Legislative Committee did not create a way for us to do so. Let me list these excuses very briefly. The first question is what Mr Secretary of State was talking about right here at the end, when he said that, of course, it is possible for municipalities to hold theatres and operate theatres, only if they want state aid for this, then they will accept the terms of the government. Our fellow members of the Government spoke of co-operation, and we must add that, on the basis of the text of the bill, this is more of a coercion than a co-operation. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Because this is about the fact that in the case of theatres, the government gives the municipal theatres the money and resources they need to survive, it gives them the opportunity to survive if they enter into an agreement with the government, more precisely: not the theatres, but the maintenance authorities, and in a completely obvious way, or at least according to the opposition members of the Legislative Committee, this kind of situation is not a symmetrical settlement situation, it is an extortion position for the government. The funding system for the theatre has been established in Hungary, and this could be otherwise, that none of the theatres with municipal reservations would be operational without government support. This is even more so in the situation where you have turned Tao support into government support. The Secretary of State has now made a victory report on this, but what really happened is that the system based on the taxpayer's offer has been replaced by a system based on government favor in the financing of culture. Thus, one of the opposition members' objections was that, unfortunately, although the wording became more complicated, the point has not changed: the government retains the right to direct the choice of head of these theatres in the case of municipal theatres if they use state aid. This explicit is directly in the law. This is not a fantasy, it is stated in the law that this agreement must contain, including the way in which the leadership is elected. And obviously, the government doesn't want a say in the way in which the leadership is elected to go, as it has been before, the theatres themselves, or the maintainers themselves, choose the heads of the institutions. Yesterday, it was said by the Secretary of State, how good the museum practice is where the government has veto rights. We understand the government's intention. I would add that we did not know this yesterday, and this was confirmed by today's exposé, when Mr. Secretary of State began to give a professional opinion on the work of theatres from a political position on the pulpit of Parliament. The government also seems to know better in the field of art what the theatres need, and it wants to enforce it through the means of financial constraints. We also had serious objections to the bill in the other two respects. One relates to the introduction by the government of a new system of support linked to the Tao. This actually applies to monument buildings. There is no dispute between us that the protection of monuments is important. We could ask why they destroyed the monument protection system. It is not necessarily a dispute between us that there should be state resources for this matter even in the form of tax incentives, but that we do not agree that this will be presented in another law when Parliament also negotiates the Tao Law in normal proceedings. I guess if it's important, it was important two weeks or three weeks ago. I would have liked to have been brought here in connection with the amendment of the Tao Law, could have been discussed professionally. Finally, we welcomed it at the committee meeting, and welcome it now that the government's original plans were to nationalise the NKA, to destroy the former NKA system, because, according to the well-known, in principle secret government proposal, we know that this was the intention, but in this situation, this particular National Cultural Council, which you have presented, has not made much sense to define the law of cultural strategic institutions in this context either. That certain council will now look like the minister will sit down with the institutional leaders appointed by himself, the majority of which are not only professional, but also political, heads of state institutions from whom he can expect confirmation and not allow it... if they really want dialogue, then let the independents go and let the local government institutions go. That would make sense. The fact that you appoint institutions as strategic institutions, your own institutions, make them the center of the network, the alpha and the omega in the field of culture, frankly, it has nothing to do with your desire for power, but nothing to the nature of culture in the world, and certainly not to the dialogue. I add that the seriousness of these institutions is shown by the fact that the amendments tabled by the pro-government Members have changed the names of these institutions in several places, because the author has not even managed to get the exact name. Finally, Mr Secretary of State, in his impressive Commission response and hurrah-optimist exposé, we were unable to answer the simple question of why this was urgent on Monday morning at 8:30 a.m. [[20.10]] Why wasn't it important a week before, two weeks before, a month before? Why won't it be important in March? What is the extremely urgent interest of the government that you are referring to, because of which you had to present this bill, the Cultural Committee, the meaningful reconciliation of interests and the substantive debate in Parliament? Thus, opposition representatives could not support either the summary proposal or the bill. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-10-383	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. Vice-President István Hiller wishes to speak during today's joint debate. If Mr Vice-President's representatives speak, he may lead the sitting in the course of further negotiations of a separate motion only if the Parliament agrees to do so. I would therefore like to ask the Honourable Parliament, which agrees that Vice-President István Hiller will be able to chair the meeting during the further discussion of the presentation. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted my motion. Dear Parliament, We now have speeches from Members. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 30-30 minutes, and the independent Members have 8 minutes in total. In the first round of speeches, the lead speakers will present the group's position within a 15-minute time frame per group of representatives. I give the floor to Mr L. Simon László, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-12-10-384	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I am not in an easy position, because my fellow Member Mr Gergely Arató has reinterpreted the concept of opposition opinion, minority opinion. In fact, it was not a question of how we could sum up the opposition's opinion on a majority, pro-government opinion... [[Gergely Harvestó: That's what was said on the committee! Read the report.]] Congressman, I have so much patience. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And I've listened to you carefully, and I'll tell you honestly that your important... [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Weight loss with patience...]] I'd like to increase your sense of importance a little bit, even taking notes. I took almost two pages of what you said, and I didn't yell at you once, and I didn't argue with you. There's a form here, I'll comment, you'll comment. I would ask you to respect me by listening to my comments and not wasting my time in order to start such unworthy debates here at once. I'd like to respond substantially to some of the things you've said. I am simply saying that as a routine Member of Parliament, as former State Secretary, you have reinterpreted the concept of minority opinion, because it is not just a matter of very precise, very firm and very substantive summary of what is the opinion of the minority, what is the opinion of the minority, in which the opinion of the minority differs from the majority, but we have opened up a political debate that goes far beyond the text of this bill. And if there is any lesson to be learned from the past few days, the fact that they are actually arguing in public on issues such as yesterday's protestors, or as Deputy Secretary of State Philip told me on the phone today about yesterday's meeting of the National Lecturer Arts Stakeholder Council only so much that there was an agreement of interest or not... [[Gergely Arató: After the submission of the bill! Péter Ungár: Yesterday!]] Let me get this straight. The speakers also asked questions at the NEÉT meeting yesterday, which are not in the bill, and which do not follow either from the text of the bill or from its detailed justification. That's the only one, let's just say it's a question that we need to talk about here, and then why these feelings? What exactly motivates you, as opposed to what is written in the bill? Because, by the way, talking about the reorganization of the National Cultural Fund in a previous draft law, in a Ministry working paper, may have been the case, but it is frivolous to talk about it here in this Chamber, because the question is what has finally come before the House. There is a long and complicated process of preparation, and if the Ministry was really involved in the original proposal because I did not see it, but if the restructuring of the National Cultural Fund was included in the original proposal, but it did not, after all, submit the version to the House, then it was clearly well considered why the National Cultural Fund did not submit the proposal and why it believes that the National Cultural Fund, as a very important cultural funding organisation, as well as a state cultural funding organisation, should remain in the form it is currently in. Although I myself, as former president of the National Cultural Fund in recent years, have repeatedly said that the National Cultural Fund needs reform in many respects. Dear fellow Member, I mean, my fellow Member, Arató. In the parliamentary debate, as an opposition opinion, as a minority opinion, the government sought to nationalise the National Cultural Fund, I have nothing to say but that this is nonsense. The National Cultural Fund is the state fund created by the Hungarian Parliament, which distributes taxpayers' money to applicants and worthy applicants on a professional basis. What do you mean the government wants to nationalize the National Cultural Fund? The National Cultural Fund is part of the state subsystem! He's farming out of tax dollars. Transparently, within the legal framework, in accordance with the implementing regulation. So all the political accusations that are not in the law were made here. Let's look at some things. First of all, you claim that the essence of this bill is that you, my fellow Member, have said here that the theatres will accept the terms of the government. In fact, the public debates of the last few days were also about the government's intention to violate artistic autonomy with this bill. He's trying to violate creative freedom. But, ladies and gentlemen, from the bill in which the Government and the State Secretary describe the right of the state to expect the maintainers to support their institutions, their own institutions at least as much as the Hungarian state, why is it from this proposal that someone wants to tell us what adaptation to the Radnóti Theatre is to be staged in the III. Richard? I'm just saying this because Béla Pintér at the protest the other day, in his speech, said that the theatre that is not a government critic is boring. Well, the III. In Richard, I just watched it at the Radnóti Theatre, at the beginning of the second act, for ten minutes only the government was abused, obviously not Shakespeare wrote these parts in it... [[A statement from the opposition: This is what is happening!]] However, the lecture still had serious problems, and I was also admitted in a private conversation by the Vice-Rector of the University of Theatre Arts, and I have to say that Béla Pintér, whom I value a lot, and I consider to be a very good theatre specialist, is fundamentally wrong. Because theater doesn't become interesting or boring because government critics or government supporters are political or political. It is not an aesthetic category, it is not a professional category to otherwise be a theater government critic or not to be a lecture government critic or not. We know great Shakespeare pieces, say, I don't know, I could say a thousand comedies, or let's stay at Romeo and Juliet to say another classic piece, in which I can't really see where the performance is, no matter what the performance is, no matter what the adaptation is, modern processing, today's costumes, today's set, or some classic arrangement, I don't really see what makes it government critic or pro-government. What makes it good or less good, boring or interesting? So I think that there are serious problems here, and that probably the theatrical professionals who are speaking only out of indiscretion, but you are obviously, Mr Arató, from a systematic, conscious slide, with the intention of deceiving people, saying that the violation of artistic freedom, the violation of creative independence and autonomy is the government's goal. In fact, I will go on, I said to Mr Black Secretary of State, I think I can say or recite our private conversation here, that we should not have initiated this amendment with the theatres, but with the museums. Today in Hungary there are several large museums with county scope, which the municipalities contribute zero forints to the maintenance of. Moreover, not only opposition cities, but mostly pro-government cities, where they contribute zero forints to the support of the museum, or much less than state aid. [[20.20]] These museums, my fellow Members, are managed only and exclusively by the government's support, i.e. through state aid, their own revenue and domestic government and EU funding. This is unacceptable! This is unacceptable! And don't forget that, in the case of these museums, there has been a very long and effective veto and a right of agreement between ministers, to be precise about the appointment of the head of the institution. As I recall, in the last eight years since we introduced this, perhaps once the Ministry has exercised the right to vote on the right of consent to veto the appointment of a museum director; otherwise, in the case of a county seat, in the case of a county-righted city with a maximum Fidesz majority and a Fidesz mayor. So you can't even say that he used him as some kind of political club against an opposition-led city. For example, I do not recall that it was mentioned or suggested once in the Ministry that, let's say, the director of the museum in Szeged, the otherwise excellent professional Otto Fogas, would not have been supported by the Ministry when he was appointed, when the majority led by Mayor Botka elected him twice over the past period since the adoption of the new law as museum director. So I do not quite understand what you are talking about, and I understand what you are talking about, but the truth is that everything you are talking about is not coming from this proposal, honourable Members. I think the Hungarian state and the Hungarian taxpayers rightly expect local governments to add money, their own resources, to the maintenance of the theatres. And if you do not take this responsibility... because it is a responsibility and do not forget, fellow Members, maintaining the theatre from the Fundamental Law and cultural legislation is not a mandatory task. The provision of library tasks and public education tasks is a mandatory task, the operation of the theatre is not a mandatory task, so if a local government wants to operate a theatre, then add its source! Fellow Members! I have been one of the key actors and leaders of cultural policy for many years, taking into account my management of the NKA for several months, and even during my two State Secretariats. I have experienced several times that, in the event that we increased government support in a municipality, the maintenance aid was reduced accordingly by the municipality. Now, Mr Secretary of State, there are a number of examples where I personally asked him not to allow, after replacing the Tao grant, the extra support of a performing art organization, which he has just received directly from the Ministry, to reduce the municipality's own support at the same rate. And what we have seen well in the last year is that, where the amount of State aid that triggers it has increased compared to the Tao grant, the municipality has reduced the aid at the same or nearly the same rate. The State does not provide additional support to performing arts organisations to reduce the costs of maintenance municipalities, but to enable these organisations to manage with more money. And let me just say, back to the example of museums: if the maintainers added as much money as the state adds to the museums, it would already be much easier to deal with the problem that we have been discussing for a very long time now as a matter of salary increases in the public and public collection sectors. In the case of a museum where the state grants between HUF 150 and HUF 250 million, and the municipality adds zero forints to this, how is the Hungarian state expected to raise wages only? If the municipality added the same amount, it would already manage 150, 200 or 250 million forints more. Dear fellow Member of the harvester, If you've introduced a new genre, I'll do the same, and my speech as the lead speaker is already part of the debate. To say that we have transformed Tao support, government support, is again to carry on the same lie. Tao support was public money from Hungarian taxpayers' money. The support was already due to the fact that, by the way, the Hungarian Parliament had passed a law that over a part of the public money [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Gave the taxpayer the right to dispose of it. This driver's license was taken back by the Hungarian state because of many abuses, and by the way, if we had just looked at the capital, honourable Members, not only would this government club have worked, which you claim to have done, but there has also been an increase in the additional support of the institutions with capital reservations compared to what these institutions collected as support from the Tao on average for the previous three years. So if someone looks at the situation and looks at the numbers, they see that every statement you're making here is a lie. Obviously, it does not follow from this bill that the government wants to choose the theatre directors, which is what you said, my fellow Member Arató, as an accusation. That's a lie! The government doesn't want to choose the theatre directors. The government says that in the event that the support of the theater's maintainers does not reach the state aid, there is a possibility of a maintenance change. And in this case, by the way, the state is saying in some way that I want to express at least one right of agreement my opinion on the theatre. So it's okay. No one forbids municipalities from otherwise supporting their institutions to a greater extent than they currently do, and it is not at all apparent from this bill that the institutions that maintainers want to give serious support to them would be affected in any way by the possibility of a maintenance change, not even by their obligation. Ladies and gentlemen, There is a very important part of this bill that has not been mentioned at all in the last few days, but I am glad that my fellow Member Arató mentioned that it is an amendment to the Tao system of monuments. And it's very important to use the term "amendment." Dear fellow Member, There is no need to introduce a new system. It's an existing system. I myself have been pushing for this for many years, and I still think that we should or should go even further, because we can [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] through the corporate tax system... Then I'll use you from normal time, Mr. President. [[On behalf of the President:]] I can't, so next time. Okay, well, I'll get back to you on that in my proper speech. Thank you very much for your attention, fellow Members. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-10-385	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Balczó, the lead speaker of the Group of Jobbik.
u2019-12-10-386	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, You wanted to give your weight and dignity to the trial of this bill by going out to the pulpit and starting with an inspired literary introduction, otherwise you went beyond the content of the bill itself, but I agree with that, and I accept it, as L. Simon László said. I'm not trying to overextend in time. You would have given your dignity to the trial of this bill if you had not tabled a bill on Monday at 8:57 p.m. that you said you had begun preparing on 3 December 2015. What's wrong with this submission? The problem with this submission is that we don't discuss it in the usual order. We're not starting with the general debate. The cultural commission had no way of discussing this. The consequence of this is that it has now been completed, so Jobbik is not a cultural politician, but I represent myself, who I am not. However, I feel it is only right to speak, since I have to decide on this issue with my vote. Normally, a faction uses an expert to negotiate an important proposal. This was not possible in this negotiating mode. I would like to tell you what this bill is not about for me. It's not about personal matters that this is a Péter Gothár case. On Monday, when these questions were raised before the agenda, we heard from the government side all the time that anyone who does not support this proposal rejects it stands up for the harasser Péter Gothár. This is completely absurd! [[20.30]] You were, of course, at the TAB meeting. There I was charged, after Attila Vidnyánszky is a high-ranking director, I acknowledge his support for this proposal, and because I have expressed on behalf of Jobbik that we do not support this, that I am on the side of Robert Alföldi, and I would like to put Robert Alföldi on the head of the National Theatre. It's not like that. The fact that I am in favour or not in favour of this issue is not a statement that I would like to see Robert of Alföldi against Attila Vidnyánszky there. So let's get this straight, that's not what it's about. What's it about? In some way, this proposal seeks to break down an established ratio, a balance between municipal and state funding and maintenance of theatres. I'm just trying to talk about what's here and make sense of it. I hope that if Congressman L. Simon disagrees with him, he will not say that I am lying, but that he will say that I am wrong, but this was just a detour. What is the reason that this ratio, this choice of influence, is now changing? What is the reason for this? And then I quote exactly what is included in this:. The operation of the theatres is the responsibility of the maintainer. Now is this responsibility fully enforceable, I will continue if a joint agreement has to be concluded between the minister and the municipality, which includes detailed rules for operation, the method of appointment of management is obviously not a technical issue here, and the level of support to be provided from the budget is also fixed? Well, I'm not saying that there's a veto right in this literally; there's no right of agreement, there's a possibility of that, and he actually said that in the museum area it does exist, so it wouldn't be a sacrilege. You said it was only applied once, I say it was applied, and we do not know how it will be applied in this new situation. And is it between point (a) and point (b) that the wrong person is thinking wrong? there may be some connection between fixing the amount of support to be granted from the budget and affecting the appointment of managers, as we hear, where appropriate, having the right to agree. This can be easily linked: I link certain support, the extent of which I would like to support the appointment of a theatre director. By the way, is it axiom that if the state provides resources to a particular institution, then it is clear that it should have the right to intervene in the appointment of a leader? It's not axiom. It's not axiom, because we're looking at the territory of religion. Churches maintain educational and cultural institutions, and do we know that, in the case of a church educational institution, instead of a particular maintainer, there is an agreement, and the state has a veto right? No, I don't. So let us be clear: it is not axiom that if the state contributes to the costs of the operation of an institution, then it means that it naturally has a say in these questions. By the way, I wonder if politics doesn't excite the opposite in this area. I'm not a cultural expert. I'm just asking the question quietly. If we look at the repertoire of the Soldier József Theatre, then it's a so-called liberal theater, so we should, say, brand it, and a conservative person couldn't go there and be part of a quality performance? I looked at the Russian classics, by the way, the repertoire of this theater, so it's not true that it has to be stamped with a clear stamp. By the way, when the leaders are elected, they often say that I don't want to be prime minister, mayor of the mayor of those who elected me, but of everyone. Then it must be noted that, in addition to the cultural trend that he represents and considers appropriate, another must be allowed to do so, but I believe that from the other side too, Gergely Christmas has also stated literally that: I want to be the mayor of those who did not elect me. Then perhaps you should acknowledge that the New Theatre does not need to be classified as a fascist theater because, for example, the Wass Albert adaptation of the Witch of Funtineli is listed there. You have to watch your show, by the way, I don't see that it's something extra different from what a person, let's say, with a liberal mind, would like to see. What I think is unacceptable, and I don't know, somewhere in the pits of the Rogán propagandaisterium, there was a word, an expression that we've heard several times here, the concept of a blackmail theatre. Blackmail theater! [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Harassment Theatre!]] Harassing, I'm sorry. Very, very good, thank you for correcting me. Yeah, it's a stalker's theater that gives us the opportunity to blackmail, but let's stick to the stalker's theater. How do you imagine that, in doing so, an entire theater where yes, a harassment has occurred, of course, we condemn you as a stalker's theater? Do your other artists, your head liter, wear the stamp that he works at a stalker's theater? Which is now added because there is also suspicion, but then the New Theatre is also a stalker's theater? So this is an irresponsible level of political propaganda that goes beyond my limits. By the way, what is this bill about for me, which must now be brought in as a matter of urgency? This fits into a series in my eyes. The series includes the Central European Press and Media Foundation, central management of public education, today's decision on the completely one-sided Fidesz governance of the NMHH Media Council, i.e. the same Fidesz effort behind the law that partially redesigns this cultural area, which means that we strive to curb everything, prevent where autonomous ideas, decisions and reservations have the potential. That's why Jobbik doesn't support it. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-10-387	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. 15 minutes, please, Congressman.
u2019-12-10-388	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, We are discussing an important bill, which has many goals, but it also has an additional positive benefit, which we did not originally think of: Mr Bernadett Wind came back to work after a long weeks; it is certainly a positive and welcome fact that he is back with us and will join the debate. I'd like to begin with a quote from Ronald Reagan: "It's not that liberals are ignorant. It's about knowing a lot of things that aren't. The fact is that this fits most in the current situation, as in the last few days, pissing off public opinion and pissing off society, your journalists have written a lot, as my fellow Member Balczó said, I do not say ignorance in the newspaper that it is a lie. That's what he said about using ignorance, not lying. There's a lot of fake news written by your media, so let's take a look at what it's about. They said the NKA was gonna go away. Well, the NKA isn't gonna stop. [[Péter Ungár: Originally they wanted it!]] That's what they said, that the NKA will cease, and it turns out that the NKA will not cease. There is an original proposal that may have been drawn up by a rapporteur, and it is written that it is not the government's position, but you will immediately declare that it is the NKA. You also wrote that alternative theatres will be impossible. Well, alternative theatres aren't touched by the government. It was also written that artistic, creative freedom cannot prevail. I'd quote the law now you've had 36 hours to read, I'm sure you've succeeded in 16. Paragraph 7 of the Act: The agreement on the joint operation of the theatre must guarantee the artistic freedom of the theatre operating together. It's literally written down in the law 16. Paragraph 7 of this Article. [[20.40]] Which is in the bill, and of course you didn't talk about it, because you only dealt with fake news, that the government only offers joint funding to the municipal theater. Increasing budget support for culture will enable the most important institutions in the sector to plan in a long-term and balanced way. In 2010, in the last fiscal year adopted by the socialists, HUF 172 billion was available for Hungarian culture, which is HUF 584 billion in the 2019-20 budget. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar intervenes.]] The 2020 budget! So 172 billion, whatever inflation you're counting on, Professor, it doesn't come out in any way that it's the same. There were 172 billion in 2010 and 584 billion in the 2020 budget. That's the difference. So there are growing cultural budget subsidies. What is also included in the law is the creation and creation of the concept of cultural strategic institutions. The purpose, main or main purpose of the law is to ensure, under clear responsibilities, the resources necessary for the operation of the theatres and to create a fair situation for regulation. That's what it says, not what you say. Therefore, the proposal clarifies the details of the maintenance of the institutions and also provides for the possibility of joint operation. It also justifies the regulation, and you have been very silent about it, and my fellow Member, Mr Harvest, has been particularly silent about it. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] justified by the fact that there has been a suspicion of unlawful non-financial abuse in recent years [[Gergely Harvesto: But when I open my mouth!]] in theatres operating from both public and municipal sources, which in itself justify clarification of the responsibilities. You didn't demand an investigation of these scandals, you considered the Gothar case closed. [[Péter Ungár: You are liberal!]] You didn't demand that these... wind Bernadett didn't show up here with a black eye to cover up Gothar's harassment case, or even cover it up. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Don't talk about me, talk about the law.]] You were covering for me... [[Dr. Wind Bernadett, about the law! Noise in the benches of opposition representatives. The president's ringing the bell. Dr. Wind Bernadett to the President: Seriously, don't get personal.]] You have covered up your statements for those who have tried to cover up this flagrant scandal for over a year. For example, the Deputy Mayor of Gyurcsány... [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] I'll listen to you too, Congresswoman.
u2019-12-10-389	My fellow Members, I think that this case is worthy of us listening to each other. I think it's mutual. [[Antal Csárdi: And personalism is house-to-house?]] Back and forth .......................................................................................................................................... [[Gergely Arató: He insults the opposition one by one!]] They heard it, too. I'm sorry. I guess we're all tired. [[Peter Ungár: I don't!]] I think everyone's listening to the other side, I don't remember anyone interrupting. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-12-10-390	Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: The opposition is to blame!]] Lot. Erzsébet Németh, Deputy Mayor of Gyurcsány, did not order an investigation into the case of the Katona József Theatre immediately. [[Zsolt Gréczy: He was arrested!]] Because he said he didn't think there was a case because there was no report. [[Zsolt Gréczy: But they conducted the investigation and fired the director!]] He said he didn't think there was a case. So they were covering for the cover-ups, too. [[Zsolt Gréczy: He was arrested! Péter Ungár: Yes! Yes, it did!]] You are still not separated from Sándor Burány, who said at the TAB meeting yesterday that he believes that sexual harassment is coercion. [[Moraj from the benches of opposition representatives. Zsolt Gréczy:...Why do you say no?]] Well, because I didn't, that's why. [[Peter Ungár: Yes, yes! Interventions on the opposition side.]] We don't think there's room for stalkers in theatre life. Tell me, fellow Members, that if it is natural for Gergely Christmas to appoint the theatre director in the theatres of the capital, then why is the state not entitled to such a right if it is maintenance! Why? If Gergely Christmas appoints the theatre director, is democracy, if Miklós Kásler, dictatorship? Is that what this is about? The same liberal double standard we always face in your politics? Is that what this is about? [[Gergely Harvesto: No one told me!]] Gergely Christmas's cultural policy, the cultural policy of Gergely Christmas, supported by Jobbik, became... [[Zoltán Balczó: We did not support it!]] Congressman, you weren't sure at the time, you supported him. [[Defiance, murmuring on the opposition side. Zoltán Balczó: I am offended! Dr. Brenner Koloman: He knows better! Zoltán Balczó: This is incredible!]] Gergely Christmas's cultural policy was exhausted during the first week of his mayor's office by saying that there would be an open theater director's competition, but who could not win it. This is Gergely Christmas's cultural policy. He was the one who told me who couldn't win the theater director contest. [[Péter Ungár: Which theater?]] He was the one who said it was political... and Jobbik was the one who had previously initiated the replacement of theatre directors on a political basis, for example, at the National Theatre. [[Péter Ungár: But you replaced him! This government replaced him on a political basis!]] You referred to Róbert Alföldi, it was you, your party, who for six years demanded that the Director General of the National Theatre be removed immediately on political grounds. It was Jobbik, you asked for political pressure. [[Gergely Harvestó: They have been enlightened ever since! Follow them. There's no shame in developing.]] You are accusing us of political appointment, and exactly you have asked for this on many occasions, not only from us, but also from the governments of the current opposition. The thing is, now the state is going to become a maintainer, or by mutual agreement, as it has been before, it's going to be a maintainer. My fellow harvester in the minority opinion said why the maintenance staff did not appoint the directors as before. Well, isn't the state a maintenance man? If you contribute 200, 300, 400 million forints a year to the operation of a theatre, is the state not a maintainer? Suddenly, when we want to create clean relations, public money is no longer so important to you. [[Péter Ungár: This was before October 13th!]] It is not so important for you to control public money, it is not so important for you to control the fate of public money and get into clean hands with the state's support to the theatres. Because you want the state to pour hundreds of millions of forints into the theatres without saying a word, without having the right to control or inspect anything. And I absolutely reject the fact that my good-looking fellow Member is somehow bringing recompense to the church here. [[Zsolt Balczó: What compensation?]] it works on the basis of an international treaty, a completely different issue [[Zoltán Balczó: The Bishop of Győr appoints the school director!]] Let's not talk about that in the current bill. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: We'll have you signed up for some reason.]] It is important for you to have public money, it is important to have clean conditions, it is important to have enough money in Hungarian culture, it is important to have clean, predictable conditions in theatres otherwise? Because if so, in spite of all the Fake news you've been cleaning up the world with in the last few days, which is not true, because we've made it clear that it's not true, then despite all the Fake news, since we've made it clear that they're only creating clean relations, you can support this law. That's what I'm asking you to do. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-10-391	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Please calm down for a moment. Allow me to give the floor to Congressman István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, lead speaker of the MSZP. Mr. Vice President, please.
u2019-12-10-392	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Dear Secretary of State, There's something stylish about talking about this law in the dark of the night. I do not think it is a coincidence, but I think it is conscious that we are discussing this as the last item on the agenda today. I do not think that it is simply a mechanical classification that we are talking about this as the last item on the agenda of our sitting day, because it was thought that the public that embodied this law and the spirit that this law embodies was very and too curious. I feel that this law, this proposal, you want to hide, and that is why this debate will take place at this late hour. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's right!]] But either during the day or in the evening, it is worth looking at what it contains in terms of form and content, and of course it is worth our thoughts, and, as I look at it, the thoughts of many of our fellow citizens, who do not necessarily follow party politics, but who are very fond of theatrical life, should be expressed. First of all, the formal submission, although it does not violate any house rules, is still meaningful. This bill has been tabled 36 hours ago, and is now being discussed and will be voted on in 15 hours. This means that the whole of the law, the whole negotiation of the law, including the vote, is to be rolled down in 50 hours, which is possible in itself, but belongs precisely to the style of which I have just spoken and which I am critical of sharply. It is, Mr Secretary of State, that five excellent people talk to each other about culture, not consultation. I don't think that's a negotiation. I consider it to be a discussion when the whole group of participants, those who agree and are likely to criticize discuss a particular issue, whether they express their views to the public at the stage of preparation, and, following it, even taking into account critical opinions, draft the law. [[20.50]] You know exactly, as many of you know, that the Act of Performing Arts was negotiated for two years, not by five theater directors, but by invitation from all Hungarian theatre directors at the Kolibri Theatre, of whom two were not present. One was sick, the other was abroad, everyone else was sitting there. This was not the end point, it was not the negotiation of the announcement, it was the debate of the basic concept, which then changed a lot in our opinion, it changed a lot, because a host of us did not think of everything, a host of us were able to tell everything to the respected theatre directors, and from this came out an opinion which, in addition to the criticism of a very large part of the profession, could mean acceptance. That's what I consider to be a negotiation. What I do not consider to be a negotiation is that five people, once again, are talking about culture or part of it, whether they are people of high quality. Therefore, all that I have just said is the submission of the law, the fact that this bill will be overturned in fifty hours, and the real lack of coordination constitutes a whole concept for me. You didn't want to discuss this in public, you didn't want to discuss it in public on parliamentary sittings, you actually wanted to consciously hide it so that as few people as possible knew about it. Another issue is that those who like and love the Hungarian theatre, are critical and not critical, took note of this bill, and, as I looked past yesterday the crowd who view the bill in a subtle way, they did not stand up for either the method or the content. But let's really look at the content. I have to say to you that there is a difference between us in the basic question, not in itself in detail of a paragraph, a wording, but in relation to the basic concept, the role of the state, the relationship between the state and culture, the financing of culture and the linking of the role of the state. I should therefore like to say to you that I cannot create a common set in which you have submitted this bill with a view of state, because this bill is influenced by the same spirit that nationalized schools, the same spirit that makes the school director of all Hungarian schools dependent on the appointment of a minister. I see the same spirit that deprived the Hungarian Academy of Sciences of its institutions, its institutions. I see this freedom as a reduction in autonomy. I must say to you, honourable members of the government, that there is a difference in perception between us, not that there are certain wordings that differ from our taste, but that we have a fundamental difference in perception. We don't want a state like this. We don't want the minister to tell us who should be director at Kossuth School in Zalaegerszeg and Deák School in Mátészalka. That's not the state we want. We do not want a Hungary where the government's mandate obtained by voters extends to empty local autonomy, loses its real rights, or undermines its formulation and content. This, please, is, in our view, an emptying of the republic, an unacceptable interpretation of the role of the state, which we will not agree with now or later. I should therefore like to say to you that what has been created on the issue of the appointment of theatre directors is, more clearly, a reduction in freedom, artistic freedom and the autonomy of the theatre. The wording is undoubtedly cynical. You say that if the municipality wants to finance its theatre in its entirety, you will not agree. However, the resources have been withdrawn from the municipalities to the extent that there is no Hungarian government today capable of maintaining the theatre, and this is specifically and to the greatest extent true of the capital. Therefore, the wording that it is said that if you do not have enough money, you can turn to the government and enter into an agreement within 30 days, which indeed states that detailed rules for the joint operation and operation of the institution should be drawn up in the form of a management appointment. That means if I give you money, I'll tell you who's the director of the theater, and if you don't agree to this, there's no deal. And it's not a matter of principle, it's a question of hard money. If I can't tell you who's the director of the theater, I won't give you any money. We see this perception as an overgrowth of the state. I tell you that this bill is not really about art, this bill is about power, and an extension of power that we will not, in this form, in this particular case, or in general, will not, want or accept. I must therefore say to you that the debate on the bill is certainly an opportunity to highlight in itself the problems and issues that are broader than the law. What I see, honourable pro-government Members, honourable secretary of state, is that after occupying the political space, and not simply the mandates won in elections, but after the attempt to occupy the political space as a whole, after the occupation of the economic space, you have now targeted art, targeted culture, and I consider this bill to be an attempt at conquest in the field of culture. I believe that this concept of state considers the municipalities to be a necessary evil, in which I see no partnership, and I must point out that it is not a coincidence that this bill will not be discussed as the last item on the agenda of the last day before December, after 13 October. I think that you are very disturbed by what happened on 13 October, and this is closely related to the submission and wording of this law. Therefore, in order to avoid any misunderstanding, I repeat, I believe that, after occupying the political and economic space, you are now preparing to occupy the cultural space. I also have to say that in the preliminary debate, expressions, words and content have come up that must be rejected not only by people who are political but also by all those who feel good. The term stalker theatre is cultural horror. That means that a man's sinful act would make them want to brand an entire community. [[Peter Ungár: That's right. Applause on the opposition side.]] This is the view of cultural collective guilt, which, once again, does not matter which political side, which party and which faction we belong to, this is rejected by a good, democratic man. Therefore, I think that the term "interrupting theater" should be deleted very quickly from their dictionary. Very fast. And if you don't take this the wrong way, I think that's why you should apologize to the Hungarian cultural life. [[Peter Ungár: That's right! Applause on the opposition side.]] Apologize to people who, as actors, directors, as employees of the theatre's most diverse positions, have not only performed and performed their duties in a high standard, but also in complete decency. To stigmatize a criminal act, a collective because of a person, this is not European democracy. And I am sure that if you look deep into yourselves, both you and Hungarian democracy are behind this, at least you should be over it. Bringing back such thoughts is particularly bad, wrong, and wrong. [[21.00]] I must say, therefore, on the whole, that the proposal that certainly does not contain a lot of things compared to a preliminary version, but I have not yet seen a document or presentation, in any way I have had the opportunity to gain some experience with the fact that the letters fall from the sky on a paper, they form a full page, and, for example, they are arranged to give substance to the transformation of the National Cultural Fund. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] I don't think it just sort of came together. Someone thought that out, someone wrote that down, and you're right about not having any legal relevance, but I, since I don't think this law is the end of the attempt to conquer the field of culture, do not think that this debate between us will end with this bill. I must say, therefore, once again, we, and I think that many in this country, in this law, are seeing a reduction in the freedom of culture, of art, a restriction of autonomy, and that is why we will not support either this or this kind of thing now or in the future. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-10-393	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, Democratic Coalition.
u2019-12-10-394	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, István Hiller is thorough, and I think that after his deep speech on the subject, it will be a little strange, but I will be lost in a few small stories in my two-minute frame. One is that I am very pleased that my fellow Member L. Simon László lied to Viktor Orbán, who said that tao money is not public money, and you have admitted here and now that it is the money of Hungarian taxpayers. For example, I think this is a very important story right away. And the other is that you say that if the state puts money in something, like running a theater, then the state has a say, especially if the municipality can't put enough money into this. But if you bring in legislative proposals and force local governments into a position where, for example, you will also tell them what business tax can be used for, then you will have less money for the theatre, because you need something else to spend on, the revenue that you will also tell us what this area is, and when there will be less money for the theatre in that municipality, then you will spread your arms and you will say, well, you couldn't maintain this theatre, and you need more support from the state, so we, the state, will tell you who should be the director of this theatre. Basically, the whole story is nothing but cheap extortion: blackmailing local governments, blackmailing companies that want to work and blackmailing everyone who cares about the freedom of culture and the freedom of art. It took two minutes, but of course I'll have more to say. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-12-10-395	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking you, someone else wants to make a two-minute speech. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The speeches announced in writing will now take place. I give the floor to Member László Pósán, Fidesz Group.
u2019-12-10-396	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I felt that, according to what has been said so far, thoughts have been gathered around the theatre, and that other aspects of the law have been given less attention, so allow me to focus on this myself. I think, on the basis of what has been said so far and on the basis of previous statements, it is safe to say that the left has basically the problem with the new theatrical law that he cannot get his hands on the two or three non-baliberal theatres that exist in Budapest, and he cannot kick out the theatre leaders that he believes are not Balliberal, because we have no doubt that this intention exists. Congressman Nacsa has already indicated that the mayor has sent a message... [[Antal Csárdi:...only slander goes on!]] Thank you so much for saying...
u2019-12-10-397	Fellow Members! I think, as we listened to Vice President Hiller, we should listen to everyone... [[László Sebian-Petrovszki: Quality difference! The president's ringing the bell.]] Congressman! Let's just leave it at that. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-12-10-398	So the mayor has already told György Dörner not to apply. I would only add in parentheses that György Dörner, who was campaigning and fighting for Jobbik back in 2014, was practically guilty of not following Jobbik on the Gyurcsányi road. Despite the professional jury's support for the Bán Teodóra, which has been successfully managing the Free Space Theatre for 15 years, was commissioned in 2004 during the MSZP-SZDSZ administration, his application was cancelled by the Mayor. Not because his contract expired, the new application was canceled because he didn't think he was close enough to the balliberal side. Bán Teodo's only crime was that he was politically neutral in running open - air theatres. The new Balliberal leadership in the capital apparently follows the principle that Mátyás Rákosi once declared: he who is not with us is against us. On the other hand, let us remember that the municipality of Budapest, led by István Tarlós, has not fired any theater leaders because of political affiliation, and even appointed directors with a suitable Balliberal attachment. For example, in 2011 Gábor Máté became the head of the Katona József Theatre, and in 2016 the mandate was extended for five years by Mayor Tarlós. By the way, there was no way to know if there were any harassments or not. By the way, let us note that the cultural institution operated jointly by the municipality and the state has been mentioned for many years in the case of museums, where we also need the consent of the minister. We have just heard from Congressman Hiller that it means the end or restriction of the freedom of theatre, culture and art, the vision of political influence of the theatre culture is the current draft law, and as one speaker said at their demonstration yesterday, the theatre is either oppositional, or balliberal, or boring. [[Zsolt Gréczy: That's not what he said!]] If this is what you are afraid of in Hungary, let's see how this works in Berlin, for example, in Berlin, which is controlled by a socialist-led and colored municipality. Well, how does artistic freedom prevail there? [[Gergely Arató and Péter Ungár intervene. The president's ringing the bell.]] In German theatres in Berlin, politics shares positions, so practically in 2004 the Mayor organized things into holding. Everything is determined by socialist politicians, my honourable fellow Member, in Berlin, everything. Then the theatre in Berlin must be boring. Thank you very much. [[Nacha Lawrence applauds. Gergely Harvesto applauded: "Well done!]]
u2019-12-10-399	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, That's more serious, I think we're entitled to expect, right? We now have a speech from Congressman Brenner Koloman, Jobbik Group.
u2019-12-10-400	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, After 50 hours of death is over, and the two-thirds of the Fidesz will vote for this, just like everything else, when, like this morning, we are being pushed aside, and because of this, we will have to hold a parliamentary meeting next week, then again one of the stages of a long process will be experienced by the Hungarian public, namely that they will be re-introducing a salad law that will be aired in front of it with a rougher variety, and then, since the Hungarian Academy of Arts has just said that this may be an exaggeration, then we will take it back a little in order for the Secretary of State to enter into retourisms and say that it is not in it, it is not in it, it is not in it, it is not in it, comrades! [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] So there is practically such a process that we are now accustomed to by Fidesz, which, with its anti-knowledge, intellectual policy, has now become a party to the book-burners. They're meant to be Bolsheviks. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: The flag...?]] I would like to tell my colleague Nacsa that you weren't alive when I was alive. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It's not worth it!]] and I get to know the Bolsheviks because they sit in your benches with all the MSZMP members; Comrade Szili, Comrade Bratislava and all the other MSZMP members [[L. Simon László: The Bratislava is long dead! Shame on you.]] And there's a reason there's no screening with the two thirds of the fidesz. [[Mihály Balla: I'll take this...!]] [[21.10]] I would like more modesty from my fellow Member Nacsa, as he has simple text understanding problems, I have heard from his previous statement. [[L. Simon László: Bratislava is long dead, shame on you!]] That's all right. The truth is, with the Bagi-Nacsa show closed, I have to say that you were very frightened, apparently, on October 13th. After all, the party rule of cultural life is a great achievement even compared to you. Fidesz has become a terminally harassing party, as workers were first harassed by the slave law, then harassed by the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, which Vice-President Hiller has already referred to, by leaving the research network every day, our excellent researchers are leaving our country for their criminal policies, honourable fellow Members of the Fidesz. I wouldn't respond to the KDNP that doesn't exist, because you won't soon have a faction under the new rules, because you usually reach zero percent in the parliamentary elections, according to my memory. You, Fidesz, are harassing Hungarian science within universities, Fidesz is harassing media freedom, and Fidesz is harassing culture. So after the general introduction, some interesting stains for my evaluation. There's the intergalactic council, so I'm sorry, so it's a council like the communist council rule, to which every theater director will turn. Let's go to the council, shall we, as in the old days, comrades, you don't remember this, my fellow Member Nacsa, unfortunately I do by my age. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: No merit.]] Basically, we'll be revisiting the same council system as we were when I was a young adult. I mean, the intergalactic, I mean, cultural council is very simple, because I think it tells you everything about your culture understanding that they give to the Maga 350 million, which is the veterinary horse of your culture, so Comrade Mága gets 350 million, of which he will give $2 million of the Hungarian taxpayers' money on Facebook posts, and then, by the way, the excellent artist's colleague would make a living on the ticket, as we know. So, technically, that's your culture concept, but the National Philharmonic doesn't delegate to this council, because in Kodály and Bartók, music culture is not culture, respected comrades of Fidesz, only circus culture. I understand your Bolshevik culture. Then let's move on. Let us face it, though, that reference is made to transparency and resource efficiency in this matter, really, seriously, these walls have seen a lot of things, but this is already a chimbo of insolence, my honourable fellow Members. It's just that the complete destruction of the kind of public life that's been happening here for over nine years is going to continue in cultural life. After all, despite nine years of two-thirds domination and hundreds of billions of taxpayers' money, there are unfortunately no works of your court authors' pen and claviculture that we need. So basically output zero, and a lot of Hungarian taxpayers' money for the fidesze moonyard, Zoltán Mága, and so on... I'd like to see what this moonyard means and what it meant a little earlier. Ákos Bod Péter, your candidate for Prime Minister, may I say, sat in the Jobbik office in Sopron not so long ago on a forum, because your shameful Bolshevik system did not allow in Sopron, in this old, respectable civilian city, to have a civilized debate, because it is your political and cultural approach. Jobbik therefore stands in favour of freedom of Hungarian culture as a renewed national party and as a democratic conservative party, and opposes the one-party culture. As opposed to Fidesz's anti-knowledge and culture policy, we are a civil conservative force on the side of knowledge, innovation and culture, and we will not support this shameful bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-10-401	Dear Parliament, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, DK Group.
u2019-12-10-402	Thank you very much. Congressman Pósan has no luck [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Posán.]] I said Posai. Do we have a deal? Thank God you're okay, there's a consensus in this. So, Congressman, you're out of luck, because I was able to negotiate in Berlin with the head of staff leading the theater life, because there, not even the mayor appoints the theatre directors, but, on the basis of an absolute political-neutral professional jury, an intendant. In addition, although I appreciate the performance of the social democrats, there is coalition governance in this circle with the greens, in the previous round with the Christian Democrats. They are, of course, not like Mr. Nacha, but genuine Christian democrats. So, the thing is, unfortunately, this reference is wrong. However, I am very grateful for your contribution because you have made it clear that Mr Kocsis and your other politicians lie like a stream of water when they say that this bill is not about the appointment of theatre directors. Congressman Pósan has made it very clear what this is all about. This is about not being able to decide on the basis of the new bodies' application, on a professional basis, who should be the director of the theater. It's about the fact that while you're robbing the Katona József Theatre for conducting an investigation and exposing the abuse, you're trying to protect it on a political basis by István Tarlós, the theater leader appointed in the New Theatre despite protesting the profession, who actually covered up the sexual harassment case and didn't really investigate it. That's what this is about, and nothing else, these are your intentions, not the national culture they're reciting. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-12-10-403	Thank you. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Balczó, Member of the Jobbik Group.
u2019-12-10-404	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I just want some clarification, probably, I couldn't make it clear to Oliver Nacha what I wanted. What I told you wasn't about...
u2019-12-10-405	Congressman, if you'll excuse me, please address our fellow Member by his name.
u2019-12-10-406	What? Ow! Ow! Ow! Ow! Ow!
u2019-12-10-407	Nacsa Lawrence.
u2019-12-10-408	Lawrence. I'm sorry. [[Defiance.]] I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] My apologies.
u2019-12-10-409	It's okay. I'll count the time. Please continue.
u2019-12-10-410	Feel free to call me András Balczó, because I've been mixed up too. Excuse me, thank you for the correction. Now I have a minute and 20 seconds left. So I was saying that there is an area where the state is very well funded, but it doesn't say anything about the appointment of an institution to maintain full autonomy. For example, the Catholic Church's schoolkeeping activities are supported by the state, rightly so, and if András Veres, chief pastor of the diocese of Győr, decides who will be appointed to head the school center of Vilmos Apor, who will not be appointed, who will not be withdrawn, no one else has a say in this, no state has a say. So what I've been trying to prove is that it's not an option today that if someone, a maintenance person, is supported by the state, it's definitely involved. By the way, look at whether or not we supported Gergely Christmas. It's a matter of fact, we didn't support it. I said his name right, didn't I? Christmas Gregory. And let me tell you that George Dörner wasn't a better man. György Dörner is an artist close to István Csurka in MIÉP, and I admire him as an actor and director, and I consider that in the colourful palette of the Budapest culture and theater life, the New Theatre has its place, and we do not classify him as a fascist theater because he staged a play called The Witch of Funtineli from a work by Wass Albert. That's all I'm talking about. And there's no need to involve any other party political relationship. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-10-411	Thank you very much, Congressman. I've included the time frame, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Pósán, Member of the Fidesz Group, for a two-minute speech.
u2019-12-10-412	Thank you, Mr. President. I just want to say that I really didn't have time to tell you that the theaters in Berlin are organized into a foundational system, a board of foundations and a board of directors are running the whole thing. The Executive Director shall be the head of the Management Board, who shall have the right of veto and shall not take any decisions on the Board without him. [[21.20]] The Board of Foundation is seven members, and the Vice Mayor of Culture sits on the Board of Foundation, on his proposal the CEO of the Board of Directors is appointed, and the proposal of the Vice Mayor of Culture cannot be overwritten, so it is decided in one person. What if it's not politics, Congressman? [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes. It's an interrogation from the ruling parties. Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]]
u2019-12-10-413	Thank you very much, Congressman. My fellow Members, Mrs Bernadett Szél, we will continue our work, if you will allow us. A separate debate will be held later, preferably not like this. Dear Parliament, We will now continue with the speeches in the normal time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP Group.
u2019-12-10-414	I'm sorry, I wanted to press two minutes too, excuse me, Mr. President, because I wanted to fix it here, Gergely Arató...
u2019-12-10-415	Now...
u2019-12-10-416	... orbitalstofstupidity now must I say this [[Gergely Harvesto: Alas, alas, alas!]] He said nothing happened at the József Soldier Theatre. [[Péter Ungár: That's not what he said! Intercoms from the opposition.]] He said it wasn't really worth talking about, it's actually nothing, he's been playing it off... [[Zsolt Gréczy: That's not what he said! Gergely Harvesto: That's not what I said! I didn't fuck it up! Peter Ungár: He didn't say that either!]] ... helegated the case that took place at the József Soldier Theatre. [[Gergely Harvesto: That wasn't it either!]] When were they separated from what happened at the József Theatre? When they demanded it, anyway... [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] Right, Ferenc Gyurcsány... (Intercoms from the opposition. ) Ferenc Gyurcsány confessed the other day that he was in charge of the capital, in an interview by accident, perhaps a more sober moment... [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] He had a more sober moment. [[Gergely Harvest, Oliver, it's weak.]] [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] Right, Ferenc Gyurcsány... (Intercoms from the opposition. ) Ferenc Gyurcsány confessed the other day that he was in charge of the capital, in an interview by accident, may be a more sober moment... (Gergely Arató intervenes.) He had a more sober moment (Gergely Arató: Ajnye-jnye, Oliver, it's weak!) And then he told me that he was running the capital. When did Gergely Christmas be asked to act immediately because of what happened at the József Theatre? You didn't ask him to do that. (Intercoms from the opposition. ) And they're accusing us, accusing us of partiality. We also condemn the fact that if it's true, what's going on in the press, what happened in the New Theatre. [[Péter Ungár: We heard this sentence for the first time! No one's ever said that before!]] [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] He had a more sober moment (Gergely Arató: Ajnye-jnye, Oliver, it's weak!) And then he told me that he was running the capital. When did Gergely Christmas be asked to act immediately because of what happened at the József Theatre? You didn't ask him to do that. (Intercoms from the opposition. ) And they're accusing us, accusing us of partiality. We also condemn the fact that if what is true in the press is what happened in the New Theatre (Ungár Péter: We heard this sentence for the first time! No one's ever said that before! We also demand the investigation (Gergely Arató intervenes.) And in the same way we want the two theaters and the two cases to be treated in the same way, there should be no double standards. Because it's Gy. Erzsébet Németh of the Soldier Theatre says that the case is closed [[Zsolt Gréczy: They started the investigation themselves!]] [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] Right, Ferenc Gyurcsány... (Intercoms from the opposition. ) Ferenc Gyurcsány confessed the other day that he was in charge of the capital, in an interview by accident, may be a more sober moment... (Gergely Arató intervenes.) He had a more sober moment (Gergely Arató: Ajnye-jnye, Oliver, it's weak!) And then he told me that he was running the capital. When did Gergely Christmas be asked to act immediately because of what happened at the József Theatre? You didn't ask him to do that. (Intercoms from the opposition. ) And they're accusing us, accusing us of partiality. We also condemn the fact that if what is true in the press is what happened in the New Theatre (Ungár Péter: We heard this sentence for the first time! No one's ever said that before! We also demand the investigation (Gergely Arató intervenes.) And in the same way we want the two theaters and the two cases to be treated in the same way, there should be no double standards. Because it's Gy. Erzsébet Németh of the Soldier Theatre says that the case is closed (Zsolt Gréczy: They themselves initiated the investigation!) And here he's starting an investigation. That's the problem. (Intercoms from the opposition. ) That is the problem, that you are covering for me, and once you have not heard this question in your speeches, there is no accident that this question has come up in your speeches, you are covering for those people. [[Krisztina Hohn: But who's covering for who? Gergely Harvesto: No, it's not true!]] The people who covered this up at the József Soldier Theatre. And none of them have been able to answer so far that what is not a political appointment is that Gergely Christmas appoints these theatre directors, and what makes it a political appointment if Miklós Kásler, Minister of Culture, appoints him. What's the difference? [[Péter Ungár: One was chosen and the other was appointed!]] Why do they say Christmas... [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] Now it is said that very large independent theatres, because Gergely Christmas appoints a huge independence, because Gergely Christmas oversees that if the minister responsible for culture, then he has no independence, that is dictatorship. (Intercoms from the opposition. ) This is the typical double standard found on the balliberal side. I just want to say to my fellow Member Balczó that these theaters are state- and localized, the Catholic Church is an independent organization, let us not confuse it. Thank you. [[Zoltán Balczó: But the state supports it! Gergely Harvester: Better than his own!]]
u2019-12-10-417	Mr President, I would like to inform you that this was not a two-minute speech, so if you wish to continue, you can do so. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Thank you.]] Thank you very much, that was a speech in a normal time frame. Here comes Congresswoman Zita Gurmai.
u2019-12-10-418	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I can say that we are now slowly discussing this law under cover of night, and I think that the Orbán government's cultural strategy is clear: this is a full-scale attack. They'd like to make everything disappear, grind it up, hold a mirror in front of the building Fidesz party state. That's why they eliminated Népszabadság with an Austrian media stróman, which is why there are bans in the public media about artists who can never appear there, and that's why they want to control the theatres manually. Do you know the path you're on? Do you know it happens in dictatorships like this? Of course they do! That's why they've been cynically trying to explain this long secret bill of law to a harassment case. You know that there is no other explanation for what you're doing, except for the open arrogance of power. If the harassment case is not just an excuse, then I ask Máté Kocsis: because of the pedophile cases, when will Fidesz review his relationship with the church? Of course, we know what this is all about: Fidesz lost the election in many settlements on 13 October, and now they are trying to take revenge and break the will of the people voting against Fidesz. They want to make it impossible for people to think freely and express their opinions. That's why they want to make the theaters manual so that the Fidesz people can tell us which pieces can be presented and which ones can't be presented. But culture doesn't belong to politicians, it belongs to people. This was the last one in Hungary by the one-party system that people rejected. Calm down, they'll do the same to you, in the theatre language: the end game is near. Fidesz, who clings to his power, will disappear, and no one will applaud him. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the lines of DK, LMP, MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2019-12-10-419	Dear Parliament, Mr Zsolt Gréczy, Democratic Coalition, will now take the floor. Here you go.
u2019-12-10-420	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, There are a lot of problems with this law. One of the problems is, why is that now? What's the need? [[Krisztina Hohn: Why is it so urgent?!]] There was a working system of culture funding. If the National Cultural Fund worked, why did the first version include the abolition of the entire college system? Then, after the first few hours or a day or two of elemental indignation, they suddenly change it and get out of it. No one understands the need for this bill, even from the point of view that no one ever discussed it with the actors of culture. No one sat down with the leaders of the theatres, and I am talking not only about the theatres in Budapest, but also about the leaders of the rural theatres and the theatres. There is a lack of meaningful dialogue in all of this. If anyone wants to do anything about culture in general, they should know it's an extremely sensitive area. A lot of people like to go to the theater, a lot of people want to read books, and of course I'm going to go to the outrageous attack that was launched against the publishers, but this, what you have done in connection with the submission of the law, is simply a crime against culture and a crime against freedom of art. It is not normal either, and several of my fellow Members have already indicated that at night, when virtually no one else is watching parliamentary mediation, we are discussing the freedom of culture. In itself, it is completely unworthy. What the Secretary of State says is that they have received letters of thanks, how well the tao worked, well, I would add that Pál Ilku also received letters of thanks, and Imre Pozsgay, whom László Kövér would now have thought to be a fantastic President of the Republic, everyone has sent them his letter of thanks, his book, and the others, theatres, writers and so on, and the rest of it does not have to pass out that someone will receive a letter of thanks of this type, it may not be a sign of respect, it may also be a sign of fear that I can present my work next time, arrange or publish the book that I have created. The government's setting conditions, simply imposing conditions, and I'm only going to point out one aspect of this which is particularly outrageous. The Dürrenmatt drama, called the visit of the old lady, reminds me of the situation where there is a community, let's call it a theater in this case, and someone, a stranger, arrives there and tells you to stop loving the mayor, see the director who ran the theatre, and I'm buying you for it. That's what happens in this drama. And that's what's happening right now. He wants to lose the company to the principals, that's the law. The directors will be in a vulnerable position, because what will happen is that the government will tell you that there is money only if you agree with me, and if that is the case, and will say that I will give you a few hundred million forints to operate, but in return I do not want this director, but I want another, the company and the director will be in conflict with each other immediately, because it will be in a different interest: the company will be in the interest of ensuring a living, a family, and it will also be in the future, not losing its job, either in Budapest or in the countryside, and it will immediately confront an argument that the director represents, let us say, about artistic freedom and that he will be able to put together the repertoire. You're using this bill to play directors and companies against each other. [[21.30]] One serious problem is that it is not the solution that you say from now on that what the government has money in will then decide who is playing. With this power, and there were signs of this, will Viktor Orbán put together the Hungarian football team? He's gonna decide who's gonna be the filter, and who's gonna be the right-hand runner? Or who's protecting you? So it is quite amazing what you would like to achieve for yourself in this matter. I must also address what is threatening the publishers. So we're not just talking about theaters, we're talking about publishing. Now they're keeping it exactly that they're asking the publishers for personal information about their works that doesn't belong quite simply to the state. You also want to specify according to the new law the number of copies of the volumes, the publishers should inform the National Széchényi Library handling the copies of the books about the personal data, contact details of writers, rightholders and when the contracts relating to the publishers and their works expire. What do you think you're doing? What does it have to do with you, government representatives, or any government official who wrote what kind of novel, how many copies does it appear, whether it's profitable or loss-making, where does it live? What's going to happen is that one of these fidesz tabloids will be given his address, and then protests will be held there, because he didn't remember, say, Viktor Orbán's kingdom well enough, and, say, placed sentences in his novel, or in his poem, did he use rhymes that didn't please the current power? The reason why you are concerned about what you represent in this case is because business secrets come to the state by competing with private publishers through individual companies. Thus, even the market is distorted, not only does it distort creative freedom, but it also distorts the market. It is no coincidence that the Association of Hungarian Publishers and Publishers strongly protests against this proposal. But the biggest problem, after all, is that what you are doing is a conscious country-destroying activity that started in 2010, and your boss was actually terrified of what happened on October 13th, and now he's trying to speed up the process of invading the country. What you've been trying to do nicely, Hungarian Academy of Sciences, slave law, we'll now tell the municipalities what business tax can be spent on, then blackmailing the capital by saying that if there is no athletic stadium, there are no 50 billion health services, while that athletic stadium will cost 2.5 times as much as the 50 billion they bring up as an extra resource to health in the entire capital. It is now that culture must be occupied at the moment, because if the sinful city, the population of Budapest, has decided and the vast majority have decided not to ask for your rule, then they will try to buy the souls and blackmail the people. Then don't be allowed to read books, so don't be free to eat culture. You have no other purpose than to invade the country, and now you want to invade the brains. The Democratic Coalition, of course, objects to this. And when they talk about how much more has been spent on culture, for example, they do not indicate that a significant part of this is the Liget project. So it does not necessarily go to culture, but it goes to various investments in construction, which are highly controversial that they will ever be profitable or useful to the country, or they simply wanted to help certain financial circles or construction companies in this matter. Remember, my fellow Members, fellow Members of the Fidesz and fellow Members of the KDNP, sooner or later this will all have to be accounted for. So you must decide how long you will accompany Viktor Orbán on this journey. So there will be a moment when the country will actually be fed up. Yesterday, the police estimated 13 thousand, according to Origo, a few hundred. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: The Index says 2 million!]] The police... No, that's your guy, Kálmán Rákay, who says $2 million. [[Intervention from opposition lines: Philip.]] His name is Kálmán, Philip is an artist's name, yes, by the way, Kálmán. [[Depreciation in opposition ranks.]] I regret that the Parliamentary record will now report on this, because certain unworthy people should not be brought here, especially unworthy people. So, I'm telling you, yesterday the police estimated 13 thousand people at this protest. Do not get lost, neither Budapest nor the culturally loving people of the country, what you are doing will not be accepted, and we will not allow it, and by every means and every means possible, we will prevent you from abducting the souls, telling them what books to read, who to be the theatre directors, what to present, because this is totally unacceptable. Invading culture is such a crime that, after a change of government, their conscience will have to be accounted for. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-10-421	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2019-12-10-422	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, This has been going on for a long time, but I would like to respond immediately to the Secretary of State. I was curiously listening to his high-level speech on the pulpit, his expose, and I took notes of the thoughts. Mr Secretary of State said that the aim was to strengthen and preserve national culture; he spoke about strengthening and preserving national identity; he spoke about raising the issue of culture into a national strategic dimension. The only question I have come up with, Mr Secretary, is how this bill fits into this line. So you are talking about very high-level, long-term plans, but we do not really see it, and I feel from the speech of my fellow Members that no one understands how this bill has come here with such a schedule. The next question is that you have discussed this with others, Mr Secretary of State, because when, on Monday, about an hour and a half after you presented this proposal, there were quite a number of pro-government representatives here, I asked them to raise their hands on how many people had read this bill, and two Members came forward, namely one Secretary of State and one Member. So you are not really aware that the implementation of this ambitious strategic vision is entering a new phase by arguing on Monday at 8:57 or 58 minutes. [[László Varju: Before the agenda!]] That's right, I asked before the agenda, and at the time, the pro-government representatives weren't really in the picture. I also do not understand why, if we are talking about such long-term visions and long-term strategic goals, then why did we have to make this presentation and prepare so secretly, why practically all stakeholders had to be excluded from the preparation of this. There is no problem in itself with what is the preservation of national identity, I am also a strongly national commitment Member, but the problem is that, in recent years, it has been very often revealed that you think quite differently from the real meaning of the word. They've proven that in a lot of ways. But here, in particular, on the subject of culture, we can clearly say that what you think of as a national culture is a perceived culture that is a culture of a particular circle and that is what you want to spread now. A lot of people said that, and I don't want to repeat that. However, I would like to reiterate, Mr Secretary, that culture is an area where politics has no business. I look at Congressman Nacsa, who participates in this debate with such young communist enthusiasm [[Defiance from opposition ranks.]] Sometimes he is stunned, sometimes smiling, that he does not remember the times when the Council system was in place. That's the honesty you can see. By the way, I saw honesty in Mr. Congressman; when Vice-President Hiller spoke, I saw the fear of you, my fellow Member. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Interests!]] and other pro-government fellow Members, and it was very telling. I think it's definitely positive that it still contains traces of feelings [[Defiance.]] Which makes you at least a little more comfortable during such a talk of justice and put your tablet down a little bit and pay attention to it. That was definitely important. The name of Peter Gothár was mentioned. Here in the proposal, if I recall correctly, it was not a matter of a financial nature, so this particular case was included in this proposal in this way. When it comes to these proposals, I think that all my fellow Members here have made it very clear that they condemn these cases. [[Krisztina Hohn: That's right!]] If you want to take substantial steps on this issue, I would like to address one question to some of the four or five pro-government representatives that yesterday, with opposition colleagues, we tabled a proposal to ratify the Istanbul Convention: violence against women, domestic violence: will you accept it, fellow Members? Congressman Nacsa, Istanbul Convention, will you accept my fellow Member? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Gender Convention?]] It is an extremely important, precisely to achieve this goal, the Council of Europe Convention. [[21.40]] My fellow Member, will you support the inclusion and adoption of this proposal? Don't make me say who you're with and who you're supporting if you don't. Obviously, I don't use such tools. But we appreciate what's happened here in the last few weeks, these past few days. By the way, it has been proven by you over long and long years, and in recent weeks, and even today that, with this communist pace, practically everything is embarrassed here in the legislative process, no meaningful consultation, no negotiation with stakeholders, no prior consultation is considered important. I do not want to repeat my fellow Members about what has been pushed through here in recent months, but what has happened only today: today you voted four members of the Fidesz group for the Media Council, the Act on the Status of Members has been amended, practically restricting Members' working opportunities, radically amending the house rules. This is only their performance today, but in recent times, we can see that after the municipal election defeat, you will bring to Parliament in a series of legislative proposals that will evacuate and weaken the local government. This is a very, very bad reaction, my fellow Members, that should not have moved in this direction; this is not how people, the Hungarian voters, should have interpreted their message on 13 October. And you started working on a proposal in the government's sorcery kitchen, which had been leaked by accident, and there was indeed a polemic in the press, and it was very intensely upsetting public life. Your reaction was very interesting. So they sensed that 50,000 people signed a petition to support independent culture here in a few days, and then yesterday there was a very serious protest, and we were there, and there were a lot of people, and now I don't know if there were 13 thousand, but there were very, very many people, we couldn't get near the stage. Yeah, I think the 13,000 estimate could be realistic. But obviously you have already tabled this proposal, and I think you have sensed that here, very, very suddenly, you have now made great progress in the campaign that many of my fellow Members have set out here. In particular, you have received a very serious slap, and we can say that you seem to have made a partial withdrawal, but I think a lot of people think so, and a lot of people are right to assume that you have made a tactical retreat, so now you've taken a lot of things out of this prepared bill, but no one really thinks that, knowing you, these aggravating elements will not come back. I think that's what everyone's counting on. They think they're gonna get a little emotional, and then everyone's gonna look a little different, and then they're gonna throw some new rubber bone into the legislation, like they usually do, and then they're gonna sneak back the elements that you still feel you need. Well, pretty much everything has been said that, come on, and all kinds of opposition accusations have been unfounded, which we have formulated, but what I do not understand is that you, too, Secretary of State, have sent back a message that the opposition is arguing on the basis of press reports. Well, then why didn't you arrange it? ! Really, why did you have to do this in this kind of way, in style, at the last minute, on Monday, the last week of the session? If there had been a substantive discussion on this, the opposition would not have expressed any criticisms or fears that you considered unfounded. Try to answer that, Mr. Secretary. I can see you're doing your best to take notes, and I'm sure you'll give us all the answers we need. I was just talking about how this bill was presented in a depraved way, and how this symbolizes your perception of power and exercise of power, and what exactly is wrong with this bill, indeed, said the President of the Committee on Culture, Mr Pósán; here, indeed, the institutional leaders, the coercion, the possibility of appointing the head of the institution, that is the essence of it. Let me point out, Mr Pósán, that I am glad that you are here as Chairman of the Cultural Committee, less so that, as chairman of the committee responsible, you can say that you have succeeded in a party policy splash or you have reached that point in the first speech where you spoke with the greatest momentum about who you were following on the Gyurcsányi road. I think it is unworthy, but it is symbolic that the Fidesz president of the Cultural Committee has so much of his speech. I do not wish to multiply the word for a long time, but I would like to thank everyone who has stood bravely in this matter. I think it was a real, very, very serious slap for the government or for the government side, this slap you just felt, it was visible from this partial tactical retreat. I would like to thank everyone in this case, artists, public figures and the very, very many people who signed this particular petition and who were at the protest yesterday. But that was made up yesterday, and it was also formulated in the public statements that, here, it seems that we have managed to get a serious slap in the hand of the government, a little bit, you might say, in the short term at least, but this fight is certainly not over, so I think that a lot of us, a lot of us, will have a lot of work to do with this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-10-423	Thank you. Dear Parliament, A speech will be made by Mr Tamás Mellar, Member of the Dialogue Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-12-10-424	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Mr. Secretary. I'm sorry, I'm obviously going to repeat some of the things that I've been told before, but I'm going to have to, too, in order to give these things a boost. I would like to start by saying in his speech that all institutions that create value will receive proper support, and I am very happy to say so, but the question of who will tell us what is value is immediately arose, so it is very important to know what we consider value. Cultural values are obviously important in culture, and experts can say that, certainly in the short term and in the longer term, it is obviously the audience who consumes culture. So when we are talking about the need for a national culture strategy, obviously we should not be looking at a political issue here, but rather a professional and policy issue. My fellow Members have already said that there is a 50-hour debate on this whole legislative amendment or bill, while, if it is a matter of strategic importance, it would obviously have had to be prepared in several months. I think that a cultural round table should have been established, where left-wing, right-wing experts would have been invited, and in a few months they would have developed a concept, a concept that is consensual, after which a social debate should have been held with the stakeholders, the people working in culture, and then, more broadly, a stronger social debate would have been brought into the House, and then it would have been possible to debate this whole issue in substance. I am now in the unfortunate situation of having to give my opinion on this bill, me, the macro-Economist. I do not know about cultural matters, but I must, because there is nothing else, and I understand what my fellow Members have said here, that it is now time to stand up and say that we do not agree to this, we do not give our consent to this, because we think that culture is worth more, and artistic freedom in itself is a self-value and real values can only be created if the profession is able to function freely. So this is what I think the most important thing is that we are in such an emergency situation, and a really professional issue has actually become a political issue. It has also been said here before, and L. Simon László said that we are false, because no one wants to eliminate the National Cultural Fund, and this is not the case, but Mr. State Secretary spoke about the establishment of a National Cultural Council. It occurred to me that if this competence is properly defined, so it is defined, what this looks like compared to the National Cultural Fund, and what kind of cooperation or non-cooperation will be between the two. My fellow Members have already said that, indeed, there is a very high risk that the National Cultural Fund will not be abolished, but they will certainly slowly start to empty its contents and move it to the National Cultural Council, which, of course, will be filled with people of their own. And the next question is one of the most important questions: funding, and now let me tell you a good news: there is one thing that I agreed with L. Simon László, who said that it was very right that the Tao was withdrawn and that the Tao was abolished. I also think that this was a very appropriate thing, but it would have been appropriate to eliminate it in general, because Tao is public money, and if it is public money, then obviously it must be distributed to the proper public, let us say, within the budget, because this is how public money should be managed. [[21.50]] With regard to funding, the question arose, the terrible simple thing that you said in the village is that the person who pays the musician also says the song, and therefore, if the state finances the operation of a given theatre, he will obviously tell you who will be the leader and tell you how to do it. However, I do not think that is the case, since this is a matter of public money. But even if it wasn't public money, it wouldn't be like that. But let me give you a little bit of anecdote on this one. Rockefeller gave Harvard University an adequate amount of money. And when they started talking to the president, Rockefeller suggested, Mr President, that we should sit down and discuss the division of labour, who will decide on what issues. Well, the president of Harvard said that Mr. Rockefeller, we have nothing to discuss: you give me the money, and I run the university, this division of labor. Why? Because I know how to run a university, and you know how to make money. Now, obviously, in this situation, the government and cultural leadership are not Rockefeller, so they won't agree to let him stay out of it, because Rockefeller has agreed to this, and Harvard has become one of the best universities in the world. However, the situation is even more serious, because it is not just about state money, but rather about the fact that the government has systematically and increasingly reduced the funding of municipalities in recent years. This initiated a process in which the tasks of the municipalities, the secondary schools, and then hospitals, were taken step by step, and now the next step is intended for public transport, because the first step is that they will prove that they are not able to finance public transport, and therefore they will nationalise it and otherwise play the same in relation to theatres. And they're pretending it's about the fact that these damn municipalities don't care about culture, so they don't spend enough money on it. But let's see, Budapest produces more than 40% of the country's GDP. Let's look at the tax content of a unit of GDP and see how much of this goes to the Municipality of Budapest or to the municipalities of Budapest! And then we can see that it's disproportionately less. So it's not a story that they don't want to finance culture, it's that they've been deprived of funding resources, anyway, so that they're at the mercy of the government, so that the government can have a say in this matter. So this is where the thing that a number of people have also said is that after October 13, the government cannot accept defeat, and therefore, at an accelerated pace, it begins to empty the municipalities so that they have less and less funding and less decision-making in their hands, so that the government will in fact become entirely formal, and that all power to the Soviets and all power to the Prime Minister and all power to the government. But I think that this is not going to work, and with these steps, the government and Fidesz, you are making more and more enemies for yourself, more and more people who have been sympathetic to you so far, but you see that they cannot continue their everyday lives, and that they are not able to live out their profession, their professionalism properly, and that is why more and more people are going to realize that this government has to go, because within this framework you cannot build a normal society and, of course, you cannot create a normal cultural life within it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-12-10-425	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman János Volner has applied for a speech, an independent Member. I would like to inform the Member that there are a total of eight minutes available for independent Members, both of whom have made themselves known. You have the floor.
u2019-12-10-426	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Unlike other opposition Members who have spoken so far, I would like to express my opinion from a right-wing perspective on the bill that we have just received. In the first place, Viktor Orbán talked about his own government cycle in Tusványos, dividing his own government cycle into three main cycles, trying to regain political self-determination at the country in his first government cycle, trying to regain economic self-determination during his second government cycle, and in his third political cycle he wanted to fight the cultural struggle. Officially, this was the political strategy outlined by Viktor Orbán, which marked three different government cycles individually. Well, first of all, what I'd like to say is that Fidesz shouldn't have missed two cycles by starting a culture fight. Then, gentlemen, if you had already started a culture fight in 2010, and, for example, you would have included patriotic education in the National Basics, as we suggested at the time as a better man, and what Jobbik has now unfortunately forgotten, there would not have been a case where pro-government politicians start shaking with full pants when they mention the name of Mihály Takó. Gentlemen, this is cowardice! Well, they're acting like first-prom girls in tulle suits about culture. It should have been filled, if the right-wing and national markers had already been secured, they would have felt this valid for themselves, they would have had to fill this thing with content. It should have been filled with content, and it should have been done that the National Basic Teaching Plan includes patriotic education, and then there would be no such surprise for the Fidesz politicians when he talks to the Hungaricum teacher at Corvinus University about the fact that between 15 and 21 percent of young people have a sense of Hungarian identity, and Hungarian youth, at least a significant part of them, have no national affiliation at all. This is a direct way for the liberal climate generation to effectively channel young people into their own mills. In the same way, when we talk about economics education as a neoliberal approach and it succeeds in passing it on, this can also be done because the government had no intention of fighting culture in this area as well, and has not done anything in the world in this area. And I would add that, if you want to see how much mercy the liberal side has always had on national affairs, then, ladies and gentlemen, think of the fact that there are only two of those metropolitan theatres, one of which is the Chalomist Gábor Thalia. [[Péter Ungár: What is a tragedy!]] The other is György Dörner's New Theatre, which is roughly right-wing and national. But it is already known that Gergely Christmas, who, by the way, is considered to be extremely independent politically, will execute the New Theatre and execute György Dörner. And you're gonna let that happen because you're full of pants and you don't dare fight the culture fight. Ladies and gentlemen. They should realize in their third consecutive government cycle that there is no mercy on the liberal side against national and right-wing institutions, they will be killed at the first opportunity. That's what one of his first statements to Gergely Christmas was about. [[Moray from the opposition.]] We should learn from this that we should not do the same as they do, but we should simply protect our own people, those who are right-wing, those who are national, those who can survive, because that is what life is all about now. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-10-427	Thank you. Dear Parliament, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. [[Interjections, publicity in the opposition's ranks.]] I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, DK. Here you go.
u2019-12-10-428	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. No one wants to execute George Dörner, no one wants to kill him. And I also believe that if I consider all the theatres to be national theatres, because they all represent national culture, but I am talking about national theatres according to your understanding, and you consider the New Theatre to be a national theatre on this basis, then György Dörner may be able to make a better theatre. For example, I could certainly name actors and directors who wouldn't run a tea room with a quarter house. [[22.00]] Otherwise, this matter must be corrected, it has now been said several times, as if the parties of the opposition were apologizing to Peter Gothár. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right.]] It's not like that. There is a significant difference between the New Theatre story and the Theatre story of József Katona. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Nothing!]] But there's a significant difference. One significant difference is that the Soldier József Theatre itself announced the problem. [[L. Simon László: Come on! Nacsa Lőrinc: Come on! You don't believe that.]] He started an investigation, and then he removed the guilty director, and then he was removed by the University of Theatre and Film Arts. On the other hand, what happened in the New Theatre story? György Dörner hung up on me first, he didn't even say Merry Christmas. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] Then the attacked actor said that this was a liberal attack on him, and it was all about the fact that they wanted to give Robert Alföldi the New Theatre, who, by the way, Robert Alföldi never applied to the New Theatre in life or even applied for any role as director of the theatre. So there's a significant difference. One already had personal consequences and the other one was a 2016 case, whose investigation is fortunately now Gy. Deputy Mayor Erzsébet Németh, if the New Theatre has not completed it, he initiated the investigation. So I think it's time to get to the bottom of this. Thank you.
u2019-12-10-429	Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for a further two-minute speech, once again, there will be speeches by Members within the normal timeframe. I give the floor to Congressman L. Simon László, Fidesz Group.
u2019-12-10-430	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, After all, it was as I said at the beginning that we were not going to argue about what was in the bill. My fellow Member, Mr Gréczy, gave a long discussion on the alleged government's intention to regulate publishing. I went through the bill again, and I even went to Mr. Secretary of State. Neither in this bill nor in the previous version that was published to the press was there any mention of this type of reorganisation of publishing. [[Zsolt Gréczy: This is a confession.]] I don't know what my fellow Member Gréczy means as a confession. I admit that what I read in the bill, I didn't see the attempt to reorganize the publishing process. So that is what I can tell you, my fellow Member, that there is no confession in this. But let us take a look at the whole issue of publishing, my honourable fellow Member. In Hungary, I have published a number of books. I have worked for 15 years in publishing, and I have not only worked for 15 years in publishing, but, as head of the National Cultural Fund, I have been looking closely at the funding system for publishing. At the same time, I was president of Miszje, the Hungarian Literary Authors' Legal Protection Association. I'm a member of Artisjus, and I'm a member of MASRE, so I'm also a member of the Reprographic Association. Every author in each organization, Artisjus and MASZRE is any writer who is also a member of Artisjus and a member of MASZRE, everyone... [[Zsolt Gréczy: Me too! Gergely Arató: Congressman Gréczy, too.]] Then you know very well, my fellow Member, that it is in everyone's interest to provide all the data relating to your book, and even to encourage publishers to access their royalties. In addition, the Association of Hungarian Publishers and Publishers produces statistics every year. The statistics show all the data of each book, including the specific number of copies, and, not least, the publishers receive an invoice from the printers, and the invoice must indicate the copy number and otherwise the VAT must be paid. So you are acting as if we were talking about some classified data, and which, by the way, are the publishers themselves, the professional organisations themselves, and the authorities themselves would not be able to see right now, and not everyone would be in the interest of transparency. I think that we should not talk about things that do not belong here at all, and which have no basis at all, my honourable fellow Member. You're saying that the money spent on building museums, so the money spent on the Liget project is not actually the money for culture, because it's a suspicious real estate transaction. [[Zsolt Gréczy: I didn't say that!]] That is what he said, said, and even said, my fellow Member, that it is even a question of whether these will ever be repaid. I'm sorry, but what kind of culture is your question about? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Business!]] Are hospitals ever gonna pay off? They're gonna pay back, really? Will school buildings ever pay off? Then museums will pay off, too, my honourable fellow Member, because if we take return not only in a material sense, then building a museum for the nation and for the future is a strategic issue. What do you mean, a museum's gonna pay off? It's not a business issue. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Everything is for DK!]] but it is a fundamental issue of national strategy to build libraries, build cultural houses, build museums, renovate them, increase appropriate collections, create appropriate collections, and increase our collections, and provide sufficient resources for scientific exploration and exhibitions. It's pointless to talk about payback here. [[Noise in opposition benches.]] But I would like to go back to the problem that I could not talk about at the beginning in the speaker's speech that this bill also deals with a very important area, cultural heritage protection. And in the area of cultural heritage, it seeks to transform the tax system. Once again, I think we should go even further and encourage private owners of monuments to renovate monuments with all sorts of incentives. Today, the owners of the monuments are in a particularly difficult situation in Hungary. In fact, the status of monuments reduces value, the possibility of placing on the market to a large extent, so I think it is entirely legitimate that, in addition to the historic applications of the National Cultural Fund, in addition to those of the Prime Minister's Office, in addition to the applications of the EMMI for the renovation of monuments, and in addition to certain European Union programmes, you should also see the world heritage proposals with other incentives to encourage the owners of monuments to renovate their monuments; to keep their monuments in good shape, to make it worthwhile to buy monuments. I must say that, in the absence of these incentives, the national monument will continue to deteriorate, it will continue to perish. My fellow Member, Zita Gurmai, says that culture does not belong to politicians, but to people. I find this sentence difficult to interpret, Congresswoman. I always listen to you with great, great respect, and I think you're an excellent man, so if you're an excellent man, I don't think you're disqualified as a politician. So culture also belongs to politicians. Culture belongs to all of us, not just those who otherwise create culture on a daily basis or create artistic values. Culture belongs to all of us. And, of course, we politicians are partly cultural consumers and, in part, we can be the creators of cultural life. That is why such excellent people sat in this Parliament only in the period after the change of regime, like Iván Darvas in the ranks of SZDSZ, the excellent actor, Dénes Gulyás in our ranks, the excellent opera singer, and more. Or Pécsi Ildikó, also an excellent actor, or also in the ranks of MSZP Ferenc Kósa, the fantastic film director, and we could add to the list of politicians who have created works in artistic life. So I think that we should not try to think in categories like politicians who are stupid to culture, and people who, by the way, alone have the right to express their views on culture. And I can only tell my colleague Mellar that there is not always a consensus. There is no such thing as a large number of people meeting and reaching consensus after many months of negotiations. If consensus could be reached in everything, Parliamentarianism could, in fact, be extinguished. We shouldn't be an opposition, we shouldn't be a governing party, we should be some big community council, but thanks to God, we're over this period, and we're not asking for it. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, I'm asking you to try to stick to the bill and talk about the bill. One more: My fellow Member, László Keresztes, was very good, he asked us how many of us read the bill from the pro-government lines before the submission. [[Péter Ungár: After that!]] He asked how many of us had read it, and on Monday morning he asked the Members how many had read it. [[22.10]] Please, this is a government proposal, the government will draw up a bill, submit it to Parliament, and we will discuss it in Parliament. By the way, how many of us are dealing with this issue is a good indicator of how many of us are staying here at this late-night hour. Unfortunately, relatively few Members are interested in this subject, even though I think it is very important. [[Krisztina Hohn: Thank you!]] But I would like to say once again that everything we are discussing here tonight is very far from the text of the bill. You have made accusations that are not in the bill and that are not coming from the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-10-431	Thank you, Congressman. I also welcome my fellow Members. I give the floor to Congressman László Varga.
u2019-12-10-432	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to proceed with a statement by my fellow Member, Mr L. Simon. He told Tamás Mellár that there are times when there is no consensus for months, and if there is no consensus, then these questions must be decided somehow. Well, they haven't checked here for months, that's what I'd like to say. Monday morning was the submission of this legislative proposal, this package, no one has been consulted, especially with the stakeholders; I think this is completely unacceptable. And I think that the debate on this issue at 10:10 p.m. this evening was just when my speech took place, not in the interest of ensuring widespread publicity. I think we have heard a lot of professional speeches, István Hiller, Tamás Mellár, among others, but also many others who have approached from a different perspective what is lying on the table and why it is lying on the table. I'd like to talk a little bit about what happens year after year here in the Parliament in December. We see that, on the last sitting in December, unacceptable proposals with huge social conflicts from government or pro-government representatives are always being pushed through Parliament, often taking advantage of the possibility of exceptional proceedings, abusing them in an outrageous way in the sea of night debates, excluding publicity; this is what is happening, so you accept proposals from year to year. This happened when the right to strike was restricted, it was accepted at night, even the push of the button occurred at night, I remember. This is what happened when the slave law was forced through the House. This has happened every time in December they expect, yes, there will be some discontent, but with the Christmas season it will pass, and then everyone will forget what happened. In addition, the circumstances of the proposal are completely incomprehensible here, as Mr Secretary of State acknowledged in the Expo that they had been preparing for this for months, and even started the preparation of this proposal on the basis of a very old idea. I would ask Tamás Jordán, however, that this is how he imagined it when he first spoke to you here about plans to transform cultural life. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] Yes, yesterday he was at the protest on this, and there he was speaking, and I think it would also be worth listening to the Honourable Secretary of State. I therefore think that this is a proposal that is completely unacceptable and is being pushed through the House under unworthy conditions. There was such a subvite within this debate, which was about the appointment of the theatre directors, that the state would give money while expecting certain things. I would like to stress that this legislative package or this proposal is also linked to a number of other proposals that we have discussed in recent weeks, and there is a lack of role for you: the state has no money. It is that people pay taxes, companies engage in economic activities in this country, they continue to pay taxes, they have revenues from the use of local governments, for example, the state's assets. From this, there is obviously a source of wealth and wealth for the municipalities, the opportunity to organize the lives of the people, and of course the state has the opportunity. There is a ratio in this, and obviously, with the adoption of the central budget, the Parliament decides what funds are intended for, and here in the common thinking there is a subsystem, the municipal sub-scheme. Local governments have tasks, mandatory tasks and voluntary tasks, and I see that over the last nine years the share of tasks and the resources needed for them has been increasingly overshadowed, and the municipalities are increasingly managing from fewer and fewer sources. It is true that tasks have been avoided from the municipalities, but these tasks, which have been and, yes, may be said, are not mandatory to maintain theatres, but I think that in a diverse cultural life, for example, a mission from a country county seat, which is perhaps more than a mandatory task, since these rural municipalities also maintain centuries of institutions. As a representative of Miskolc, the maintenance of the Miskolc National Theatre on the part of Miskolc County is also a cultural mission that goes beyond the limits of the Miskolc municipality, which goes beyond the Borsod county, specifically to maintain this prestigious and long-standing institution. So the problem is that the municipalities are already forced to farm from a narrow source. The problem is that on 13 October there was an election result that you do not seem to accept. I have been hoping for two or three weeks that there have been such speeches that the elected opposition mayors, representatives in the municipalities can expect a constructive, fair attitude for the benefit of all of us and the country as a whole, in order to ensure the success of these settlements. Compared to this, I see that after two or three weeks of idyllic appearances, the remainder of the construction administration was taken from the local authorities, and then the government offices know what is being built and how, and by redesigning the legislation on local business tax, they opened the way to push the financing of public transport to the local authorities. And here is another proposal, which is about, among other things, here, I think it was my fellow Member Pósán who practically spoke of nothing but the appointment of theatre directors, thus acknowledging that this proposal is basically about this issue: the state is giving money, the government is giving money to maintain the individual municipal theatres if these maintainers give a say in the appointment of theatre directors. I note that people decided somehow on 13 October that the remainder of the construction administration was in the municipalities, that public transport was supported with great resources by the state, and that, by the way, the theatre directors were obviously elected locally by local communities to respect the cultural autonomy of local theatres. You are disrupting this system, disrupting the task of the municipalities, disrupting the system of resources needed to do so on several points. This is, in my view, an unacceptable de facto veto right for the Minister and the Ministry, a de facto veto right. It is very clear: it is indeed necessary to agree, because otherwise money will not be given if it is not mentioned in this contract, which must be concluded with the maintainers, where appropriate with the municipality of Miskolc, for example the question of the appointment of theatre directors. It's a de facto veto right, it can be misinterpreted, it's clear even if they've tried so gently to put it this way. I would like to say that the destruction of the municipal system is a nine-year process, and it would be good to finish it. So I think there are four things to do. Give the municipalities the necessary resources to carry out their duties, because the fact that you can control certain resources is the result of a parliamentary election, but it can be done differently. Stop rearranging this affair, you're not authorized to do this. [[22.20]] Second, respect the autonomy of Hungarian cultural life. Third, respect the outcome of the 13 October elections. And fourth of all, I ask you to withdraw this proposal. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2019-12-10-433	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2019-12-10-434	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna tell Lőrinc Nacsa all this stuff because he's the only one listening to Fidesz. Sorry, I see another congressman. [[Antal Csárdi: There are three of them.]] Three. Good. [[Antal Csárdi: Three out of 133 are here. L. Simon László: Four.]] Yesterday there was a debate at the Legislative Committee about whether there was a veto or no veto in this whole thing. Then, most of all, President Csaba Hende argued that the word "veto" was not written here. Indeed, it is not described as a veto, but there is a word that replaces the veto, the. ha. If the government decides to give you money, then what happens. This is the veto, which is the veto. 'Cause if the government says I'll give you money, if you do this, this and that, for example, they'll determine who's gonna be the director of the theater. But this isn't just about the director of the theater. The theatre director will also be able to determine what artists to work with and conduct a theatre life there. The problem is, you know, you guys actually said that if the municipalities can manage the theatres, then, of course, there will be no problem here. Yes, but there is another law that I would like to draw your attention to, in which you have smuggled in the sentence that community transport will have to be financed primarily from local government revenue sources, business tax. So if they have any money left, because community transport won't take it all away. I'm telling Lőrinc Nacsa that we're talking about artists here, and I really like artists, and by the way, Bagi-Nacha specifically, they might get hurt, too. I grew up in the Kádár era, lived 24 years in the Kádár era. [[Nacsa Lawrence: You can see it!]] When I was young in the Kádár era, I saw the two cult films associated with Péter Bacsó's name, it is true that I had a lot of fun on it, but I also watched it horribly, even thanking me that I was not living in that era. One of these cult movies is the witness, and the other is the ragged life. I was happy at the time that I wasn't living in that era, and I didn't think that 30 years after the so-called regime change, I would have to wonder if those 50s might have come back. It is also interesting, isn't it, that you have tabled the amendment that both films have a very important moment, and this is the important moment of orange. In your ragged life, we can meet a dried orange, which is constantly guarded by the country teacher, who cherishes it. By the way, Péter Bacsó drew this from his own life, because as a young screenwriter, he was invited to a screening in connection with an Eastern Márton film. Let me read his recollection of this. I was invited to a mysterious screening, with Rákosi, Révai and Mihály Farkas sitting among the leather-coated figures. Suddenly, they brought in a fruit basket beyond imagination that I've never seen in my life. It was full of big-eyed grapes, oranges, bananas. I sat trembling when Rakosi suddenly said, Comrade Bacsó, buy an orange and eat. I shuddered, but I bought an orange, and I pocketed it, and I gave it to my lover at the time, and from then on it was cherished. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. And then the movie "The Witness" shows up with the orange. I'm sure you remember if you saw the movie "The Witness" about the dialogue that's taking place there. What's this? Orange. Orange? ! The new Hungarian orange. It's a little yellower, a little sour, but it's ours. That was a lemon. You know, we're about the same with the Fides. We were waiting for oranges, and then we got a lemon with laws like the ones they put in here. I think it would be good for you to consider the direction in which you want to take this country; it would be good if you did not want to go back to the 1950s, if you wouldn't like to call Viktor Orbán a bright-eyed leader in the future, and similar formalities, but unfortunately you are heading this way. Therefore, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary considers this outrageous, and will never support such laws. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-10-435	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Gergely Arató, a representative of DK.
u2019-12-10-436	My fellow Member, Mr Simon, just praised my opinion as the minority rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, and considered that I had gone beyond what it deserved. I feel that what happened in the Legislative Committee will be confirmed by the Secretary of State, and I have only summarized it dry and slickly. Now, however, I have the opportunity to make a proper comment, and I will not hold myself back this time, if you don't mind. I'd like to start by saying that I'm sure we all know the story of Bank's regrets. [[L. Simon László: I'm not sure!]] If we recall the National Theatre of Hevesi Sándor tér. I was just there to see you with Imre Sinkovits, just before or after the Advent at Hargita, a year later, I don't remember any of the demonstrations. [[L. Simon László: Before.]] In any case, I would like to say that you will also remember that the authorities of that time were not so fond of critical theatre, so that they would not allow the work to be presented for twenty years, and perhaps because of the few lines that end up with Tiborc's complaint, that he who robs hundreds or hundreds of thousands of thousands will be the judge of the one he forced to rob. I only brought that up because I see that your mentality is exactly the same. We are in the same place as the high council of the governor at that time, and they do not wish the theatre to speak truths that you do not like, they do not want art to have a critical opinion. Politically and culturally, they are held where Congressman Pósán, who confuses the critic and the opposition to the. Mr President, the opposition and pro-government, although you believe that this is not the case in relative and changing terms, the criticality of art is constant. One of the most important features of art is that it seeks non-governmental favor, not to be cherished from above. I do not claim that every artist is like this, nor do I claim that every artist who is favored by this or that power cannot be a good artist. I'm just saying, expecting this from artists is a serious mistake. Dividing artists into pro-government and opposition, as Congressman Pósán does, is a serious mistake and a self-discovery. 'Cause when you guys split money, you talk about when the government gives you the money. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Secretary of State and Honourable Government, they do not share their own money, but they share the Hungarian taxpayers' money! They're handing out the money that people earned, the money that other people were working for, and of course, they haven't managed to steal yet. From this point on, I have to say that it is not a question of power, that because the government supports it, then the government will know how to be a director and how to have a system of operations. Ladies and gentlemen, Although the working models of culture funding are very different from Berlin to Los Angeles and from Rome to Stockholm, but where there are well-functioning and efficient models, there is one thing that is characteristic of them: although there is political mandate and political decision behind them, there is no political perspective and no direct political influence. That is precisely what Mr Secretary of State has avoided extremely carefully and skillfully, but what our more sincere fellow Members have said is that you want this law for political reasons. They want this law so they can decide on municipal theaters. In the capital, there has so far been a system of appointments of directors, in which basically a technical committee proposed. I wouldn't go along with how your mayors used to go around here and there in the countryside, but István Tarlós, in the capital, has certainly avoided this system in very few cases; we have talked about one of them a lot, and I wouldn't bring it here again. But what I have to tell you is that we don't need a professional-based funding system and a professional-based management system in theatre life because it's some kind of liberal failure, because it's giving liberals the upper hand. [[22.30]] Speaking of which, I'd be very embarrassed that, while you guys are denouncing Jobbik, that politician was the only one standing next to you in this parliamentary debate, who certainly isn't small. I must tell you, fellow Members, that you can see that you only have support from the side of the Sphere culture struggle, from nowhere else. Returning to the basic idea, therefore, such funding is not because it is a liberal or conservative issue, because in conservative countries and in the case of conservative politicians, there are such funding and leadership systems, but because art cannot function, culture cannot function without autonomy, diversity, and it is not respected that culture can bring many kinds of ideas to the surface. The old NKA system, I mean, the NKA system before Secretary L. Simon's operation was more or less so. This is only half the way it works now, given that the colleges have been filled with political delegates, but it is no coincidence that even this is too much for Mr L. Simon, even he wants to take it back. [[L. Simon László: You're talking nonsense!]] We saw it, and you made it perfectly clear that this is just the starting step, we'll come to museums, we'll come to the NKA, we'll go on with the culture fight. But what I have to say to you is that we certainly agree that culture is one of the nation's most important strengthening forces. [[L. Simon László: Well, yes!]] When you attack a free, critical and diverse culture by its nature, when you want to colonize culture, let it be clear that you are attacking the nation, you want to enslave the nation. Not the patriot who recite Wass Albert in the morning and evening, not the patriot who's doing Trianon magyarulás. A patriot who protects the nation's values protects national culture. We're gonna fight you so you can't destroy the culture. [[Applause from the benches of DK, MSZP and LMP.]]
u2019-12-10-437	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi.
u2019-12-10-438	Thank you very much for the floor. I would say to my fellow Member, Mr Simon, that I think that the proportion of Fidesz-KDNP fractions related to culture tells us everything, that four of their 133 Members participate in the debate, and four of them sit here, and three of them participate in the debate. Beyond that, I think it is necessary to clarify what individual agreements are like. Mr Secretary of State said that the government can participate in financing on the basis of specific agreements. We know these specific agreements. We know how this works. We learned that at Péter Polt's at the D.A.'s office. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: What?]] We know how it was chosen. How can you not be a party member? It's okay, we'll change. But we also know him through László Domokos, who, after the President of Jobbik at that time offended Prime Minister, practically never saw him put a billion-dollar fine on them. And yes, we see in the school directors' selection technique what they mean, Mr. Secretary, the individual agreements with the government. You have no idea what democracy is, what self-determination is, and what it means. Yes, Mr Secretary of State said that if the municipality wants better or brighter, if I remember correctly, they used these two markers, then the municipality should finance them itself. Mr. Secretary, I don't know how much you know about the municipal funding system. If you dared to say that sentence, then I think nothing. Nothing! Absolutely nothing, because you can clearly see that this is a process. You have not recovered, and, yes, I say to my fellow Member, Nacsa, that you have not recovered from the results of the October municipal elections, because since then you have actually taken away the first-level building authority powers from the local authorities, making it impossible to maintain a single city image, they have labeled the business tax so that only one task should be used to finance it, but I think that my fellow Member Nacsa has seen a municipal budget and knows exactly how many resources have been lost by the municipalities since 2010. Yes, it's part of the truth that this process started earlier. But one thing is certain: you have tried permanently to eliminate the local government; yes, from the financing side. This means, my honourable fellow Member, that you have put the municipalities in an existential position to pay close attention, because I will say a very interesting proportion pair from the moment you took over the debt from the Municipality of Budapest, under the leadership of István Tarlós has recovered more than half of it, and in five years half of the debt has been repaid by the Municipality of Budapest. This is the economic situation you have put the municipalities in. And in such an economic situation, they try to expect to fully finance their theatres and cultural institutions. Of course, it can be said that this is not a mandatory municipal task. I just think that it should also be quite clear that, in the case of friendly municipalities, the account will be settled through other development benefits. That has been the case, my fellow Member, in the previous term and in the previous term. So I think that's what we should talk about, because when there's an evacuation of the local government, that's what happens. Theaters and culture are on the line right now. Yeah, I understand perfectly why they're worried about a culture fight. I know two clearly right-wing theatres in the capital. One is the National Theatre and the other is the New Theatre, which has already been mentioned. [[Lawrence Nacsa: Fourteen!]] I would like to note that if we look at the saturation of their performances, it is clear that the attendance of these two theatres is deep below it, compared to all the other theatres in Budapest. Yes, what can help is that the National Theatre has a 60 billion-dollar budget for bringing up viewers from the countryside by bus. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: What's wrong with that?]] Yes, with all due respect, the problem is they're losing in a cultural battle. That is what they are now trying to correct in an unspeakable way. Shame and shame! I want to say one more sentence, although today I have also been in a debate with Prime Minister. Yes, my fellow Member Hiller put it perfectly: you have brought up the principle of collective guilt. I would like it to be said in this debate that the principle of collective guilt has been used and applied in a recurring manner by two systems: Nazi Germany and the Communist Soviet Union. I would very much like the Fidesz-KDNP Alliance not to follow up on these systems. Right now, they're on this road. I think that in addition to the financing part of the individual agreement, the problem is that, yes, it will interfere with the repertoire. If you are a former municipal representative, my fellow Member, Nacsa, you know exactly that because the municipality finances a small theatre, such as the IX. He doesn't want to interfere with the repertoire, for example. He doesn't want to interfere with who the theater is playing with. Yes, I think you can show me the printed draft law, my fellow Member, if it is not in writing, it is in substance. I think that your practice, your political practice, perfectly demonstrates that this is what we should expect. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-10-439	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Bence of Tordai. [[22.40]]
u2019-12-10-440	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Well, it would be difficult to add, because I think we have taken on board this shameful bill from the opposition that few other legislative proposals have earned. He has rightly received this total fire, and criticisms from not only opposition representatives but virtually all actors in culture have been made in the last few days. Perhaps that is why the previously net Bolshevik law has now become such a Bolshevik Light bill. Perhaps what I can add to all of this is not even the cultural political part, because I do not feel like an anointed cultural politician, I am a mere cultural consumer, but rather the political environment in which this is taking place. After all, Viktor Orbán did not deny that this whole cultural kampf is about embedding the political system into a cultural era. I may have been a good quote from last year's nasty thoughts. This cultural era, which you want to define, is facing very serious challenges, especially with a lack of content. 'Cause you can get puffed up every time you get the national adjective, but the thing is, you guys haven't really been able to create such so-called national works in the last decade, and now it's almost over a decade. While the political power was in your hands, Viktor Orbán was actually right to state with some self-criticism, although he did not express self-criticism that nothing could be achieved in this area. I don't know if your creators lack talent or diligence, or if it's just that the person who gives his head to art is a free-thinking soul, and he doesn't really talk to such a repressive regime. I'm more suspicious of the latter. The fact is, even though you are national, you will not have a national culture in a fidesz sense, because anyone who is a minister of political power cannot be a good artist. And that's the problem with Dörner, for example, is both fascistoid and untalented. But we can see that the audience has passed a judgment on the New Theatre, passed a judgment on the National Theatre led by your patron, or even the Opera House. The performances are half-housed, and this is by giving tickets for 500 forints and 0 forints, and they are really busing the people from the country. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: What's wrong with that?]] In particular, defenseless children. The problem is, I tell you, my fellow Member Nacsa, the problem is that adult, self-respecting people who have certain tastes do not choose these cultural institutions because they see that their performances, their repertoire, and the artists working there produce poor quality. Because they don't give what they really need, and what the profession and the audience acknowledge as one, but what they're trying to extract from some sort of onionous Viktor Orbán dream, and what they think the customer likes is the one who pays the song. That's one of the problems. The other problem is that Lőrinc Nacsa doesn't understand, although he's talking to someone else right now, why it's a problem for the state to interfere with the appointment of theatre directors. In a rather simplistic way, Lőrinc Nacsa puts it, asking the question: If Christmas appoints the director of the theatre, it is not dictatorship, and Miklós Kásler is dictatorship. Something like that, isn't it? I quote you well, nod, thank you very much. Here's the problem. Perhaps it is easier not to get involved in specific matters but to talk about institutions. I'll tell you why it's not a problem if the head of the municipality appoints you and why it's a problem if the head of the Ministry appoints the director of the theatres. This is called the subsidiarity principle in the European Union. But if you translate it into the language of old good Hungarian sayings and proverbs, you can say that the farmer's eyes are fattening the cattle. So that medium must make the decision, the level of decision is competent in such a selection, where the relevant information is in possession. If the local community maintains a theater, if the local audience goes there, the Fidesz minister must determine who will be the leader of one of the theatres in Budapest through the voters of István Happy. We understand, then, that the state does not have an ideal say in this. I will also explain why it is democratic if the municipalities appoint these leaders. Because there are nearly 3,200 municipalities in this country, if there are not so many theatres and cultural institutions, unfortunately, but still, the diversity of local governments, the political diversity that the local government leaders at the level of mayors, will guarantee democracy in cultural life. If one of the creators is not lucky in such a theater director contest, he can still apply for another theatre in another city, as many people have done. So, in fact, a healthy circulation is reserved for moving one another inseminated by the various characters of cultural life. That's how it's been so far, very well. Now, you want the government not to be able to decide, let's say, the theatre director's applications, but the monolith state in everything. They practically grant veto rights to the Ministry, and even worse, and otherwise the original wording was at least honest and karakan, now they have chosen a soft, cowardly, smearful formula, which, by the way, is much more revealing the true nature of the system. You like everyone to be exposed to the power of Fidesz. You can submit a request to the honourable gentlemen, who will then be judged, and if they see fit, they will allow the minister to negotiate with the municipality. So it's actually more sneaky than net power. It's a meaner and more repulsive solution when they choose the vulnerability, the pything, this really corn kneeling. The end might be the same. So we are not very pleased with the results of the amendments made in connection with the uproar. But let's not leave it alone. Yet there have been substantial changes, if not primarily in this area, because your spiritual hinterland has not been able to accept this either. While they do not know what good democratic governance is, they do not know the point of listening to the people involved, they do not know that legislation does not take place in 36 or 48 hours or even 52 hours to push such a shameful proposal through Parliament, but must be based on the preparatory work of long months or years. And then perhaps not only their own, but perhaps not so close to you in the trade would not be so pissed off. The next time you try, if not for any other reason, at least for reasons of power, the procedure to consult the stakeholders before you, ideally not only with the figures that you consider national, right-wing, conservative or simply loyal to Fidesz, but also with all and all the professions that are close to you. And then it may not be the result, which, by the way, is also a symptom of the Fidesz exercise of power. In these days, in weeks, I feel that Fidesz is giving more and more obvious signs that it is unfit to govern. He gave such bad reactions to his defeat on 13 October, he doesn't really know what to do, he started to play these peaceful strings at the same time, while he also became fully involved in how he was pushing local governments, independent media, opposition representatives or the institutions of art and culture into even worse situations. The thing is, they can't really follow this either, their own loyal vassals so far. They're so forward as they're so weakened that these feudal ties are being broken, and more and more of your supporters are saying the boring thing. I think it's an important message. And take a word of advice, if your loyal backland hasn't been able to go with you on this Bolshevik road, you might be on the wrong path after all. And the desperate effort that has been made to describe the supportive opinions of the pseudo-civil organizations very close to you and the support of those Fidesz-near cultural potentials proves exactly that you feel that you are in trouble. They may be able to push through this, because although today's voting fiasco has shown that they may not even be able to push through what they're supposed to have, it seems they've become unfit to press a simple button, but let's assume that they can push it tomorrow, doesn't mean that you've won a victory, and that's the beginning of your defeat. They've really entered the hallway of their downfall. [[22.50]] So go on this path, really don't take the advice, don't look at how it's worth doing cultural policy, what kind of decision-making procedures a democratic society needs, you can ignore that, the faster you run into their destiny. I will clap on the side of the road and stand on their political graves laughing and dancing cheerfully, adding so much to the Hungarian national culture. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-12-10-441	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to independent Congressman Bernadett Wind.
u2019-12-10-442	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I will have four minutes in total, and it is 11:00 in the evening, and it is at a very interesting stage in a debate: we have heard a lot about the opinion of the ruling parties, but very little information about important things. In particular, we have been here for hours, and we have not been able to obtain any meaningful explanation from the one-eye KDNP and the two now fidesz MEPs as to why they came up with this amendment and why now. There was everything, Berlin and liberal mites, opposition moods, a bunch of provocations, but they couldn't explain the most basic issues. The Secretary of State, perhaps if you were to join the debate, you might be able to put in place these rather poor Members' speeches, which you have not done so far. I would very much ask you not to give your opinion in the closing section, because I need a little update on the other side, maybe the debate would be more productive. István Hiller said that in 50 hours they would push through the law by which they would practically turn the life of a whole sector upside down, and here we are in the debate, and I really believe that this is a scandal on the part of the governing parties. But I will say for you what is the truth here: on the one hand, they are doing this with this law because they have lost Budapest and they want revenge, and they are doing it because they believe they have a right to do so. That's the truth in short: you can't swallow your own election defeat, you have a very bad reaction to failure. I'd like to ask you one question, and then answer that. If István Tarlós was the mayor of Budapest, would we be standing here, sitting here, arguing about this law? Because the answer is no, it wouldn't be. It's that simple. If István Tarlós had won Budapest, this whole case wouldn't have come up. But you failed, from here on out, you want to punish me. To make you happy here in the words of Viktor Orbán, he was talking about some kind of biliary leak here this afternoon. I think this bill is a biliary leak. Every detail of the motivations that were fried: the complete desire for revenge, I can say briefly and concisely. By the way, it is enough to look at yesterday's announcement, published by the EMMI, containing 19 times the word "municipality" in it, and there are sentences such as: "The capital may, if you wish, operate its own theatres on its own, if you wish, so you can operate your own theatres in a calm manner, because we know that 60 percent of the funds from the support of the 13 institutions of Budapest come from state resources, so 60 percent. Now, they can write such a cynical comment that: . The resources necessary to run the municipal theatre are provided by the municipality.... It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. Of course. It's just that it can't be maintained without state aid. Then why are they so cynical? But in the end, the most beautiful part comes: the state, the Ministry, does not interfere with the operation of the capital theatre maintained and financed by the Municipality of Budapest. Instead of reducing the autonomy of the municipalities in this area, it is increasing directly. That's what they could write, that sentence. Because they want to say that this is actually a step to increase municipal autonomy, which should be welcomed, because the state will not interfere with the operation of institutions with municipal reservations. This is a category of outrageous cynicism. By the way, we know what will happen: exactly Gergely Christmas must be consulted individually with the EMMI on joint operation, joint financing, how the Director is appointed. In fact, no details about this are regulated by the law, anything else can happen here, the loophole has been left open, and one of my fellow Members said in a sharp way that there is the word:. Indeed! So from here on out, anything could really happen. I'd like to add one more point, namely, yes, there was this first version, and you shouldn't try to deny it. I got to the end of my four minutes, but that would be worth a special mass and a separate argument about why they're trying to make it look like it wasn't at all. But if that's the case, I'm gonna ask you to never find him again. [[Delight and applause in the ranks of DK, LMP, MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2019-12-10-443	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now it is possible to make two-minute comments. I give the floor first to Congressman László Varju.
u2019-12-10-444	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, More has been said here in the last few hours. I would really like to draw your attention to two things, not to convince you to change anything with this law, because you are determined to do what you want to do, and it is shameful enough to convince you of anything. But I think that we can't ignore what comes out of the cowardice of having this law debated for the night. They didn't have the guts to stand up to those people, they didn't have the guts to discuss what they were up to, and this, the reaction to that, I think, may have surprised you. The point is, however, that they continue to discuss the law on the status of Members of Parliament after the slave law or the statute of Members of Parliament by the same night that they are cowardly hiding under the cover of darkness, under the night, and trying to pretend, otherwise, that no one is reacting to it. I don't think that's gonna happen. You will be caught up in this inquiry, just because this law, which is much more than the political views of the parties and how you see it and how you judge it, you are taking action against culture here for which you cannot escape judgment. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the lines of DK, LMP, MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2019-12-10-445	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa in a two-minute time frame.
u2019-12-10-446	I wanted it quickly before Bence Tordai ran out of the room to leave the meeting room quickly after his speech. [[Bence of Turdai standing behind the chair lines: I'm here, I'm listening!]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Here are some things that have been revealed in opposition posts in the last hour. The first thing that turns out to be very painful for you is that there are two so-called right-wing theaters in Budapest, and it bothers you very much, and you want to do something about this situation. It's so real... [[A statement from the opposition.]] Here we were accused, we were accused, Lóránt László Keresztes told me that at such a communist pace [[Péter Ungár: Young Communist!]] Well, there's a Gyurcsányist faction on the left of him, so they've been young communists a little longer, so put it there and put it there. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] address your message there. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] The second thing I really don't understand is why they attack the fact that, by the way, Hungarian children from any part of the country can watch performances at the National Theatre. [[Bence of Turda: But what kind?!]] Why is it a problem for you that by bus, someone complained that by bus... [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] There was such a tragedy in the country that children arrived by bus to the National Theatre to watch a performance at the National Theatre of the country, in that beautiful building, otherwise a high-quality performance. [[Péter Ungár: Beautiful building?!]] That's one of your problems. The third thing... [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] The third thing I really don't understand is that Congressman Csárdi also said that [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] said that it was better for the municipality to appoint the director [[Gergely Harvestó: At least don't say it's a beautiful building!]] [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] He said that it is better for the local government to appoint the director (Gergely Arató: At least don't say that it is a beautiful building!) And it's better for the government to run the theater because they don't want to interfere in the art and professional life of the theater. (Gergely Harvesto intervenes. ) Now, this is literally what the law says: The agreement on the joint operation of the theatre must guarantee the artistic freedom of the theatre operating together. We don't want to interfere with its operation, that's the case. [[Intercoms from the opposition. Gergely Arató: Only to the election of leaders!]] Why do you think Gergely Christmas doesn't want to get involved, and we want to get involved? It's in the letter of the law. It's a solid sentence, we want to maintain it, and if someone doesn't follow the letter of the law, we'll have to deal with it. But it is a guarantee that a joint agreement can be agreed that the freedom of art is untouched. I'll be right back when my proper speech comes. Thank you. [[Dr. László Pósán applauds.]]
u2019-12-10-447	You can continue, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, because you're next.
u2019-12-10-448	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. [[Gergely Harvester: Oops!]] 'Cause I was two minutes old and normal, so I'm gonna keep talking. [[Bence of Turdai: Yet fidesz, not KDNP! Defiance in the ranks of the opposition. The president's ringing the bell. Intercoms from the opposition.]] Bence of Tordai said that I literally wrote that if he maintained a theatre, he would refer here to the principle of subsidiarity, if he maintained a theater, why not appoint the director of the theatre. But, Congressman, who runs a theater? Together, the state and the municipality maintain a theatre. When the state finances more than 50 percent of the theatre's operation, it cannot say that its sole maintainer is the Municipality of Budapest or the municipality of one of the cities with county rights. Well, that's what we're talking about here, having a common reservation. Well, that's what we're talking about here, having a common reservation. If you say that if he maintains a theatre, then he has the right to appoint the director, which is exactly what we say, that if he maintains it, then he will put it in the joint agreement, and it may be in the joint agreement that the capital and the Ministry of Maintenance jointly delegate, say, a committee on a parley basis, which will assess open tenders. That could be part of the deal. That's why it's open. [[23.00]] They all said about 50 times what a veto is in this law. We've been through the law again: there's still no veto right. [[Péter Ungár: He said that he had a right to veto as a minister, that's the word he said!]] He won't even have veto rights. It's about settling down. You're drawing up a cultural apocalypse here, as if we're discussing a law here that the state wants to withdraw from the funding of all the theatres. You are making speeches here as if you are saying that the state is now refusing to give any money for any theatrical activity. That's not what this is about. We have explained how much the cultural budget has increased compared to 2010. From 179 billion in 2010 to 589 billion in the 2020 budget, which has already been adopted. It's just that there's money for culture, and we want to finance these theaters, and it's not that there's no funding for the theaters, that there won't be money for the theatres. By the way, Antal Csárdi knows precisely, and my colleague György Szilágyi, that the income of a municipality is not only the income of business tax, by the way. For example, cultural norms are also available in cultural institutions to finance institutions, and by far there is not only business tax. But that's a bit of a political answer... because Bence Tordai was very worried about the future, about our health, about a lot of things he used to worry about here. For example, it now costs 1.5 billion for the capital to appoint a lot of deputy mayors and deputy mayors. Why don't you spend it on culture? It costs taxpayers 1.5 billion for five sub-Mayors in Obuda [[Peter Ungár: Oh, my God!]] That there are five deputy mayors, that four deputy mayors in NewBuda. It costs the taxpayers 1.5 billion forints. [[Péter Ungár: How many government commissioners are there?]] This could also be translated into culture. [[Gergely Arató: How many State Secretarys are there? It's barely four times as much as it was in our time!]] I think the government is open to adding the other half, by the way. Mr Harvester spoke very much about how bad the generalization is. You're absolutely right, collectivization or generalization is wrong. You're the one who generalizes against us, for example, when you're stealing us when you're humiliating us. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's true!]] Or they're communicating with us, and I don't know what they're saying about us, all of us, the principle of collective guilt that you guys say to us on a regular basis. By the way, thank you very much for your concern, you have said in every speech that this really is the last nail in our coffin, that is the political career, Fidesz, KDNP will basically fail tomorrow with this law. [[Bence of Turdai: No, he failed in October.]] So if you're so worried about us, then why are you protesting the law? You think this law is good for you, because it's going to bring us down. [[Péter Ungár: No good for the country!]] We still don't understand that. On the other hand, Congressman Tordai did not reply, nor did he reply to why it was different if Gergely Christmas was signed as political leader, party member and party soldier Gergely Christmas was signed. Or, for example, the minister responsible for this culture is not a member of any party, a minister independent of parties. [[Peter Ungár: Oh, my God!]] He is the Minister of the Fidesz-KDNP government, but he is not a party member, unlike Gergely Christmas, he is not a party member. [[Péter Ungár: The National Theatre is beautiful, and Miklós Kásler is independent!]] And he's not a party leader, he's not a party member, and he's not a party leader, Congressman, but you always deny it. When Congressman György Szilágyi tells Jobbik about the orange-cirom analogy that they were waiting for an orange, and I don't know, they got such a rotten lemon in return, we expected a strong national force from Jobbik, and then they became Gyurcsány's servants. Well, we didn't expect the same from you as you did from us. My fellow Members, read this law, because what you are talking about here is not in the law. [[Krisztina Hohn: We read it!]] It's about making an agreement. This is about us wanting to finance the theaters. It's just that there's money for this. The point is that their fullest operation remains guaranteed, because the government is open to this, and it is about creating a transparent and transparent situation. In addition, you are talking about how transparently and safely public money needs to be used, in all other speeches other than today, and you are presenting proposals to this end. Well, that's what it's all about, being transparent. A director of the theater arranges a state grant of HUF 300 million by writing a thank-you letter to the Secretary of State and said that this was successfully used for the operation of the theatre. No, it's not like that, it's not like that. What must be continued is that the control of public funds, the use of good use, the due diligence, that, in any case, there are no scandals in these theaters. Soldier József Theatre, New Theatre, whatever, here's a hat. The fact that they want to push the New Theatre on us politically proves that it's another reason for this law to create clean relations. [[Peter Ungár: Who appointed him?]] We need this law. I ask you not to talk about a veto, which is not in the law, not about subsidiarity, which is not in the law. [[Gergely Harvestó: No, it's not in the law!]] Talk about what's in the law. Talk about the common agreement, talk about more money to be spent on culture, talk about how predictable and safe these theaters can be financed in the future. The fact that, in my view, public transport must be financed primarily from the trade tax is very important, and culture is also very important is also a priority area for public transport. It should be used to finance public transport. You're presenting this proposal as if we're taking money from the theaters. That's not what this is about. It's the opposite. You will notice that this is not about spending it on community transport, and that is why there will be no theaters, and there will be no money. In this proposal, we ensure that there is money for these theaters, because we also want them to continue to work qualitatively, and otherwise, as the Hungarian theatre culture, which is world-famous because of its many famous actors and institutions, to further enhance its reputation, that is precisely the purpose of the law. I hope that we can agree on this goal, and through this goal we can express our views on this law, because you have not yet expressed your views on the law, but on something quite different. Because Szél Bernadett claims that we should be discussing such previous proposals here, which was not a decision by the government, there was not even a ministerial meeting decision about it, otherwise it has not been submitted to Parliament, and he expects us to argue about such a law, we are obviously not willing to do so, because this law, which enjoys the support of the government, which enjoys the support of the majority of governments, and which is what the debate is about. Thank you very much. [[Dr. László Pósán applauds.]]
u2019-12-10-449	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Péter Ungár.
u2019-12-10-450	Thank you for the floor. Secretary of State, I'd like to start with a quote. You know Mr. Strawberry Artist, I suppose. There were times when Szombathely had a fidesz mayor, and you didn't want to interfere in party politics at all, then the theatre director Tamás Jordán wanted to replace Tamás Jordány with Mr. Eperjes, who said that he should finish this whole committee thing, and in my opinion it would be easier if the director of the theatre was appointed by the management of that city. Then the position of the right was that the mayor of Szombathely was able to appoint the director of the theater. That's not true, by the way, because the board decides. Then and now there is about the same proportion of state money at the Weöres Sándor Theatre on Saturday as now. Why is it that Tivadar Gunner was still allowed this driver's license, but not András Nemény? That's the question. Why is it that at this time you thought that you had to change in three days what has worked differently, which has worked so far, that if you wanted to take someone out of the position, even a man who you said you could have done that, on a political basis, if you had been able to put together a majority that didn't work. The thing is, let's not pretend that this law is just about what's written in it. If we look at the media on the right, Congressman Nacsa, and what they say about him, for example, is the director of the Thalia Theatre... Let me open a parenthesis: I was at the Thalia Theatre, I watched the play Men's Brain. The fact that Hungarian public money goes into this is, in my opinion, a sad thing, but I will not, as a Member of Parliament, prescribe what it goes into and what it doesn't cost. If anyone had to worry about what he was doing for the Hungarian theatre culture, it was Mr.Chalomist Director, because there was a lot in that piece, but it wasn't civil value, conservatism or anything about Hungarian culture, but it doesn't matter. Nevertheless, of course, if he remains director, then he has the right to do the wrong theater. Everyone has the constitutional right to do a bad theater. The fact is that this is part of a right-wing cultural policy course that began with the speech of Árpád Szakács, in which they explained that you are the most oppressed minority in the world, governed for the ninth year, and you are the most oppressed minority, and you simply were not allowed to create value. All I've heard here is that there are only two right-wing theaters in the capital and how many Balliberal theaters there are. You're the one who uses this category. I'd like to continue with a quote. He says that he lists the measures, and it is from here:, The compensation of the previously unworthy conservative elite was served by the new measures,, this must be used, and it should not be called into account by the policy if the great works are not born, if they are not really born. In the wake of Kassák, this man sends a message to those who see their own failure in the excessive support of the liberals no longer exist. [[23.10]] Dear Secretary of State, This was written by L. Simon László in the Watcher in 2013. It's very surprising that he hasn't thought that since then, as I have heard. But I could quote one more person for a short one. He said it wasn't a compromise, it was a rep. And this is not the first time I have met this example, which was already planned to do once between 2000 and 2002 in Imre Makovecz's proposal to create another body. This was the debate surrounding the establishment of the MMA, which was then prevented by this secretary of state for culture. This is Zoltán Rockenbauer. I'm sure you have a lot of respect for your predecessor, too. The thing is, I'm sure this law shows a lot of things, but not the spirit of Zoltán Rockenbauer. The thing is, they're never gonna be able to fix with a law that you feel repressed in something that's just about who writes what on the paper. There are very large people in the right-wing cultural space. For me, one of my favorite poets is also your predecessor, Géza Szőcs, who is a very well-respected and good poet, who enriches Hungarianness. Let's not talk about what he did with spending money after that. We're talking about the poet as a lyrical work of art. The thing is, no one stops these people from writing poetry, nobody stops anything. And the fact that you, who have said and written everywhere with three years of wheezing confidence that the American MeToo campaign is a liberal mite, and it is outrageous that you want to make public policy proposals in the United States about sexual harassment, this particular sentence was in Origo, and you are, as I might say, the late and present youth organization of the Alliance of Free Democrats, copying from America, making a MeToo campaign, which you want to do with public policy, my dear fellow Member Nacha. That's what happened. The fact is that I do not want to explain this in more detail, because this has already been said by Vice-President Hiller with the mention of collective guilt, but it was shameful what they did with this case in Katona József, and it is unworthy of what is the financing of Hungarian culture. I think it is important to explain the difference between Miklós Kásler's appointment, say, the director of the Weöres Sándor Theatre or András Nemény, or Pál Veres or Miklós Kásler. And this is what our fellow Member Hollik wrote on Facebook that both are democratically elected people. But there is one difference: András Nemény was elected by the people who primarily go to this theatre because they live there. They have the greatest impact on their lives. The Szombathely Panel, the Metropolitan Assembly or the Miskolc Board have direct legitimacy to decide on this, as they are directly elected. Miklós Kásler's name wasn't accompanied by anyone. He can still act on cultural matters, because there is a parliamentary democracy, but there is a principle that is one of the fundamental principles of the European Union and the Hungarian Fundamental Law, that those who live with the consequences of a decision have a fundamental right to decide on this decision, in this case through the municipal body. And what's sad about all this is that, by the way... and this debate that the government side is having, they're actually just talking about the capital. So both the speaking fellow Members and the wider discourse on this were only about the capital. You want to reconvene a debate in the '93 Moving World, which was about who was marginalized within the democratic opposition and whose talent was not recognised because the liberals joined forces against it. The Alliance of Free Democrats has already died, and its youth organization seems to be alive, but the Alliance of Free Democrats is already dead, and we do not want to have this debate anymore. So let the Hungarian cultural policy not be about Árpád Szakács being offended by the world. I'm sure he has his own personal reasons that Árpád Kács and Miklós Szántó are offended by the world, but it's a law, not the drawing of a psychodrama group. So I would ask the Secretary of State to try to make a law before the House about culture, in which the freedom of the local governments is respected, and which is not made up of such an immense anger of anger, defiance and inefficiencies for people with inferiority complexes and various psychosexual thoughts, but of ordinary laws that are about it. Thank you.
u2019-12-10-451	Thank you, Congressman. Now it is possible to make two-minute comments. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató.
u2019-12-10-452	Mr President, Dear House, Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa is right, it would be wrong and wrong to generalise the Fidesz MEPs and the KDNP MEPs, I'm sorry, I almost forgot! I don't think so. Indeed, not all Fidesz and KDNP representatives are thieves. Not all Fidesz and KDNP Members want a party state instead of a democracy. Not all fidesz Members want fundamentalistic religious rule over freedom of conscience. [[Nacsa Lawrence:]] Not all Fidesz and KDNP representatives put their own political interests ahead of their country's interests. Not all Fidesz and KDNP representatives want to drive Hungary out of Europe to fall on Putin's bosom. Not all Fidesz and KDNP representatives are enemies of culture. I'm sure there are fools, careers, and serbians, but that won't be an excuse after tomorrow's vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2019-12-10-453	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Balczó.
u2019-12-10-454	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, At the TAB meeting, which took quite a while, on a key issue, we managed to find a resting point in an interpretation debate, including President Csaba Hende, who, in codification and interpretation of the law, I believe is an etalon. So this bill doesn't directly include the possibility of veto. At the same time, this legislation provides the opportunity to use the veto. That's what we agreed on. So, yes, there is no veto, only the possibility of being created within the framework of this legislation from the veto state part. And I think that if they created it, they didn't create it to never live with it. I would not have asked for the floor specifically for the following comment, but if I had already spoken: it is likely that you will not remember it, I also mentioned in my speech about the theatres and the New Theatre that the Mayor said that he would not only be the mayor of the mayor of those who voted for him, but also of those who did not. And I went on to say that this could obviously take place in the cultural area, and I said why I think that the New Theatre is a useful, important, colorful value, and there are a lot of people in Budapest who consider Wass Albert important, and if there's a play out of Wass Albert's work, it's important to them. And I'll tell you something: I did this as a little valet of Ferenc Gyurcsány. He specifically asked me to stand up for the New Theatre. Thank you very much. [[Depreciation in the ranks of MSZP and DK. Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-10-455	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc in two minutes.
u2019-12-10-456	Thank you very much. It is, however, impolite that Péter Ungár accuses us here of the otherwise completely reprehensible and scandalous harassment scandal in the political arena. [[Péter Ungár: Because that's not what happened?]] That's not what happened. You started this with T-shirts, candles, glued mouths, monoclips, parliamentary hysteria, Marton issues. That's when you started to create a political playing field out of these unfortunate human fates and, by the way, the crimes next to you. You started this, let's just get things straight. You started this, and I think that we demanded that you act immediately, otherwise immediately. To this day, there are also Péter Gothár's arrangements, who then pockets the various royalties and performers' fees. There may have been a piece like this tonight, when you here, Congressman Gréczy, stood up a great deal, that they had long since been separated, that they had been fired a long time ago, that this thing had already happened. So I didn't say [[Intercoms from opposition lines.]] I'm saying that the people who covered this up are the director of the theater and then the head of the capital. You kept protecting them in the press, who covered this up, the leaders of the capital and the leaders of the theatre. [[Gergely Harvesto: No, it's not true!]] And yet, for the second time, Bence Tordai has used it: the fake NGOs have stood up for the government's draft... in which there are otherwise recognized actors, theatre directors, calling them fake civil society organisations. And you said we were just talking about Budapest. Less is to be said about the countryside in this context because the Association of the Directors of the Rural Theatres has stood up for the law and said that it is a useful and forward-looking proposal, as many others, the Hungarian Theatre Society, or the Association of Outdoor Theatres or the Association of Hungarian Art Festivals, have all stood up for this proposal. Bence Tordai simply discredited these associations when they all sit in it by respected theatre directors and artists. I think it's a shame. [[23.20]]
u2019-12-10-457	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Zita Gurmai in a normal time frame.
u2019-12-10-458	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, I have a request. I think we've made it very clear that we want another bill that we can normally discuss during the day. I could say that the whole world is a theatre, but it's a really good theater when it's sold out, and here I can tell you a lot of things, but that the governing party would be sold out, moderately, in truth, there are four of them left. So I would like to ask with all due respect that you, who would like to do this well, we would like to have a bill that is good for this country, which is good for culture, do this, that you are not such a stysutty, not at this last moment, but, indeed, after this debate, everyone has said what they think of it, everyone has their own opinion, do it by sleeping on it, and tomorrow we will take it off the agenda.
u2019-12-10-459	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn.
u2019-12-10-460	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, So, at the end of the day, talking at this late hour, it's not that easy. We've heard a lot of things here today, and I'm sorry there's so little presence, especially from the ruling parties. This only shows that you are absolutely not interested in what we think, respect for the exception. Although I believe that at home, at this late hour, on the Internet, the pro-government representatives will follow the debate and listen to what we say and think about it. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] I think that today my fellow Member Nacsa has taken the show in terms of speaking to the opposition, but I still appreciate you, because at least you're here, and at least you're giving an opinion, as you said... [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes. Claps, word in the opposition benches.]] Praise the Hohn Kriszta, I know, and not just here... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It's the second time this week!]] Yeah, I know! But he was involved not only here, but also in the series of discussions on the subject. This is important because by putting our opinions down and ignoring them, as I say again about our person, respect for the exception, always add it in thought, but I have little time, so I will not keep saying it, so they will also put down their own parties, their own party work, their own representatives' work, because what they are presenting to you seems to be accepted without debate and thought. This may be a proper party discipline, I do not know, but I think that I have just said this several times before in order to preserve the appearance of democracy, these debates are important. You think it's weird that we're making this law look negative. You claim we didn't read it. We have also read the first version, which we thank God, my fellow Member, L. Simon, has already acknowledged that we did exist at that time, and we have read this second version this morning, as we received it, partly on the way, partly out here in the corridor. Yet you wonder why we fear him. Now, just a moment, I would like to point out that there are legislative proposals that the opposition is used to support. So don't tell me what we're saying that we don't, because that's not true. Unlike the ruling parties, although it is a fact that two have now been included in a series of subjects, two climate laws, which are a very big achievement, I believe that this is a good thing, but very rare, like the white raven, that you are even considering the bill that we are submitting. I am sure that at least 90 percent of your fellow Members will not read it, because they do not care, and I have already received this from some of my fellow Members, who are pro-government Members, what I actually want. This was said in private, not here in the House, but it has been said, and it may seem worthless at this time, or I might even feel worthless here, but I do not think so. But why are we afraid of these billings? I'll tell you. It's because we're not functional illiterates, as we've already received here that we can't read properly. We can read and read between the lines, because before there were a lot of laws that ended badly. We don't understand it now, and we can't accept why it's so urgent, that you're almost already rubbing house rules down our throats, just like you did a lot of other things. Although the other laws had at least the possibilities, the committees had debates, summary amendments and other debates. They have now left us a few hours, minutes, to submit amendments and so on. Indeed, the first version was more serious, and perhaps that is why we think that this will also have a more serious consequence, a version, and then hidden in a salad law, it will be written in paragraph 35, the things that have been left out of the previous one, and I believe that this kind of mistrust is what the opposition does. I mean, we don't want the old days, I don't want to speak for the others, but I suppose they don't want the Ts or the Ts, the Ts, the Ts, the Forbidden, the Forbidden, the Forbidden... yes, I think that you think that those who aren't with you are against you. We're not enemies, we're just political opponents, and there's a huge difference between them, but you're going to say that we're gonna communicate with you and so on. You guys are constantly plotting us, for example, pro-immigrants, fence cutters, we're being cut off, and so on. So you're putting the same labels on us... [[Gergely Harvesto: The Praise!]] Oh, that's a compliment? To whom so, to whom so, and to whom it shall be decided, to whom it shall be praise, and to whom it is not. So you have to think about making a mistake in your communications, too. And my fellow Member, Nacsa, let me tell you something after that praise, you're one of the people who yelled at me, even though you were one of the authors of the law that will prohibit this... [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes. The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I'm just saying, don't forget this when you yell at your fellow Member when you insult him and ask him where you were. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Time's up. Thank you very much, that's enough.
u2019-12-10-461	Thank you, Congresswoman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the consolidated debate is closed, and I will ask Mr Secretary of State to comment on what has been said. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have a ten-minute time frame.
u2019-12-10-462	Honourable Members, Please allow me to be a little personal in this short time available. If you had accused me of not having enough daily contact with creative artists and representatives of culture in the field of the library, the archives, the museum and contemporary art, I would have refused, but that I would not have had a very intensive day-to-day relationship with fellow artists in the field of performing art and the theatre, I would be very shocked. Ladies and Gentlemen, In most of my last two-year undersecretary of state, I was accused of doing too much performing art, spending too much time with the theaterists, and spending too much of my energy on these matters. Please believe that during the preparation of this law and during the last year, during the launch of the Tao, we have had very thorough, very serious negotiations. Congressman Hiller indicated that the Act on Performing Arts had been drawn up for two years, and that at that particular hummingbird meeting it was not an end point of this debate. We have experienced dozens of such non-terminative disputes over the past year, where all the representatives of the theatre were indeed there. [[23.30]] The list that has been half-named, please allow me to read: the Hungarian Teatrum Society with 70 member organizations, the Mosaic Artist Association with the alters, the Association of Outdoor Theatres, the Association of Art Festivals, the Association of Directors of Rural Theatres, the Association of Hungarian National Theatres and the Association of Hungarian Art Festivals. There are over 200 member organisations, over 2,000 professionals represented by them. Ladies and Gentlemen, If the five people and the crowd are opposed, please understand that there is a very serious crowd here, whose interests were represented by this law, and at these discussions, at these professional conferences, the basic questions asked by these theatres were raised. Please allow me to list some of these. The fact that there is a wage increase in the theatre sphere is that the amount of municipal aid is not reduced and in some way guaranteed. The fact that we may be able to conclude agreements for several years is the content that I, as Secretary of State, would like to bear in mind in any case in such agreements. Our goal is that when we enter into individual agreements with individual municipalities on joint operation, I now promise you in advance that these points will be the points on which the Secretary of State will pay great attention and represent the interests of the theatres. And as I was trying to recall someone's sentence a year ago, we declared a cultural apocalypse because we led the Tao out, and in the context of the cultural apocalypse, we announced the impossibility of the entire independent sphere, and now we're talking about 400 of these institutions, and they've closed the year, and they've accepted it, and they've thanked us for turning the Tao into one of them. It has just been said that these letters of thanks, some of these letters of thanks, may have been born on the basis of fear. Perhaps you won't be offended by the fact that I'm mentioning a few of the letters you've just received. Mr. Secretary of State. I welcomed you and read your information, and we would like to thank you on behalf of the Gyula Castle Theatre for our thanks for this year's support to the theatre sphere. The Szeged Cellar Theatre is very grateful that our operation was found to be worthy of support. We thank you for your letter, which has reassured us in many ways. Sharpen up, Bela, Sharpen up. , Art Anzix Theatre:, We were very pleased to receive this and so much money for our application for extra support for performing art organizations. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Gergely Arató: That's what it's about to be thanked!]] Toy color. I wanted to tell you that please understand that these theaters did not return out of fear that the event announced a year ago for the apocalypse, the event for the apocalypse, was a positive conclusion. And, please, allow me to conclude with a quote from Örkény, "We often understand each other well in the most complicated things, but sometimes not on very simple matters. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I will try to prove that this law was born in the interest of these theatres in the coming period, and, as we now see at the end of the Tao Law, a year later, they will see that it has positively moved the Hungarian theatre life, that in a year's time, we will see that the kind of atmosphere that we talked about pledging the NKA, that Professor Miklós Kásler will appoint the theatre directors, and that we will take the air away from the independent sphere, we will completely suffocate the independent sphere, they will not be proven, they will not be confirmed. No one ever thought that Professor Miklós Kásler would appoint the theatre directors, that NKA should be plowed, and that the slightest thought of making the independent sphere impossible was never born in the sphere of cultural secretaryship. One more personal name: I myself, with a glue gun in my hand, began my theatrical career at the Merlin Theatre, I know exactly what it means to do an alternative theatre, an independent theater. And you can be sure that as long as I am the Secretary of State, this independent sphere will have all the support it needs. So I ask you to understand that the mood of the kind of apocalypse was partly a political mood, and the 400 letters that went out to the Hungarian theatres in the last few days made it clear to the theatre directors that there was no such intention in the government, soothing the sphere. And the two thousand people who, by the way, have already expressed their opinion that they are in agreement with this and have given a positive judgment on this bill will be justified in the coming period. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-10-463	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agendas. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Member Attila Barcza asked to speak after the first agenda:. Sopron is the City of Loyalty, let us remember the title of December 14, 1920. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-12-10-464	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, On December 14, 1920, 98 years ago, an exemplary event took place in Sopron. The year 1919 was not only a very difficult time for Sopron, but for the whole country, after a losing world war, with huge losses and a period before an unjust peace dictate. However, the self-conscious citizens of Western Hungary were able to make a decision about Sopron and eight settlements around Sopron in a referendum. This vote was scheduled for 14 December. Sopron and the settlements decided, and by a large majority they chose the Hungarian country. On 1 January 1922, Sopron was handed over to Hungary by representatives of the Allied Powers, and the result of the vote was welcomed by the whole of Hungary with breaking-out celebrations and joy. The nation's gratitude was set up in a 1922 law, which I would quote:, To commemorate the memory of the referendum, a monument worthy of the significance of this historic event in the area of Sopron, and Sopron's free royal coat of arms will be supplemented with the Civitas Fidelissima symbol, i.e. bestowing the title of the most loyal city to Sopron. The referendum has become an eternal symbol in the lives of all Hungarians, because they have shared our history and have filled the path to the future with hope. This is how he once remembered the referendum in Sopron, Klebelsberg Kunó, then Minister of the Interior. Sopron prepared for the referendum, not that there was someone here who had the slightest doubt about the outcome of the referendum, but was prepared to express his unwavering attachment to the Hungarian country as much as possible. Dear House, Sopron's greatest celebration is loyalty and freedom related concepts. 30 years ago, on 19 August 1989, the wonderful historic moment of the pan-European picnic took place. This is due to the courageous Hungarian citizens, Dr. László Tamás, László Nagy and all the organizers whose faith in freedom was able to address thousands of people and invite them to a picnic designed to break down the iron curtain, the symbol of the hated communist dictatorship. This opened the iron curtain and opened its borders, and we can say that it knocked the first brick out of the Berlin Wall. Sopron, the most loyal city in 1989, became a city of freedom in the year of the change of regime. Dear House, He served Sopron's loyalty when he testified to the Hungarian nation in 1921 and gave courage when he stood up for the idea of European freedom in 1989. I wish Sopron to be the pilgrimage place of all freedom-loving Hungarians and Europeans. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-12-10-465	Thank you, Congressman. Mr László György Lukács applied for a speech after the next agenda:. This was also the title of the year 2019. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-12-10-466	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On the previous sitting, I started an overview of the year 2019, in which we discussed really interesting or particularly interesting public life topics. There was talk about the protest against the slave law, the election of the EP during the march, the political consequences of that, but we could say, for example, the scandalous case of housing in the Castle, which was a memorable public act. [[23.40]] I did all of this in order to give a general sense of how diverse 2019 was, how special it was. Almost every year, it is worth summing up the trends, the atmosphere in public life. Not only because, hopefully, in our world-class protocols, there will be a trace of this, but also because posterity will see what might have been really important in 2019 if we look at the events through the glasses of the opposition or an opposition representative. Following the year 2019, it was obviously one of the major public events and news coverage of the SMA patients. This was a constantly recurring case, which is typically the case of young patients, child patients who suffer from an incurable or very difficult, inherited genetic disease, and who, unfortunately, need a contribution to their healing that the budget does not actually provide for because of austerity or indiscriminate planning. Well, the fact that politics couldn't ensure recovery didn't mean that they couldn't heal. In many cases, collections for several children began, Zente, Levente, a lot of small memorable names who were rightly involved in public life, and it was the SMA case that showed that, in essence, if you care enough about politics, not only public life, but also civil society organisations or even parents, you can focus the attention of society on an important and very important matter. Finally, this case was resolved by providing a smaller framework for patients to finance very expensive drug therapy. It was less of a good cause or it was less of a good cause for society at the municipal elections in Borkai. The Borkai case has appeared in Parliament quite often, and which was essentially not only outrageous or particularly interesting because it presented an immoral way of life, but rather because of what was less in the interest of the media or public interest, it could be said that it was a corruption, in a calm manner, that the municipal wealth was squandering. After all, this was not only a focus of Adriatic yachting that symbolizes an immoral way of life, but the abuses that have not been fully discovered to this day have not been tracked down, investigated, and these are the very strange growths that have affected Zsolt Borkai and his family members or the entrepreneurs close to him. So the Borkai case has been a case over the last few months, and I think that 2020 could be one of the main issues, but it is undoubtedly part of the table of important events in 2019. Then you can say the municipal election right away, because these were related cases. At the municipal elections, it has been proven that there are many people in the country who do not imagine the future of their narrower community with the ruling parties. From here you can congratulate the county and county towns, county seats, which have changed, trusted and given the opportunity to continue the next five years in other positions and other political constellations. We also congratulate those voters who have been so courageous, trust in the opposition, and trust in the promises I believe to be good-hearted, well-intentioned and fulfilling that opposition representatives and candidates have placed on their flag. But this has another reading: in recent weeks, we have had to experience the retortion of the municipal elections in Parliament and in the legislature. This was nothing more than the government's activity to launch a legislative factory that was used precisely to corner these opposition authorities and to corner the opposition. Here it was about the business tax or the theatrical proposal we just discussed, but it was all about taking powers that, in many cases, served to stabilize Fidesz' own position, which collapsed, in some way. I think that 2019 started with a power sparkle, and at the end, we got to the point where the power waved. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We are curious to see what the year 2020 will be like. We hope that we will also have the opportunity to report this here, before the House's plenum. Thank you very much for your patience. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-10-467	Thank you, Congressman. We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 11 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
