u2019-06-20-0	Dear Parliament, The 4th day of the extraordinary meeting of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Simicskó and Gergely Arató will help me in the leadership of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, The general debate on the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2020 will follow. The bill is T/6322. Opinion of the State Court of Auditors T/632/4. can be found on the IT network. I would like to inform you that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I would like to remind you that the Parliament has decided to negotiate the proposal within a 30-hour timeframe. The agenda recommendation shall be appended to the allocation of timeframes. I would like to ask Mr István Simicskó to explain the distribution of the time frame for the factions available for today.
u2019-06-20-1	Dear Parliament, The 14-hour timeframe available today is divided into 288 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 132 minutes for the KDNP Group, 113 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 91 minutes for the MSZP Group, 68 minutes for the DK Group, 61 minutes for the LMP Group, 58 minutes for the Dialogue Group and 29 minutes for the independent Members.
u2019-06-20-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, The opening speech, the speech by the President of the State Audit Office and the President of the Board of Budgets, and the speeches by keynote speakers and representatives took place at the beginning of the general debate yesterday. The further speeches will now take place in the time frame available for today. I would like to draw your attention to the possibility of proposing amendments by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing. First up is Mr Péter Ovádi, Member of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-06-20-3	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, So as a first speaker in today's debate, I would like to mention a very important topic: the 2020 budget is very important for municipalities, because there are more than 3,000 municipalities in Hungary. According to the wording of the Fundamental Law, local authorities operate in Hungary to deal with local public affairs and to exercise local public authority. So the institution of the local government is the Hungarian society, one of the cornerstones of the Hungarian legal system, since it is the body closest to the population, most suited to local peculiarities, which is the primary player in the administration of local affairs. According to the introduction of the municipal law, the Parliament recognises and defends the right of the community of local voters to self-government. So the legislation recognises the right of the municipalities to exist and protects and supports the operation of the municipalities. In return, the State expects local authorities to contribute to the achievement of the State objectives set out in the Fundamental Law as part of a single system of public bodies and to facilitate compliance with legal obligations. The Fundamental Law does not mention the concept of public affairs to be dealt with, it is also provided by the municipal law. Local public affairs are essentially linked to the provision of public services to the public and to the creation of organisational, personal and material conditions for local self-government and cooperation with the public. The local government shall exercise the statutory and voluntary tasks and responsibilities. These tasks are listed in the municipal law only on an exemplary basis, so the tasks to be performed are not defined in an exact manner. Ladies and gentlemen, The government is committed to the support and partnership of municipalities. From 2011 to 14 the Fidesz-KDNP government freed municipalities from debt of HUF 1369 billion on a historical scale, the difficult situation of which was also compounded by the ruins left behind by the Balliberians. Following pressure on responsible farming, billions have flown through the operational programme for territorial and urban development to the unprecedented development of settlements. Today, it is worth highlighting the programme of modern cities or the significant support provided by the Hungarian village programmes. Ladies and gentlemen, The focus of the budget before us on the financing of municipalities is support for families, further increase in employment and measures to increase living standards. Local authorities are expected to manage around HUF 2952 billion without a loan in 2020, with a central budget of HUF 735.8 billion in the IX., the local government support chapter, and 100.9 percent of the 2019 funding. Ladies and gentlemen, In the following, I would like to highlight some points relating to Cardinal areas. The first is general operation and management. The majority of municipal tasks are management, urban operation, public lighting, local taxation and the rest in the classic sense. Local public affairs will also be provided in 2020, as in previous years, by a general grant depending on the different performance indicators and the ability of local authorities to generate income. Within the general support, the support of the local government office appears separately, the most typical of which is the support for municipal operations and other mandatory municipal tasks. [[Gergely Harvesto will take his place in the notary's seat.]] Public education. The main task of the municipalities in the field of public education is to provide kindergarten care in 2020. Average wage-based support directly assisting educators has increased significantly due to wage arrangements in 2019. In the social sector, in the social and child welfare system, the role of municipalities remains essentially the provision of basic care. It is important to point out that the coverage of wage arrangements for 2017-19 is incorporated into the basic subsidies under the 2020 bill, thus increasing significantly. [[8.10]] I would also like to address the cultural sector. The support for the cultural tasks of the municipal authorities increased due to the wage arrangements for 2019. The proposed appropriations for the cultural sector in 2020 amount to more than HUF 41 billion. I would also like to address local government developments. The draft budget law will continue to provide a source of tender for the development of municipal cuisine, for the small-scale renovation tasks of local authorities, without capacity building, and for the renovation of roads with solid housing. I am very pleased that in my constituency, too, there have been a lot of settlements in recent years, and many have successfully applied. It is necessary to stress that support for new investments will also be published by more than HUF 4 billion in 2020. The amounts allocated to the tasks listed above will continue to ensure the safe performance of the tasks to be performed by the municipalities and, in several cases, will allow improvements to be made. Ladies and gentlemen, The programme of Modern Cities is an unprecedented urban development programme, which, if we look at Veszprém, we can say that based on cooperation concluded in 2016, we are doing very well on time, because there is already a programme that is coming to an end, such as the investment in the Veszprém Zoo, some of which we laid its foundation stone a week ago, such as the investment in the Veszprém Swimming Pool, and some investments that are currently under way, they are planning and will be realized in the future and in the coming years. I would like to highlight the program of the Hungarian village, which affects 24 settlements in my constituency and 2887 settlements nationwide. Thank you very much for bringing this program to life under the leadership of Vice-President Gyopáros. I think the government is implementing an historic program. The government is committed to increasing the number of people living in small towns and improving their quality of life. On the national average, nearly one third of the population live in settlements of less than 5,000 people. In these areas, the rate of natural weight loss is higher than national, so there was a need for an intervention that could stop or reverse this process. This intervention bears the name of the "Hungarian village" program. The aim of the programme is to increase the population and population-enhancing power of small settlements in Hungary, and therefore the aim is to develop programme elements that together can have a positive impact on the population and living standards of the locality, small region, which rely on a significant proportion of the support schemes in different fields. The 2019 Hungarian village program is also very popular among small settlements. The aim of the programme, planned for 2020, is to ensure access to services and public services to meet basic needs, and to implement improvements that can eliminate the difference in development between areas and settlements and stop the process of emigration. It is clear from the relevant figures of the budget that the Hungarian village programme will have a central budgetary impact in the year 2020 of HUF 150 billion, which is based on three pillars. The first pillar is the HUF 40 billion tender resource, which can be used to enhance service development, infrastructure and asset development, as well as identity awareness. For example, such sub-programmes include the development of the service housing program, the development of a village care network, the development of medical clinics or the renovation of kindergarten courtyards and playgrounds. Within the framework of the second pillar, if a person makes the purchase and modernisation of the apartment used in the village CSOK at the same time, he will receive the same amount of support as in the case of the construction of a new flat under the general CSOK rules. It also supports the modernisation of existing used dwellings and houses. Another element is that if the family does not have enough support and does not have enough self-power, they can also take on government interest-supported loans, forints 10 million for two children, forint 15 million for at least three children, and half of these loans for the modernisation of existing real estate, HUF 5 million and HUF 7.5 million. Under the third pillar, for the year 2020 HUF 2.5 billion is available to finance the preparation of the road renovations scheduled as part of the Hungarian village programme. As in last year, the government plans to spend HUF 50 billion on road renovations in the framework of the Hungarian village programme. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to carry out the local government-related tasks I have described, the budget has the right amount, so that in 2020 municipalities can advance one more, not to mention small settlements of less than 5 thousand people, where there will be even more large-scale development thanks to the priority grants. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-06-20-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman János Stummer, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2019-06-20-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, 2019 is the year of great confrontation. A hundred years ago, for the first time, the Hungarian counter-revolutionary forces managed to overcome the monster of communism, and the country and the Hungarian economy began to recover after the first world burn. But it was 70 years ago that Bolshevism also took revenge, and in 1949, Cardinal Mindszenty, Paul Esterházy, was arrested, and in that year he consolidated the power of the four-breed led by the Rákosi system. The era of planning management lasted up to 30 years when the so-called regime change began. I have experienced the beginning of this process with a child's head, but I vividly remember the hopeful public mood at that time. I remember the initial optimism, the air in this country was full of hope and expectation. The borders were opened, the shelves increased the various goods, and the used western car could be brought in cheaply. But I also remember the mass disappointment that would soon replace hope, the proliferation of demonstrations, your taxicabs, and the wave of dissatisfaction that eventually brought the post-communist forces back to government positions 25 years ago. The change of regime has been appreciated by many wise people, and almost everyone agrees on one thing: we did not want this horse together. We wanted a market economy without unemployment. We wanted a business opportunity without risk. We wanted increasing wages without inflation. Undeniably, the number one reason for our disappointment was our own naivety and the lack of knowledge of the functioning of capitalism. But the second very important reason for disappointment was the hypocrisy, cynicism and double standards of the West that have been applied to this day. We did not think that 30 years after the fall of the socialist dictatorship, they would still be disparagingly talking about us and making us maids. Ladies and gentlemen, We're on our own, we're left with a country within Europe, where the day laborer, the worker, can be lured to the big city for a better living. What's the big story about? GDP is increasing, inflation is falling, unemployment is falling. [[8.20]] On paper, it's all good and good, isn't it? GDP is increasing, because the multinationals, who have been lured here by the government with hundreds of billions of public money, have paid the wages of Hungarian workers in advance for years. The Hungarian National Bank and KSH have reduced inflation due to their magic, but prices are only rising, above all food. The difference between VAT reductions was swallowed by traders long ago, and it did not help Hungarian producers. Unemployment has fallen over the last nine years, but not because the losers of the regime would have acquired modern skills and been employed in the labour market according to their new profession, but because the public works programme is cosmetics with these data. Let's not kid ourselves, fellow Members. The Western capital keeps us in a line of servants, and we have no small responsibility in this, and we have a joint and several. Why would the German and the English take us seriously if they saw their Member States' contributions being drained back home and their buddies stuffed out of it in the name of creating a new national capital class? Friends, who are everything but national and self-standing entrepreneurs; friends who are also talentless because they maintain loss-making trading houses in the far corners of the world; buddies who invest resources from the Union in meaningless investments, resources in which the money of taxpayers in Eastern and Western Europe is involved. Ladies and gentlemen, A sober-thinking politician directs resources where it is most needed. I hardly have to burden you with certain details, everyone is aware of the degree of disproportionate public investment. Everyone can see, not just us politicians arguing about the budget between the walls of the Parliament, but if we go out to Kossuth Square, Deák Ferenc Square or any other corner of the country and ask Hungarian citizens who are sober-thinking, everyone can see that this development of a certain sports facility is much greater than justified, while our kindergartens, schools and hospitals are waiting for renovation. Everyone has noticed that the country is almost out of reach, and because of the careless repairs to the potholes, our roads look like a Mondrian picture from a bird's view. My fellow Member mentioned that one third of the country lives in settlements of less than five thousand people. This one-third of the population is forced to live in such miserable infrastructure conditions, so far away from the most important economic centers, either from rural cities or from the capital city, that, due to this distance, this time distance, which is due to the recovery of the infrastructure, these settlements are constantly losing weight in terms of the number of souls. Dear fellow Members, We appreciate the government's family-friendly actions, and we are pleased to see that the budget allocates considerable resources to initiatives aimed at raising the nation. But this is not the time to invent a hole in the spoon! For nine years, Jobbik has warned you that we are sitting on a timed demographic bomb. Nine years ago, for the first time in our 2010 election programme, we formulated our family-friendly policy. For nine years, we have been calling for greater support for home creation. Wouldn't this nation be far ahead of us, wouldn't we all be far ahead if you had seen us as partners from the very beginning and saw the improving, constructive intention in these proposals? Ladies and gentlemen, I have no illusions, and I am aware that this budget will be voted on by you, as your current political interests require. For my part, I can make some amendments as a responsible Hungarian citizen and as a responsible politician; on the one hand, regarding the special tax on foreign police, which you have already swept off the table, but I will still bring it here, and we must talk about this proposal. First of all, I would like to make it clear that we regard the exchange of people in the country as a matter of national strategy and, more specifically, to stop it. Our young people work in Germany and England, and the NER knights and their strategic allies are organizing the installation of Ukrainian, Turkish, Far East and who knows what other national migrant workers are. Immigrants planted by Fidesz are making noise, fighting and endangering public order. Just let me get your attention for the last time. A few days ago, a couple of Mongolian migrant workers got into a fight on the Horn and ended in a stabbing. The mass appearance of economic immigrants changes the image, atmosphere of our settlements, and in the longer term they also upset the tensioned ethnic balance. I propose that the additional costs incurred by the bodies responsible for maintaining public order should be borne by those whose economic interests have caused these migrant workers to appear in these municipalities. Jobbik intends to introduce this special foreign police tax to solve this problem, which would support the work of law enforcement agencies and the wage development of small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. Ladies and Gentlemen, Allow me to ask you very nicely for a very important matter of national strategy, and this is a more important issue of national strategy, I think, as a matter of alien law enforcement, or whatever. When you vote on this budget in the final vote, I ask you not to be the party policy coordination system that determines your opinion, not which button to press. I ask you that, when you vote on this budget, with your two-thirds mandate, the best interests of the nation should be borne in mind, and not in the political coordination system, in the interests of the Fidesz-KDNP Party Alliance. If you see that there is a good proposal from the opposition benches, there is a good proposal, then press yes, please accept it, stand next to it, because it is in the interest of the nation. It is in the interests of the nation and the most important issue of national strategy that we are able to climb out of certain trenches, the first of which was built thirty years ago in this country. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-20-6	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr János Latorcai, on behalf of the KDNP faction, the Vice-President of Parliament, who wishes to speak in today's debate. I would like to point out that, during yesterday, the Parliament has contributed to the opportunity for the Vice-Presidents to speak. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
u2019-06-20-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Yesterday's speech by the President of the State Audit Office and the President of the Fiscal Council confirmed what Mr Mihály Varga said in the expozee that the Hungarian economy is on the right track. The budget proposal submitted to Parliament not only meets the relevant domestic and EU expectations, but also outlines a vision for stable and predictable growth. I would like to say this now, at the beginning of my speech, because the budget is much more than a set of figures, compared to what one of our opposition colleagues said yesterday, and then, further in his speech, he also challenged the credibility of the data that Eurostat considered to be real. Ladies and gentlemen, The budget must be a clear vision of our common incomes and spending for objectives, a kind of national target system, which always focuses on something of paramount importance. If we look at the main indicators of the 2020 budget, it is clear that families are at the heart of this target system today. This is important because if you do not want to ensure the survival of a nation by external migration, it is essential that the state helps to strengthen the financial security of families, because families and the unborn children can report and represent the future of a nation, a country. [[8.30]] In recent years, family-friendly policy decisions have demonstrated that internal demand growth due to the birth of children and the growth of families is a fundamental contribution to sustainable economic growth. Building on these experiences, the government announced in February this year a seven-point family protection action plan supporting couples with additional substantial financial benefits, so we can proudly say that the public funds for family support now account for almost 5 percent of GDP. I would like to highlight some of this package. It is planned that in 2020 there will be around HUF 296 billion for home creation support, HUF 10.5 billion for car shopping for large family members, HUF 22 billion for mothers with four children, and HUF 20 billion for baby subsidies. These are very serious sums, honourable Members. Many also ask whether this extraordinary investment is worth it. Just two days ago, the Court published an interesting analysis of the Hungarian family support policy and its numerical results, so allow me to highlight some of the most important ones. The Hungarian government spends a great deal on social support, including support for families. As a result of the complex measures, the share of budget resources, tax and contribution allowances for family support, expressed in GDP, has steadily increased. From 3.5 percent in 2010 to 4.8 percent in 2018, the amount of funds doubled in the period 2010-2018, i.e. it increased from HUF 960 billion to HUF 1929 billion, and next year, as it can be taken from the budget, it exceeds HUF 2200 billion. The SAO's analysis also shows that the effectiveness of Hungarian family policy is already visible today, since the improvement in the total fertility rate from 2011 is no longer negligible. There is, of course, much more to be done in this area, but it seems that the changes that have been made are for the future. All areas of family policy can be enriched with more resources next year than this year. For education, 48 billion, 184 billion for health care, 136 billion for pensions, 174 billion for defence and police expenditure, 32 billion forints for research and development, and 32 billion for this year. This means, for example, that the health insurance fund will have a further multi-stage wage development in the healthcare sector, while the health insurance fund will have 10.2 percent more resources next year, including a 12.2% increase in the curative-preventive care budget that is important for hospitals, i.e. 155 billion HUF, which means that hospitals will be able to calculate a month and a half extra benefits next year, and the Healthy Budapest programme will also receive HUF 35 billion next year. The funds planned for pensions also indicate that the government will expect a pension premium of HUF 20 billion next year. Few have mentioned this in yesterday's debates, although I believe that this is also an important factor for all pensioners. It is clear from the budget that the government has also provided funds for the financial recognition of employees in law enforcement, crèches, government administration, and this will continue to improve the approach to small settlements in the Hungarian village, as well as the development of road and rail infrastructure in the framework of the Modern Cities programme. Ladies and gentlemen, So next year, there will be more for health care, pensions, education, research, defence, more for the safety and quality of life of Hungarian families, while taxes will be reduced at the same time. On this basis, we can also say that the budget for the tax reduction is also a budget for the 2020 budget. The aim in this area is twofold: on the one hand, support for families, which will also be a record in the form of tax incentives next year, the budget will leave around HUF 380 billion in Hungarian households; on the other hand, support for employment, as next year's priority is that anyone who wants and can work can also get a job in Hungary. The results in this area do not fail, as the number of employees is nearly 4.5 million, and the unemployment rate is 3.5 percent not only the lowest since the regime change, but also an excellent result in an EU comparison. This has been achieved by meeting the Maastricht criteria for the budget deficit target for seven years now. The question is, of course, that, in the light of the global decline in growth, in particular the latest forecasts for the euro area and the many sources of danger outlined in the world, the 2020 budget was well-founded and maintained by the growth path and deficit target set by the government. Ladies and gentlemen, Firstly, I would like to point out that the Hungarian economy is one of the most dynamically growing economies in Europe. The figures for the 2020 budget show that the government's goal remains that, even under potentially deteriorating external market conditions, the rate of growth is at least 2 percentage points higher than the average of growth in Europe, thus continuing to catch up with a total increase of 28.6 percent in Hungarian GDP since 2010. And the source of this increase, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be sufficiently underlined, not financed by credit and especially by foreign credit, which is no more evident than the restructuring of public debt and the very important fact that the government debt ratio of well over 80 per cent in 2010 is planned to shrink to 65.5 per cent by the end of 2020 will continue to decline in debt-to-GDP ratio in the next year. Ladies and gentlemen, By 2020, the government will calculate a total deficit target of only 1 per cent and plan to provide a security reserve of 1 per cent of the total national product. This indicates very thoughtful and responsible farming. Next year we will only stretch as long as our blanket is worth, although this blanket, as we said yesterday, is growing, thanks to the strained work of the past years and the cooperation of the Hungarian people, thank God. On this basis, the Christian Democratic People's Party considers that next year's budget is a budget for stability and security, which is a solid basis for our country's further development. I therefore ask you to vote in favour of the adoption of the budget for the future of Hungarian people and Hungarian families. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[8.40]]
u2019-06-20-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2019-06-20-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, For the sixth year, I have been listening to the budget for the next year, and the only positive thing I can say from these six years is that Mr Secretary of State is sitting through these debates fairly and even trying to respond to it. Next year's budget, the 2020 budget, as in recent years, has come before Parliament without knowing the figures of the closing accounts for the previous year, without discussing it, and it will be exactly as it has been this year, that it will be amended several times in government resolutions, in all sorts of regulations, and at the end of the year hundreds of billions of forints will be thrown out of the window without even knowing the numbers of Members, we could not decide. We have seen this constantly in recent years. I would like to respond immediately to what my fellow Members have said before, because the budget for the following year does not answer exactly the problems that we have been saying here in Parliament as opposition representatives for years: this is the issue of housing, education, health and emigration and the demographic situation. Congressman Latorcai began by saying that the fertility ratio indicator had increased. We're not gonna argue about that, it's true... [[Dr. János Latorcai intervenes.]] I know, but let me tell you a fact that proves that you can cover with the fertility index, but it's the birth of a child, which is the end, which actually tells you that a government has succeeded in its policy, its budget, the birth of as many children as it should in Hungary. In 2008, I say this every year, at the outbreak of the crisis, 99 149 children were born in Hungary; in 2009 96 442; in 2010 90 335; in 2011 which we can call a very drastic year, the least children were born, although I add that this year I think we can subdue 88 049 children; in 2012 90 269; in 2012 88 689 in 13; in 2016 we managed to achieve a slightly better result, 93 063; then 89 800 children were born in 2018. And we all know that you know that we know that these numbers will not improve because the number of women of childbearing age is drastically decreasing. It should also be said that one in six Hungarian children see the light of day abroad, and about one in ten women of childbearing age are already abroad. So, the reason I'm saying is that if we don't deal with the demographic situation... and this is closely linked to housing, education, health and emigration, and they haven't given an appropriate answer in years. Since 2017, the government has allocated the budget to three parts and developed the new structure by planning the revenue in the operating budget to the same extent as the expenditure, as it simply took out as much of a number of central tax revenues as it needed for a zero operating balance. The 2019 and then a thousand billion HUF deficit will decrease to a third of next year. So much for the debate that the 2018 budget has taken into account that there are two elections in Hungary, one is the European Union and the other is the local elections. When we opposition representatives discussed that this is an election budget, this is precisely supported by the budget figures for 2020. If we look at these indicators, we can see very well that the lag is one of the strongest in Hungary compared to our region. If you look at how the rate of the forint stands in Hungary and we say this every year, then on 30 April 2010, the HUF stood at the rate of 266.28, now 322.29. We say that every year. It is true that Viktor Orbán had a statement that the basis for weak governance is that the forint is weak and that it is a condition of weak governors. This is how the sentence was said: "The weaker forint is clearly contrary to the interests of the people, the weaker forint means a weaker state, and weak forints can only be wanted by weak people. Then it can be said that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and his government have been among the weak people for years because they consciously hold the forint so weakly. If we are talking about the budget for families, it should be said here that the government has pushed the budget for support for families in the 2020 budget so much that in a separate chapter they have collected all the budget lines that are somehow linked to families. I'd like to give you a few examples: "Drink milk." From the program, the Women's pension of 40, everything was added up, so it came out that they were providing HUF 1808 billion in support plus HUF 419 billion tax relief to the families next year, totaling HUF 2227 billion. However, the macro-data contained in the annexes to the general statement of reasons for the budget show that family allowances and benefits for children reached 2.05 per cent of GDP in 2010 and only 1.28 per cent in 2020. Here we have been constantly arguing for years that the kind of care, the increase in the family allowance that was last raised in 2008... and I would also bring here the minimum pension amount, which is HUF 28 500, of which the government has calculated a lot of social benefits, has not consciously increased since 2008. And we are constantly submitting these amendments either to the minimum pension increase or to the increase in the family allowance, and here I would stress that the family allowance is the child's allowance, since 2010, we have found so-called deaf ears, simply the government refuses to raise this amount, more than 40 percent have lost this benefit to children in real terms. It is also clear in the budget lines that the budget line planned here is decreasing year after year, mainly because the number of underage children who can make use of it is decreasing dramatically. In fact, we can also mention here that the family allowance, after not having to go to school from 16 years of age, has been drastically reduced in the number of children who can use it. Women with four children will receive HUF 22 billion for the next year, while for the tax incentives that can be deducted due to severe disability, HUF 21 billion. Here I would like to refer to your grandmother and grandpa, because we saw posters during the campaign, and the poster was about a few months old child in a grandfather's lap, and the government advertised your grandpa and grandmother to be introduced next year. We always say that we need to support the resources that families have planned by the government, just, you know, when we talk about families... and you say on the basis of Christian values, when we look at a family, it's father, mother, children, and we've listened quite often to women's representatives from your side, what a woman's job is, what a mother's job is, they tell us a lot of times that a woman's place is at home, raise her children, cook for the family, and then anything that might come to her mind. We've been listening to this a lot in the last five or six years. You know, I was deeply outraged by the fact that now women are told that you don't have to raise your child as a mother, and then Grandma and Grandpa will do it. You go to work, or you do something else, you're gonna have to raise the baby with Grandma and Grandpa. You know, what I can tell you is that in a loving, entire family, it's natural for Grandpa and Grandma to be there to help the family. We love him, the Hungarian man is a family-centred man, he loves his family. But to encourage grandmothers when they should be resting and basically spending retirement years not raising their granddaughter, but just loving and helping their own family, I think it's a little bizarre. [[8.50]] The other, I would like you to tell me, Mr Secretary, that pensioners must now go back to work in a pensioner's cooperative, or that the child must be raised in the family at home. Make up your mind what you want. Either women have to act like mothers at home, or quickly return to the labour market, and then raise Grandpa and Grandma if they know if they don't or just sit there... you know what I thought about this picture? That poor grandpa couldn't stand to sit, and they put this kid in his lap so they could take this photo, and then the poor guy was crazy to go back and get some rest. Can you imagine that a retired man, whether or not he's a fan of his family, is really imagining this future for himself, that his child will be giving birth to grandchildren, and he can still raise not only his child, but his granddaughter? They've got some weird ideas, I'll tell you the truth. Perhaps we should encourage young Hungarians who have left this country to come back. And serious steps should be taken to solve the problem of young people getting housing as soon as possible. Secretary of State, you've been on the news several times, and you know how many ten years a young person has to save today, and we're not talking about having to save 10-20,000 forints a month, but even his entire salary to get a 50-60 sq m apartment. Let's just say in the country, you might have to save 40 or 50 years for that. We do not now see housing subsidies as an incentive for people to take credit. We have been given several times within Parliament's walls that in the last eight years, which will be the last ten years, what damage has been caused by foreign exchange lending and lending. Secretary of State, you are slowly placing more credit under your government than under socialist governments. Each economic operator predicts that it will be worse if a crisis breaks out, families face a worse situation than after foreign exchange loans. You want to encourage families to take credit for everything. By the way, they can tie them to clots, and you can keep them enslaved. They are not working to raise workers' salaries in an appropriate European way, but are working on how they can indebte Hungarian families and how they can break them down with foreign workers so that Hungarian workers can agree on higher wages with employers. I would also like to hear from the Fidesz MEPs about how many foreign workers have been brought into Hungary in recent years, cheap workers so that they can keep wages low in Hungary. Yesterday's news, though, has been changed for years, and the Statistical Office no longer discloses minimum living data. I think it was abolished in 2015 so that the Statistical Office, the KSH, had to give any statement of how much it is possible to make a living in Hungary today; and the minimum wage shows less than a few thousand forints, now we are talking about 95 thousand forints, so that a person would have to have a net income of 95 thousand forints in order to live a month in modest conditions. How Hungarian families live and what they can get, let us also talk about it, because Congressman Latorcai also said that a budget is not just numbers, there are people behind the numbers, there are families, and that they are able to live, feel good or not. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Do you guys go to the store? Do they? Then you need to know how much a liter of milk costs today, a kilo of pork after VAT cuts, how much a kilo of vegetables costs. You know, a broth can now be cooked more expensive than a stew made out of lean meat. I'll buy two vegetables, and I'll pay 600 forints at the store. But I could talk about a lot of things about how prices in Hungary have been freed. [[To László Böröcz:]] You can laugh, Congressman, it seems to me that you don't go to the store, or you don't have that much trouble, because we're also saying that we're very well-paid employees of the state, and if we go into the store, we have such a problem... [[László Böröcz applauds.]] You have to applaud, because that's right, Congressman, you have to say it. But to those people who are on minimum wage [[László Böröcz: You are not telling the truth, Congresswoman.]] It's a pretty serious problem for them to make a living every day. You can trick with numbers, Congressman, and you can't admit how prices got out of the store, you know, because there's a kind of hidden price increase, and there's also a kind of normal price increase, let's say, the increase in the petrol price that you let go of year after year, but there's another kind of hidden price increase. I don't know if you know that half a liter of sour cream is only 330 grams? In fact, now there's milk that isn't a liter, it's 0.9 liters. That's how entrepreneurs do hidden price increases in stores. Or if we return to the fact that you've had an initiative, the Sunday lockdown, it's about to happen, because there's so little labour in the shops. In fact, Mr Secretary of State, I hope you will admit how many thousands of convenience stores have been closed in rural settlements just because it is impossible to maintain it. They cannot sustain it, not only because of labour shortages, but it is simply impossible now to manage those costs for entrepreneurs so that they can function normally. And here we can talk about how those rural settlements are losing their right to basic service because of your poor economic policy. You don't talk about that. In services we are not only talking about how you can go to a store, but also about the proper health care, the proper care of a general practitioner, the proper care of a protective woman, the proper education system in the locality, and the ability to communicate about the settlement at all. And if we look at rural Hungary, we know very well that the smaller settlement we are talking about, the bigger, more serious problems we can talk about. The County City Association has a survey. It was not made this year, but two or three years ago, and their fellow Member János Lázár has already talked about this, there are 3,200 settlements in Hungary, that in the next period, if there is no miracle, 800 settlements will disappear from the surface of Hungary within ten years. [[Gyopáros Alpár: Thank you...]] Congressman, after ten years, it's ridiculous to refer to what they owe. I think they should thank you. When you talk about how you support families, come to rural settlements [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches, including László Szászfalvi: We live there!]] There are street lengths empty just because young people are fleeing this country. Look at how young people today, 18-year-olds, say how they want to leave this country. You know, in most cases, it is no longer the cause, it is not the problems of living that they bring up as the main aspect, but the political situation, the vulnerability that prevails in Hungary. [[To Dr. János Latorcai:]] Again, I refer to Mr President, who said that in next year's budget, the blanket will last as long as it has to be, and that is not exactly how the Member put it. It's just, Congressman, for some people, it's an awful big blanket, and for others, it's just a tiny corner. Lőrinc Mészáros's blanket, István Tiborcz, Tibor Garancsi, and we could list those entrepreneurs until morning, he has a tremendous blanket of our tax money, while others may not even have a small blanket. This budget is also an unfair budget, which does not deal with the majority of Hungarian families, and the problems that I first described were that the situation in education, the health situation, housing and a single line of young people's migration has not answered for years, Mr Secretary of State. Thank you so much for listening. [[9.00]]
u2019-06-20-10	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Before giving the floor to the speakers announced in advance, State Secretary Péter Banai Benő also applied for a speech. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-06-20-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It is difficult to say after the statement made by the Member on the 2020 budget, since, in simplifying it, I could ask that we look at the minutes of the budgetary debates in previous years, and we can read from them that the statements made by the representative are real, whether these statements are supported by facts or not, or have the opposition representatives heard the statements and arguments made by honourable Members on the government side, from the pro-government lines supporting government economic policy. Unfortunately, I have to say that it is as if we have been arguing uncompressedly for years; the same arguments are presented without any factual justification. Let me mention that yesterday, President Bertalan Tóth began his speech literally the same way as he did in the debate on the 2018 budget, so they practically drew up the earlier comment and he started saying it, and I hear the same in the voice of the Member. Then allow me to respond to some of the specifics. The first thing relates to whether it is appropriate, logically, to discuss and accept these proposals before the fiscal law and the rules establishing the tax rules and the budget attached to it. As a matter of fact, we do not even know the numbers of the accounts, it is said that a budget will be created that will then be modified by the government. Let's look at the facts. Firstly, the figures for the 2018 marketing year are known. Data on the performance of the Hungarian economy and the indicators of public finances are known on the website of both the Hungarian Treasury and the Statistical Office and Eurostat. They will also be presented as the basis for the 2019 budgetary process and, therefore, as the basis of the draft budget for 2020, in the submitted bill. The second thing that arises in this regard is that a budget will be created which will then be amended several times. Madam President, you mentioned the large number of deficits in the 2018 budget. Then let me say factually that last year's budget law has not been amended at all. Parliament is entitled to amend the law. It is not possible for the Government to amend the budget law by a regulation or a decision, as she said. This is not possible under the laws in force. And I would add that if the government did something beyond the legal framework, the State Audit Office would present this in its accounts. I don't know about that. If you think it is a problem that the government has made use of resources within the legislative framework, I can say that this is not a practice under the governance of Fidesz-KDNP, but in previous years it was also the practice of farming within the framework of the Budget Law. The big problem is that a given government does not operate within the budget adopted by Parliament. But Congresswoman knows precisely that in the previous decade there have been six consecutive years when the general government deficit in Hungary was either the largest or the second largest in the European Union; the government has simply left the framework set by the Parliament. And if you mentioned the year 18 and the large cash flow deficit, you will also be able to learn from public data that the government had advanced EU funds, so that you took up additional cash-flow expenses that were factually stated within the framework of the deficit in accordance with the EU methodology set by Parliament, that the deficit was 2.2 per cent of GDP compared to the 2.4 per cent deficit target, and that we were able to reduce the debt ratio in addition to this advance. I therefore believe that the practice that the government has conducted in recent years gives rise to encouragement or confidence that the legislative framework will be respected by the government, and if the budget law of 2020 is adopted by the Parliament, the government has a dog's duty to farm within that framework. As regards the further statements made by the congresswoman: demographic issues. Vice-President János Latorcai, I think it was clear about the vision of the governing parties, the vision of the government, and the vision that led the government when it increased support for families in the 2020 budget. Mr Vice-President said precisely that he quoted the fertility rate and said that there was still work to be done. Madam President, in addition to fertility rates, she mentioned the number of live births or the number of births of new children. This is an old debate, and I feel a little bad about the need to recall that the number of children born depends on two factors: the number of women of childbearing age and the number of fertility. It is unfortunate that the number of women with childbearing potential is decreasing. But, Congresswoman, we can't double back the number of children born in 1980! Neither the Hungarian government can do this, nor can any government in the world do it. What can we do then? What we can do is that the government and the honourable Parliament are proposing incentives that will result in childbearing not being an economic impossibility. Allow me to link demographics here with what you say is that social fragmentation is supported by the budget. Congresswoman may have said that some people have small blankets, some have bigger blankets. Yesterday, too, it has been said several times that the poorer layers are living worse and the poorer pay for the rich's growth. The only problem is that these allegations are contradicted by the facts, and the problem is, more to say, from your point of view, that their claims are not supported by facts. Let me remind you of how the minimum wage has turned out, and let us not only look at nominal numbers, but also look at the real value of minimum wages. The real amount of the minimum wage between 2002 and 10 increased by 5.8 percent for those who did not have children. From 2010 to 19 this increase is 36.1 percent. So when it comes to breaking up, in the case of minimum wage where there is no child, there was a 5.8 percent increase between 2002 and 10, 36.1 percent after 2010. Consider the situation with families who have children. Congresswoman, if you consider it important to have children, let us look at what the government has done in this regard, let us say, for those groups, for those who have the lowest income. After 2002 the real income of a child with a minimum wage decreased by 2 percent, after 2010 the increase was 49.8 percent and almost 50 percent increase. [[Interview in the ranks of Fidesz: That's nice! László Szászfalvi: What are we talking about?]] I'm not gonna tell the two kids... Yeah, I'll tell you about it with the two kids. [[Intercoms. The president's ringing the bell.]] In two children, after 2002, there was a 8.7-percent decrease in real earnings, with a 91-percent increase after 2010. Among the three children who earn minimum wage, between 2002 and 10 there is a 7.6 percent decrease in real income, and after 2010, there is a 99 percent increase. [[9.10]] Congresswoman, these figures show that real income has increased much more in the case of the lowest earners after 2010 than before 2010 or for those who raised children before 2010, their real earnings have decreased, while their earnings have increased significantly after 2010. Of course, we still have work to do in this regard, but I think that the increase in actions can be made in proportion to the performance of the economy. With regard to demographics, allow me to ask where the data on the number of women of childbearing potential, both domestic and extra-national, comes from. In front of me is the Eurostat data series, let me quote you from this. Number of citizens living in other EU Member States in proportion to population: in Hungary 4.5 percent, in Slovakia 6 percent, in Poland 6.3 percent, in Estonia 7 percent, in Bulgaria 10.4, in Croatia 10.7, in Latvia 11.1, in Lithuania 11.6, in Romania 14.9 percent. Two of the newly joined Central and Eastern European countries have less than 3.3% in Slovenia and 1.6 percent in the Czech Republic. So we can talk about the fact that, after joining the European Union in 2004, as part of the four principles of freedom, many people took up work abroad by applying the freedom of the labour force. But the statement is that this ratio is not outstanding among these 11 countries in Central and Eastern Europe, the third lowest in Hungary. Of course, we are working to ensure that as many people find their calculations at home. Congresswoman said that the economic environment is not the determining factor among those who go abroad. I hope that many people can see that the expansion of the economy is accompanied by an increase in actions. Here again, let me give you a number of criticisms of the rise in wages from your benches. Once again, let me mention changes in real and net actions. Since the turn of growth in 2013, there has been an increase in real earnings of 3.1 percent in 2013, in 14 it was 3.2 percent, in 15 it was 4.4 percent, in 16 it was 7.4 percent, in 2017 it was 10.3 percent and in 2018 it was 8.3 percent. We calculate that this significant real demand growth will continue in 2019 and we hope that it will continue in 2020. So I think that if she considers it important that the increase in real earnings results in an increasing number of people finding their calculations in Hungary, she will also find elements in the 2020 budget that she can support. As far as credit matters are concerned, the congresswoman said that if there were to be an economic crisis, this could have a much more negative impact, or it could have a near impact. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: More severe!]] is more serious than during the economic crisis in 2008-09. Allow me to argue with that statement and mention two things. The first is that we know that the crisis of 2008-09 hit the Hungarian population, the Hungarian families, because the majority of the population was in debt in foreign currency. One of the important things is that today, according to law, only the person whose income is available in foreign currency can be owed in foreign currency. So a significant risk factor was knocked out by this change. The other very important thing is that in which the government and the central bank acted together, and the central bank has put in place a regulation that makes it impossible for someone to be indebted, say, to the extent that debt would then require an excessive amount of repayment in relation to their income. So there are legal guarantees that will make the Hungarian population and therefore the Hungarian economy much more resilient in the event of such an economic problem. If Mrs President draws attention to possible negative global economic events, I think that next year's budget will also want to respond to this. Undoubtedly, economic cycles do not last indefinitely, the nature of the economy is such that there are rising and descending branches. That is why next year's budget will be low and with reserves of 1 percent of GDP. However, at the same time, we believe that both this increase in wages and economic growth above the EU average and that, for example, additional expenditure on education and health can be achieved. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-20-12	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your response and for your answers. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Kovács, from the Fidesz Group, will be speaking. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-20-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me to say a few words about the social situation within the family budget. I arrived a little late, but listening to my fellow Member Bangóné's speech, I do think that this government would like to support families with all the demographic waves we are talking about, women with childbearing potential, and not what they and their old-new leader revealed yesterday that immigrants should be accepted, strengthened the economy and used to support families, families with children and all Hungarian families who are doing so that the Hungarian economy can survive. I think that is the fundamental difference in ideology: the current government is looking at the possibility of survival of the Hungarian nation through subsidies, either by drawing up an economic protection action plan or by broadening and increasing the family support system. Let us look at the employment of people with disabilities, because I think it is also a debate currently between the opposition and the ruling party that goes back to 2012. At the time, the government decided not to pay the pension from the pension fund but to create another register from which it could be financed. However, he introduced an inverse proportional examination of people when he measured not the extent of health damage, but the degree of health preservation, and added a complex examination by examining the rehabilitation and social background. Thus, people are not receiving a kind of pension based on health damage, but are given the opportunity to rehab according to their remaining health status, according to their age, because since then this law has changed and, approaching the retirement age of their own right, there is no need to undergo any review within five years. So let's just say that at the moment 59-year-old men and 58-year-old women are guaranteed the kind of rehabilitation pension that makes them safe, but doesn't exclude them from the system that currently represents about 31 000 employees of more than 365 accredited employers to enter that system, and this budget, this government, will add 1.5 billion more to the available resources by 2020. Instead of letting go of these people's hands, we are constantly following them and trying to provide their quality of life with the kind of employment that we call rehabilitation. Allow me, for one example, to illustrate health damage and health preservation. If an economist, don't give me my Lord God, has to amputate his leg, so he will have acquired a disability, but his built environment, his workplace is completely barrier-free, then he can do his job practically a hundred percent. So the extent of the damage to health disturbs him, because he really has to use artificial legs and other means, but not his employment and economic thinking itself. If the same person is a truck driver, then we're talking 100% disability, zero health leave. So we can also talk about rehabilitation in line with his employment, his education, and this complex examination of people with disabilities also means that this should be done individually. [[9.20]] So summa summarum, the budget for 2020 pays great attention and increases the opportunities of these workers by HUF and a half billion. Let us have a few words about the care fee and the child care fee. There is also a great debate here, and I have to recall that, although the opposition has always been outraged by the fact that we say that they were not involved in this debate, they have prevented us from voting on the scale of the care fee in citations, but the government voted responsiblely on it and raised the care fee for those seriously ill children to HUF 100 thousand, and in 2020 it will be HUF 123 910, and it will rise by 5 percent every year until it reaches the normal minimum wage. So I think that the care fee and the child care fee also show a new, but at the same time responsible, thinking on the part of the government about the full-time family member of his or her family who is under 18 years of age. Allow me one or two thoughts on your social support. It is very important that, with regard to assisted housing, the inhabitants of the disincentived institutions are placed in an environment where their quality of life is better and their local social interaction and integration ensure that they feel as useful as possible within society. It is very important that there is a solution in which the maintainer wants to provide a kind of daytime service, but based on the results, it does not seem to fulfill the expectations attached to it. However, it is a very big innovation, and I think that the day-to-day institutions, or civil society organisations that represent the day-to-day supply of people who have been disincentived in assisted housing, have, in this case, dual funding in the good sense of the word, since they receive the subsidised housing normative from the institution where they live, where they have a legal relationship, and receive the norm for the number of hours where the client goes and spends his day in employment, creative work and other therapeutic employment. This is very important, because experience shows that this thing does not work as well in its own employer as it does if it is already experienced, either in a rehabilitation facility or in a day-to-day institution for disabled people or in a psychiatric day institution, so it is already an institution with experience. By doing so, I think that the additional support, the standard that can be called on the day-to-day institution, can provide a very calm, safe employment and quality of life for people with disabilities or other illnesses. Please allow me a few words about the child's meal. I think that the HUF 82.5 billion available for the institutional catering fee in 2020, in Hungarian, every child who has an institutional relationship receives a meal for free, if he is entitled because of his social need, and everyone who asks for it during the holidays and during the school break, of course the government will also provide food for the people and children who ask for it from this source, as well. This is solved by the government with the involvement of local governments, and I think there is nothing to be ashamed of, because the accusation that the child cannot eat during holidays has been available for more than five years, and once again that the highest amount, HUF 82.5 billion, has been available for children's meals since 2010. A few more thoughts about the development of the foster family network. Here there is an additional HUF 500 million in the budget for educating and educating foster parents, as the first and most important task of the state in terms of child protection is to keep children as long as possible in the families to which it was born. It is very important that no child can be removed from the family because of a financial situation, but if we highlight it, there is a state institution that provides care, a temporary home for children, or if they are born or struggling with a disease, and then there is also a residential institution suitable for their illness, but the most important thing is to strengthen the foster care network for parents who have given up their children, since raising children in family relations and in family environments are the most optimal for their quality of life and development. So the budget is also dedicated to this, and the better preparation of foster parents ensures the kind of professionalism needed to educate children, since the employment relationship of foster parents has already been introduced. I think, very briefly, allow, in summary, the support of families, including our fellow citizens, families and family members in the social institution, will be increased and budgeted for 2020. I thank the government for the presentation and ask all my fellow Members to support this budget. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-20-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Oláh, representative of the Democratic Coalition. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-20-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, Mr Secretary of State, allow me to assure you first that if you feel that the governments of Gyurcsány and Bajnai are being illegally attacked, you should ask for it, since you were in charge of the budget during that period. So feel free to answer your fellow Members if such questions arise; I think that is the correct attitude. He talks about wages. In 2020, only Bulgaria will have lower incomes, and in addition, workers will not benefit more from the goods produced in Hungary, while real wages growth is 5 percent lower than productivity growth. So it is possible to juggle numbers, and once again, Europe will only have lower incomes in Bulgaria by 2020. [[Péter Benő Banai intervenes.]] Mr. Secretary, I can tell you that you say that the same questions always arise one after another every year. Yes, you always leave the same people on the side of the road, you are not interested in those who are in a difficult line, you usually give them to those you trust to vote and give them only. Those who don't even vote because they see their situation as hopeless and leave them on the side of the road. Now, when this budget debate is taking place, families with children are still on the street. The steering window opened at the West and the East will close after a year because there is a shortage of workers. It's 35 degrees hot in the subway. These are the circumstances that we face when we negotiate the budget. Traumatologists called for a crisis meeting because they do not see patients provided. Sure, calm down, everyone, the stadiums are built, and these great training centers are loaded with money. It is no coincidence, then, that the inhabitants of Elizabeth and Teresa City feel that the government is betraying them and abandoning them. The Péterfy Hospital has been waiting for a very long time for at least one specific promise to be given to the director's statement, which means about a 15 billion-dollar development in real estate, a 6 billion-dollar development in assets, to see what is happening, and not just to talk about these abstract new hospitals, which you are trying to build in some kind of real estate poo area. There's money for all sorts of institutions that I'm sure Minister Kasler's having fun with, but there's no money for hand sanitization. The grass affects one and a half million people in Hungary today, my fellow Members, there is no protection. The damage that can be measured in agriculture, tourism, drug money is tens of billions. There is a folk tale instead of a program that does not specify specific numbers, what should be achieved, so that this one and a half billion people do not suffer. They don't determine what number of pollen they want next year, five years from now, ten years from now. [[9.30]] Public companies do not have the money to at least fulfil their own legal obligation to reap, we could talk about the MÁV, the Road or the National Parks. There's no proper medical capacity for ragweed allergies, there's an incredible line of jobs, often they don't even leave, but they heal themselves, which is the worst possible. The so-called party district is in Elizabeth and Teresa. The municipality costs more than 500 million forints to clean. For years, I've been asking you to give me more money that if the state gets billions of this party district, you give it back to the municipality, and otherwise give it back to the residents, so that they can live in decent conditions, despite the fact that they're going to be nursing until dawn. An extra HUF 1-1 billion will be provided for the costs there. We need to raise the custody fee. You may also be surprised by the fact that rooms and pubs open after 24 hours pay a total of HUF 15 million into the common register. Ridiculous. It should not be maximized as a percentage of the business tax, and the entire amount should be increased. The people of Elizabeth and Terézváros are interested in making more money to renovate condominiums, making more money to increase energy efficiency. We would like to see a theater application system that is not only good for supporting public or municipal workshops. The government will give you the money not to kill so many people in air pollution, something that can be avoided. Every year the money should be planned for the exchange of electric buses at national level, but here in Budapest in particular. We want there to be money for young people under the age of 18 to travel free of charge in public transport. Let's finally make real money for municipal housing and decent homelessness. Eventually, all students are equal. It is unacceptable for church schools to receive more money for a child, which is contrary to the spirit of the Constitution. It's important that every school gets the same care for each child, the same care for the same thing. I would therefore like to ask you to put this back in the budget. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2019-06-20-16	Thank you. Dear Parliament, A speech will be made by Mr László Szászfalvi, Mr KDNP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-20-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the KDNP faction, I would like to talk about two important areas that are very important to us: one is the area of national policy and the other is the area of church politics. Allow me to talk about national policy in a few thoughts, first on the principle and then on the budgetary context. Ladies and gentlemen, In the last eight or nine years, there has been a paradigm shift in national policy in Hungary, and we can safely say that the Hungarian nation has been reunited in a public-law sense. This process of unification has been a number of important steps. Such was the adoption of the Fundamental Law, followed by the adoption of the law of national integration and the law of dual citizenship, and then we restarted MÁÉRT, the Hungarian Permanent Conference, created the Diaspora Council, and created a system of institutions of national importance, and we can develop and expand it year after year, step by step, from time to time. We have established an extremely broad system of national policy programmes in recent years, and we have launched an economic development programme that already operates in a number of foreign communities, and it is hoped that this will continue in the coming period. Ladies and gentlemen, So we can say that, in recent times, we have established a legal, institutional and economic framework, and it is no longer just national reunification that is the goal to be set, because we have actually achieved this, we can say that, but we need to further strengthen the process of nation-building in the coming period. Perhaps I could say that the purpose of the nation-building process, its mission, is to fill the legal, institutional and economic framework that has been created so far with real life, and, of course, in this context, the negotiation of the central budget and the central budget as an asset system are of great importance. This is the filling of life with the framework, legal, institutional and economic framework with real life, we could also say that Hungarian-Hungarian relations, the creation of Hungarian-Hungarian network connections in the Carpathian Basin, which is a common national goal, our common national policy and national strategy goal, in which countless small communities take part, local communities, civil communities, religious communities, municipalities and, of course, the responsible political factors of the motherland and our foreign communities. Ladies and gentlemen, So, in the area of national policy, national strategy, continuation or renewal in continuation, it is actually the goal and the objective of the budget. In Hungarian, to preserve the values that have been created, created and strengthened in the last eight to nine years, and to broaden the system of instruments with new innovations, to find newer and newer elements of support or to launch national policy programmes that can further strengthen and further help this nation-building process. We believe that the draft budget for 2020 is a serious guarantee that we can continue this nation-building work by building on this process, strengthening it further, and building on Hungary's economic strength. Thanks to the funds provided in the draft budget for 2020 for the State Secretariat for National Policy and the Bethlen Gábor Fund, we see this kind of continuation with an increase of more than HUF 10 billion compared to 2019, ensuring the strengthening and further expansion of this national policy and nation-building activity. Allow me to draw your attention to some of the programmes and to some of the budget headings that support what has been said. In the area of the National Cooperation Fund, HUF 330 million is available, and the support of ecclesiastical persons serving abroad is HUF 420 million, HUF 5.4 billion and HUF 9.8 billion in total at the Prime Minister's Office. The various wallets also have planned frameworks from which the government supports cross-border programmes and various professional programmes of foreign communities. I would like to highlight one of these, which is of great importance: within the framework of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, HUF 34 billion will be available to support cross-border economic development programmes in the 2020 budget. The Ministry of Human Resources will support 3.3 billion cross-border higher education to support cross-border higher education. In the area of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office, we can help the development of tourism for national policy purposes by HUF 4.1 billion. I think that this will also be an extremely important step forward in the coming year. The Bethlen Gábor Fund will have 37.8 billion available for funding programmes and proposals of various national policy priorities in the coming year. I think that this is an appropriate basis and guarantee that the nation-building process can continue in the coming year. [[9.40]] Let me also highlight the infrastructure developments, in particular educational developments, which are of course of strategic importance in our cross-border communities. In particular, let me highlight the preschool development programme in the Carpathian Basin, thanks to which we have already given over a hundred new and renovated nurserys and kindergartens, and the program can continue with the third phase in the coming year. This budget will rise to HUF 47.6 billion. More than 160 new kindergartens and nurserys are built and more than 450 kindergarten and kindergarten institutions can be renewed in the Carpathian Basin with this budget support. I have just mentioned the cross-border economic development programmes and the external economic development programmes. In the South, Vojvodina, this began for the first time, then continued in Transcarpathia, and in Transylvania, Szeklerland, the third element of this economic development programme was also launched. We think that this is a huge, strategic institution, and we want to go on and on. I would like to mention or highlight the, Unlimited! The importance of the program, since more than 300 thousand Hungarian students have already been introduced to a Hungarian settlement, region or region from abroad, of course to the young people living there. We also attach great importance to this. We are also constantly increasing budgetary support for this programme, which means that every year more and more children can participate in this programme. Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up, we can therefore say that this budget, which has been this way for years, is no longer just a country's budget, but a national budget. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to talk briefly about the area of church politics. We all know that there are many elements of this, in part the activities of faith, partly the compensation process, the budgetary coverage of the so-called annuity process, and the budgetary support of the ecclesiastical institutions, educational, social and health institutions, as well as the various special community building or religious tourism or cultural programmes, heritage conservation programmes implemented by church communities, either here, in the mother country or in our foreign communities. Support for church public collections and public education institutions will increase in the coming year, from 3 billion to almost 3.2 billion. We can also speak of an increase in the function of church institutions, from 10.5 billion to 13.5 billion. The question of annuity, of course, is about annuity for non-transferable property, where valorisation, legal determination will take place, and this will be covered by the budget. We will continue to ensure the additional income of church personnel serving in settlements of less than 5 000 inhabitants, and I would like to mention with emphasis the support of church personnel serving abroad, in which particularly in Transcarpathia there is a huge importance of this budgetary support and budgetary instrument. The appropriation for the protection of church-built heritage can also increase in the budget for the coming year, as we can increase this amount from approximately 1.5 billion to almost 4 billion. Obviously, the consequences of the decisions taken here in the previous period are incorporated into this draft budget, and I would particularly like to highlight the government's support for the reconstruction of St. Michael's Church in Cluj, which will also appear in the next year's budget. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and Gentlemen, I think that, on the basis of all this, we can say that, both in the field of national policy and in the field of church policy, in the field of support for our religious communities in the motherland and abroad, our goal is to safeguard our values, our values so far created, to preserve the legal, economic, institutional and institutional frameworks that have been established so far, and not only to preserve them, but to further strengthen them, to further broaden them, and thus to further support the process of nation-building with the means of government, the financial support of the budget. I respectfully ask that we support the adoption of the budget law accordingly. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-20-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2019-06-20-19	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Today, when I was on my way to Parliament, it occurred to me that a year ago I had been lucky to participate in the budget debate, and I was still completely green and very embarrassed. I have this less today, but I still have my opinion. When I was a late mayor, I always wanted to have a say in the country's budget, or at least have an opinion about it, because at the end I experienced the advantages and disadvantages of various budgets. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You always tell me the benefits of this budget, but allow me, as an opposition Member, to tell you now what I think is not as good and not as beautiful as what you just said. This budget is not what suits Hungary in all respects, and unfortunately it is not what solves the problem of education or health, for example. In 2019 too, it is fair to say that education is underfunded, even though this area would need much more resources. Once again, the education budget will be reduced in real terms, and even the reduction will have a major impact on the area of higher education, the total funding of which will also be reduced in amounts. If you look at the last few years, the education budget is still at the level of four or five years ago. It follows that, in addition to the growing total national product, the expenditure on education in proportion to GDP is constantly shrinking. The wages of professionals working in education lack the most necessary resources. Today, a beginner teacher or assistant professor has barely more than 130 thousand forints in earnings, but there is also a lack of funds for school and university infrastructure. In most places, Hungary's education system is not able to deliver XXI. The expectations of the century, despite the strained work of the workers in it. Education is a system that allows individual and social ascension and, as such, has an increasing need for resources. We need education where, no matter what part of the country you live in, what social class you come from or which settlement you study in, in a village or in a city, you have to receive the same high level of service. If you come with a disadvantage, you have to compensate for the disadvantage of being talented, you have to care for your talent. Not only do students need to learn material knowledge, but also develop their skills and abilities to meet the changing challenges of the changing world. Hungary may not yet be the country of the best schools in the world due to its size, but this country is capable of having students who will later stand up for them anywhere in the world. We can make sure that those who want competitive knowledge and competitive wages do not have to go abroad to study and work. Any part of domestic education must be attractive and encouraging to stay at home and to show an attractive vision for families who have left abroad. [[9.50]] Dear Parliament, In the 2020 budget, it is fundamentally positive that the allocation for social services has increased, but unfortunately, the increase in aid is not uniform, it is very significant for certain preferred services, but in other cases there has been a lack of expansion. A large part of these increases are still essentially trying to compensate for the cost increase in recent years, so, with a few exceptions, this does not represent a substantial financial expansion for service providers. At the present time, there is no evidence of wage arrangements for workers in the social sector, as the system of civil servants' salaries in Annex 6 to the Act does not change, but the social sector bonus system remains, but this does not mean a guaranteed wage increase for years. In any case, it is important to increase social housing, as there is an increasing demand for elderly care today, one of which is the provision of care in social homes and the use of hospital care for a longer or shorter period. For example, the town of Komló, where there are 51 chronic medical beds and 30 nursing beds at the hop hospital. Of course, it has a permanent full house, and as strange as it is, about 30 people have been living here for years. Unfortunately, there is no place for these people, because hop social homes operate at maximum capacity. This means that the waiting time is about two years. Currently, the number of people waiting is close to 200, but let's see what this looks like for funding. The standard of social homes is nearly 700 thousand forints a year, until the chronic medical or nursing department receives 7,000 forints per day, and if you multiply it by 365, this is 2.6 million forints. However, social homes can provide a much higher level of service, since there is a psychologist, a physiotherapist, a highly qualified programme organizer and so on. In addition, it is a major problem that, contrary to what has been mentioned above, church-owned social, health and educational institutions receive higher normative support and separate grants to institutions. So this also shows that in fact this higher funding is the one that really helps to organise the supply well. I believe that it is legitimate that those who have a state self-government reserve also receive these amounts. It is important that better financial conditions have a strong labour market absorption power of church institutions, so there may be huge differences in quality between church and state institutions due to higher normative support for them. It is also important to talk about general care. The settlements of Hungary are facing a huge problem, as many of the unfilled GP practices and within a few years several doctors will be retired, which will result in further increases in the number of unoccupied districts. I think we need to find effective solutions, because thousands of patients can't be left without general medical services. It is clear that OEP funding does not cover the real costs of GP practice. This could be solved by raising the GP's score. Unfortunately, the current funding cannot be used to replace, for example, obsolete, damaged assets. While, fortunately, the settlement of specialist wages has begun in recent years, unfortunately, the funding of GPs has not caught up with this. The other similar problem, which is related to the previous ones, is the provision of medical care among the tasks to be performed by the municipalities. The problem is that this care has been outsourced almost everywhere, and it is therefore extremely difficult to involve doctors in on-call care. GPs contract 24-hour care, but most of them are unfortunately unwilling to participate in on-call care. The solution may be that a doctor who signs a contract with a territorial supply obligation should be required to provide for an on-call service, of course, in return for appropriate remuneration. What's untenable is that in a city of 22,000, there are three doctors who are on call all the time. The funding is too low, from 3:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. the doctor provides the emergency services for which he is entitled to approximately HUF 3500 per hour. On the other hand, doctors expect an on-call fee of at least HUF 7,000 per hour from the maintainer. However, municipalities can only make a minimum contribution, which cannot compensate for low funding, so a significant increase in the on-call fee would also be justified. I would like to join my fellow Member, Mr Stummer. I might even quote your words literally, but I was not able to say this specifically, that we are representatives of a nation, and I think that the opposition can make suggestions, that opposition representatives can also bring up problems that are worth considering, and even not yet give me a god, incorporate us into the law, and not sweep it off without thinking. Thank you for the floor.
u2019-06-20-20	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Statement will be made by Mr László L. Simon, Fidesz Group. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-20-21	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that in the budgetary debate, culture should not be forgotten in the many important sectors. The current government budget plan provides us with an opportunity to learn important lessons from this point of view. Ladies and gentlemen, The area led by Minister Miklós Kásler and the Secretary of State Péter Fekete, I think he has done a very decent job, along with the Péter Banais, and a very good and sound budget plan has been submitted to the House. The resources needed to maintain Hungarian culture and the resources needed to maintain cultural institutions would not only have decreased, but it is a growth similar to that of previous years that can be shown. Allow me, fellow Members, not to talk in general about what the Hungarian State is spending money on maintaining in the field of culture and in what way we are financing sub-areas. We are all aware that we contribute to the maintenance of local government institutions through the Ministry of Interior in a normative form, to the maintenance of certain institutions and municipal institutions directly through the Ministry, through the Ministry of Industry. I'd be avoiding these questions right now. I would like to focus on a number of important issues, as it is very important that the large investments in culture launched by the government in 2010 will continue in the coming years. These represent a very significant resource transfer to the world of culture. It is not only the increase in the mass of resources and its presence in the draft budget law that is remarkable, but it is the fact that it is possible to make investments that bring about a tangible improvement in the quality of the Hungarian cultural life and the general public, the conditionality of the creation, the condition of the cultural broadcasting, which greatly improves the sense of comfort and otherwise preserves our values. I would like to point out some of these areas. The first thing that is particularly important is that one of the government's prestigious investments is the modernisation of the building of the Hungarian State Opera House on Andrássy Road. The building of the Hungarian State Opera House on Andrássy Road, the project aimed at renovating and modernising the related facilities, the renovation of the facade of the Opera House, the modernisation of the stage technology, the replacement of the GDR technology built in the early eighties, the improvement of acoustics and the comfort level of the spectators, the reconstruction of the orchestral trench, the restoration of monument decorations, accessibility, and the replacement of the Opera House's public utility network, which was very timely, the installation of its weak current system, the operation of the necessary functions within the building and the renovation of the Opera House's Hajós utca plant. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] From 2015 the government provided HUF 30 billion for this investment. In order to carry out the investment, the contract was concluded as a result of the general contractor's procurement, while some important things were not included due to the different level of the contractor's offer and the government's resources. These are items which form part of the original renovation concept. [[10.00]] However, they need to be implemented in order to make the investment functionally complete. I would like to mention a few things to my fellow Members: the settlement of the public area around the building, full restoration work in the areas of community traffic, the more demanding renovation and acoustic modernisation of the operating areas, and the move of the centre of sales to a more accessible location. And there are statues of high value in the building, the restoration of which is also unprovoked. At the same time, based on the necessary architectural surveys and samplings, restoration explorations and historical research carried out during the construction process, the extended concept of renovation to restore the historical light of the Opera House was outlined in 2018. This is the so-called Ybl program. So all this still requires funds, so according to the draft budget law of 2020, the government provides HUF 4.9 billion for this purpose. At the same time, it is important that the Hungarian government not only supports large public investments, but also supports private investments in the event that they are really important value-creating investments, so, if we are already in the genre of opera, let us mention that in 2020 the Hungarian government will also support a modern opera investment. This modern opera investment is created by the Budapest Music Center, to which the Orbán government contributed very significant resources already when it was founded and in the period after it was founded. The BMC was established in 1996 and it intended to create a worthy place for Hungarian music culture in international music life. The BMC is determined to create the music center where everything is about music and where everything related to contemporary music can be found. As you know, my fellow Members, we contributed to this concept after 2010 with significant resources, and as a result, the Mátyás utca centre was established in downtown, which was opened in 2013. In order to be aware of the background of this investment, the share of State aid was 27 percent, the ownership capital was 30 per cent and 43 per cent of the bank loan, so this is an example of how a successful private investment in culture can be made if the government is encouragingly helping to secure the lack of funds. The speciality of the BMC music center is in its complexity: it includes the first chamber music concert hall in the country, the jazz club, an information centre and library, as well as a record label. This is where the Eötvös Péter Contemporary Music Foundation found its home, which involves world-famous artists in training young conductors and composers. The success and viability of the event centre implementing more than 700 programmes per year is the reason why the Hungarian government should be supportive of further development plans. Now BMC wants to create a modern opera. This will be located in a building adjacent to the existing building of the BMC. The government has already contributed to the purchase of this building and the land, and the following year it also intends to provide support for the construction, if we also accept this part of the budget law, which I would definitely suggest to my fellow Members. This modern opera has prepared and handed over a professional concept to the cultural secretary of state, which does not interfere with the operation of the State Opera House, so it does not mean competition for it, but complements the repertoire of the Erkel Theatre, the Hungarian State Opera House, and focuses primarily on the presentation and dissemination of contemporary opera works. The BMC will make modern opera investment with budget support of HUF 2 billion and expected HUF 3.5 billion from own resources and bank loans. The first HUF 1 billion tranche has already been transferred in 2017, this is what helped prepare the project, buy real estate and design; in 2020 the construction will start with the planned second HUF 1 billion grant. The building with a capacity of 700 people is planned to be completed by 2022. It is important to talk about another matter, this is the Imre Makovecz Fund. The Hungarian government considers the preservation and care of the oeuvre of our excellent architect between 1935 and 2011. This international-ranking, fantastic Hungarian architect has left behind a number of buildings that are worth preserving in the long term. The care, maintenance, renovation of these and the preservation of sets belonging to important stage works created by Makovecz and other artistic works of Imre Makovecz, such as the reconstruction of the Sárospataki drinking fountains, I think it is important for the public. Between 2016 and 2020, the Hungarian government spends HUF 12.6 billion on this purpose, and the renovation of major buildings has already been completed. Think of the Onion House in Makó, the church in Cluj, and I could tell you more, but there are many other buildings, including private buildings, which are an important part of the Makovecz oeuvre, and that is why it is worth renovating them with state help. I must highlight from the draft budget law the resources for the development of the National Institute of Culture and the Lakitelek People's College. In the context of the revision of the ministerial background institutions in the form of budgetary bodies, 1312/2016 on measures for the review of central offices and ministerial background institutions in the form of budgetary bodies. In the framework of a government decision, the government decided that the tasks related to the professional service of public education at national and regional level were established by the National Institute of Culture Nonprofit Kft., founded by the foundation of the Folk College from 1 January 2017. take care of it. So, in fact, the government has assigned a very important professional task in this way to the Lakitelek People's College in the framework of a very thoughtful and good concept. For successful operation, EMMI concluded a public service contract with the National Institute of Culture. In order to ensure the infrastructure conditions necessary for the performance of the tasks, the Népfőiskola Foundation Lakitelken built a new headquarters for the National Institute of Culture Ltd. Before my fellow Members ask why this is necessary, let us quickly note that the former National Institute of Culture, whose tasks were taken over in full by the nonprofit company, operated in the Buda Vigadó building on the Buda side, which was also completely renovated by the government, and in which the House of Tradition operates in its entirety, so that the State People's Ensemble and the House of Tradition can use this fantastic building, which is why the National Institute of Culture needs a new building in Lakitelken. For the first phase of the building investment, the central budget already provided HUF 1 billion 581 million in 2017 and the second phase was decided this year: the HUF 1.5 billion of HUF 1.6 billion needed to complete the investment will be paid this year, and the remaining HUF 100 million will be provided by the next year's budget. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that the genderless political attacks, in which they are constantly talking about the government building new stadiums, are forgetting how much the government is investing in the renewal of rural cultural infrastructure. Here I would particularly like to mention the reconstruction of the theatres. As you know, my fellow Members, this year the comprehensive renovation of the theatre in Kaposvár will be completed, the renovation of the theatre in Győr will soon begin, and the next year's budget will result in the renovation of two theatres, one of which will be the Szigliget Theatre in Szolnok. It is a building handed over in 1912, which was last renovated in 1991, and the modernisation of which is absolutely necessary. So this is one of the important theater investments in the coming years. The renovation plan was completed in the summer of 2016 and the investment was estimated at HUF 3.6 billion. The government already gave HUF 250 million to Szolnok for preparation in 2017, and since construction prices have increased since then, the government will contribute HUF 3 billion to the investment by HUF 980 million. Of which 1 billion already happened in 2019 and the remaining HUF 2 billion will be provided by the government next year. [[10.10]] Just as important is the renovation of the Katona József Theatre in Kecskemét, which was last updated between 1985 and 1987, then it took part in a stall and maintenance and the reconstruction of the roof took place six years ago. There is not only a need for renovation, but also for the expansion and internal reconstruction of the Ruszt József Studio Theatre. This is a very important investment, for which the government gave Kecskemét 239 million HUF 800 thousand to prepare. Of this, 119 million HUF 300 thousand has already been transferred in 2019 and the remaining 120 million HUF 500 thousand will be charged with the 2020 budget. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to a few appropriations or allocations from the draft budget law to see which areas the government considers to be particularly important to finance and where there may be additional resources available. The National Historical Memorial Park of Ópusztaszer has 228 million 800 thousand forints. The national value-saving programme of public collections and public collections is worth HUF 529 million, of which approximately HUF 80 million for museum tasks and the rest for library and archival tasks. The digitalisation strategy of public collections will receive HUF 800 million the following year. There are HUF 12 million in direct support of cultural foundations. At the Trianon Museum there is 300 million forints for renovation and operation. We can provide 69 million HUF for the scientific professional projects of the Árpád-ház program in the following year. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition, I have to mention the Hungarian Institute of Research, which was founded by the government this year. The Hungarian Institute of Research also integrates the Gyula László Institute, and therefore they plan not only to fully explore and care for the legacy of Gyula László, but also to launch important programs that are crucial to the Hungarian prehistoric history. The budgetary support for this is also reflected in the draft budget law 2020. I have already said a word about the House of Tradition, which deals not only with the maintenance of living folk art, but also with the maintenance of the Hungarian State Folk Ensemble, as well as with the operation of the Lajtha László Folklore Documentation Centre and the maintenance of a folk art methodology workshop that, I think, is crucial for living folk culture. The budget of the House of Tradition will also ensure a stable operation next year. I would like to return with one more word to support the Lakitelek Folk College, as the Lakitelek Folk College includes not only the National Institute of Culture Nonprofit Kft., but it also carries out a lot of important tasks. In the following year, the government will provide HUF 625 million for the operation of the Lakitelek People's College, research, educational activities, cultural, social activities, adult education and conferences. Do not go past the film area, as the government provides extremely important budgetary resources for the production of Hungarian documentary film, portrait film production, animation films, and provides 142 million HUF of support alone. This ministry support, and of course, through the proposals of the National Film Fund, the public television and the Media Council, we spend billions of HUF on film financing. I would like to point out that, in addition to redeploying Tao resources, there will also be a direct source of funding in the next year's budget to support performance-art activities, and the Government considers it particularly important to support priority cultural festivals. To mention just a few: National Theatre Meeting in Pécs, Zemplén Festival, Valley of Arts, International Dance Meeting, Kaposfest and others. The planned budget for these festivals next year is 750 million HUF. Once again, this is a source beyond Taós and national cultural resources. The Ministry has 1 billion HUF 422 million in resources available for public education and professional work. This does not, of course, include the source provided by the government through the Ministry of Interior to ensure the performance of mandatory tasks on a normative basis. In the performance of public education tasks, I note that we are indebted to only one thing, and we must pay attention to this in the coming years: the wage development of public education and public collection workers. Thank God the government has taken a big step here, because in the Petőfi Literature Museum, it's like a pilot program. In addition, along a highly thought-out career concept written by the staff of the Museum, this wage development will take place and has already started this year. If this is successful, I think that all other national public collections, as well as rural public collections, rural museums, archives, libraries and public culture workers, should be considered, obviously taking into account the budgetary frameworks, taking into account the stability of the Hungarian budget. Ladies and gentlemen, It should also be noted that in the following year, the Ministry of Culture has also been able to provide funding for the further training of cultural professionals, if we vote in favour of the law. This total is 119 million 600 thousand forints. The operation of the Csoóri Sándor Fund started last year. As you know, the Csoóri Sándor Fund provides a safe, predictable and predictable, supportive environment that guarantees the long-term value-based activity of the organizations of the entire folk art movement not only in the motherland but also throughout the Carpathian Basin, and which is very important in the sporadic area. The government will provide 3 billion forints next year. There is also a direct appropriation for the financing of artistic activities, which is HUF 2 billion 333 million 800 thousand. In addition, additional resources are available at the National Cultural Fund. In accordance with European Union rules and in accordance with the Council of Europe directives, there are special royalties that the Hungarian government directly finances, so that they are not collected in the same way as in Artisjus' case that the service providers pay for the music service. Such a special royalty in the European legal system, and so in our case, is the public library rental royalty, which will be covered by the government for HUF 160 million next year. Actually, there is one very important thing that we rarely talk about, even though it was a very big struggle to settle it. In 2011, the Orbán government settled a long-term debt: then a government decree solved the fact that it was created in the time of socialism, now it is called a pension fund, an artistic pension, which actually created payment entitlements by means of resources deducted from works of art sold by Hungarian artists, so the official name of this so-called artistic pension is pension aid today, and in 2010 the second Orbán government settled the reliable and stable payment of this. It was then that a government decree was issued that guarantees that through the Directorate-General for Pension Insurance a pension supplement for artists who, as I said, paid in socialism for all their sold works, especially those sold through the Picture Hall Company, would take a certain part in the hope that they would receive a pension later. For this purpose, the Hungarian government will provide HUF 1 billion 438 million and HUF 600 thousand in 2020. I think it is extremely important that this system works, and those who have done a fair artistic activity and even made an income for the state during the period of socialism receive the pension supplement today. I consider it important that in the coming years the Hungarian Writer's Association will continue to be supported directly by the government with HUF 30 million operating support. I note that between 2004 and 2010, I worked there in the Writer's Association, and I know exactly what it was like when less than 10 million operating grants were transferred by the government during the first week of December and should have been spent and accounted for in 30 days. [[10.20]] So they did everything they could to bleed out such civil society organisations. Thanks to God, the Writer's Association is now guaranteed a stable operation of 30 million forints. Ladies and gentlemen, Speaking of CSOs, let's note that our government doesn't do that. For example, the Science Society is still supported by the Ministry, the Government of Hungary is sacrificing HUF 22 million to support the KIC. I would like to point out a few other programmes. It is particularly important that the instrument exchange programme continues, which is very important, because there are a lot of institutions in the country with musical education that do not have modern instruments. The Hungarian government contributes to the exchange of these with significant resources. I would also like to highlight the support of the musical band of Hungarian Radio. After all, it is one of the most important Hungarian music groups, if we only think about the children's choir of Radio, then the many decades of sacrifice they do there cannot be ignored from the point of view of musical education. So I'm glad that this is included in the draft budget law. I've already mentioned the Tao. Of course, the government will also provide resources in the budget next year. What appears as a budgetary resource in the performing arts area by eliminating Tao subsidies, on the other hand, is returned by the government to the performing arts organisations. We hope that next year we will be able to apply more flexibly and faster than we did this year, but I think that the Black Secretarys of State are working on this with great powers and great professional competence. I would like to refer to some specific small subsidies in this way at the end. One of them is the continuous support of the Budapest Spring Festival. I would like to point out that, in this respect, the government is also in favour of the capital culture and the art world. In fact, the Budapest Autumn Festival has been secured by a government decision for several years now, since 2017. The support of the 100 Gypsy Orchestra has been unbroken since 1987; and, of course, there are some things that appear as new programmes in culture, especially programmes that strengthen national identity. Such is the Lázár Ervin programme, which provides the primary school students with free theatre, dance and circus performances, classical music concerts, and shows of indigenous animals. I think that this is also an important program, we hope it will be successful. Also, Mr. Black Secretary of State has developed a program for sports facilities in the service of culture, which clearly shows that on a French sample, where it is very well organised at state level, that sports facilities, such as stadiums, are also suitable for large concerts, special theatre events, so it is for an extra use that is different from the original function. I hope that this programme will also be a success with sufficient budget support. Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, I can say that the positions of Hungarian culture in this draft budget law, not only did they not deteriorate, but they were definitely strengthened. We thank the Government of Hungary for this. I hope that we will do the few little things that we need to correct in the coming years, and that we will also be able to provide benefits for culture through tax policy, which, by the way, leave resources in the sector. In other areas, we see an example of this. It is very right that, on the proposal of the Hungarian Government, we will reduce the VAT on accommodation services in the field of tourism, for example, from 2020, thereby generating tourism and bleaching the sector's revenues further. A similar reduction in VAT would be possible later in the performing arts area, for example, but this is already a matter to be discussed in the tax laws debate. I think the budget is stable and good. Thank you, and I propose to my fellow Members your adoption. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-20-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, From the Group of Dialogue, Mr Sándor Burány applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-06-20-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, We often argue in the budgetary debate whether the budget presented is economically and financially sustainable. I think it is time to add a new aspect to this inquiry: we need to examine whether the budget presented is socially sustainable in any year, the current budget. If what our pro-government colleagues have to say, if we look at the budget rating, it could be described in one word, it is that it is good to sum up what the opposition representatives have to say, then it is that it is not good. If we look at this budget from the point of view of social sustainability, it can be described in one word: it is unsustainable. We need to get used to this complex thinking. It is not enough to comply with the convergence programme, it is not enough to follow a reliable macro-track, it is not enough to pursue a balance of public finances, it is necessary to pursue a balance between society. And that's what's been going on in this country for almost nine years. We also need to learn this complex way of thinking because we also need to get used to the fact that we do not simply have to look at how much the annual growth is, we need to see if this economic development, this growth is environmentally sustainable. That it is sustainable that we do not have to go to distant continents now and watch reports scared about the amount of plastic waste in the oceans and seas, but that it is enough to take part the other day in a Tisza-tavi tour, where they tried to get rid of PET bottles and other garbage, hopefully effectively, of this beautiful natural, albeit artificially created formation, which could function as a water paradise since then. So he's banging on the door, and he's not banging, and the climate crisis is kicking the door down. When in Hungary one week there is still a fading heat, people almost don't faint at graduation celebrations, so that the next week there will be a flood that hasn't even happened yet. We have become accustomed to the fact that, after raining as a flood, say, some of the roads are flooded at the threshold of the cars, now we have to get used to some of our roads turning into a mountain stream, and not on the threshold, but completely inundating it, as happened yesterday in Hungary. So climate change kicked the door in. The fact is that social problems, the untenable development of society in this direction have also kicked the door in. For nine years, we have had to get used to terms like the "worker's crisis" or "worker's poverty". Unfortunately, these are interrelated concepts. While these were previously dangerous in various studies, today our daily lives have become a reality in today's Hungary. And I am talking not only about small settlements, where there is no shop anymore, because there is no priceable demand, and the micro-business cannot manage the costs of maintaining the store, but we are also talking about Budapest, because those who want to study closely what conditions workers' poverty and housing crisis will result, it is enough to take a short tour with me in my own constituency, and we will go, say, to Kőbány, or to Bihari Street or Hero Street, and then the state of this society will become tangible and visible, that the housing crisis and employee poverty can create not only in small, hidden settlements, but also in Budapest, what inhuman and impossible conditions it can create. [[10.30]] Allow me to look at how this trend will continue in certain figures of the Finance Act in the following year, if the pro-government majority will accept it in this form. Let's start with inflation. According to KSH data, inflation has not been as high in seven years as it has been in Hungary in recent years. Unfortunately, inflation has not only been recorded in Hungary, but in Hungary, which has not been seen for seven years.Unfortunately, Hungarian inflation is already the list leader in Europe, in the whole European Union, only Romania has preceded us in terms of inflation. So Hungarian inflation figures are also very bad in international comparison. And while inflation has not been seen in the country for seven years, we see that the inflation planned for next year in the draft budget law is 2.8 percent, and, of course, this figure is the same as the pension increase planned for 2020. As a reminder, the government calculated a 2.7 percent inflation this year, but according to Eurostat data, this is actually 4 percent. Of course, the pro-government representatives can say that the law guarantees that if actual inflation exceeds what is planned, pensioners will get it back at the end of the year in the form of compensation. However, with this now becoming common practice, it is the government that uses a significant part of the pensioner's money, by not having this money on the pensioner's account, because they didn't get it in time, they received it in retrospect as compensation, but it enriches the treasury of public finances in the first place, which means that the government is using the money of pensioners. Even though it compensates them at the end of the year, it is a relatively slim consolation for spending during the year. In addition, in sensitive areas that are particularly hit by pensioners, even though prices have run out of date, it is enough to mention that the price of pigmeat in inflation figures has increased by almost 9 percent compared to the same period in the last year, the price of bread has also increased by more than 7 percent in a single year. But if we look at the evolution of drug prices, which is also a very sensitive area for pensioners, we find pretty brutal data there. If we look at the increase in prices between 2000 and 2017, this is, of course, a rather long time span, then we can see that prices have increased by almost 160 percent in Hungary, and unfortunately this is also the highest value in the whole European Union. Compared to this, the gross amount of the drug register will increase by nearly 9 percent to almost HUF 400 billion next year, but last year the population spent 517 billion on medicines and nearly 120 billion of them on prescription medicines. It also shows that there is an increasingly unsustainable situation, even if we take into account hospital conditions, that there is a chance of recovery in Hungary, who has enough money. This results in a tragic situation. If we're gonna stick with the pensioners, we're gonna have to retire. Well, as a reminder, this pension premium was introduced by the Bajnai government. It is now possible for pensioners to get something back from economic growth by means of this law on the pension premium introduced. However, it seems that the government is too careful in this area, as the difference between actual economic growth and planned economic growth has been calculated by pensioners' interest protection organisations to save about HUF 10 thousand per pensioner. This money should be given to the retirement society. So if we're talking about the money for pensioners, what we can see now is not in the first year that the government is always underplanning, and then trying to make up for it, instead of giving the pensioners what they deserve in the first place with the right planning. Karinthy's very fitting saying in this area, he said that what the government promises to keep, therefore, if you promise money, you will keep that, too. Let us see that, in the area of housing crisis, the government has faced the situation on the basis of the draft budget law. Apparently not. In such a split society as we experienced after 2010, it is increasingly the government's strategy and policy that the better a person is, the more he can count on the government's help, and the worse a person's situation, the more the government leaves them on the side of the road. It is very instructive, however, that when you go to the Parliament and listen to radio while driving, analysts on one of the commercial radios talk about whether you have a good investment in raising baby shower support, because if the conditions are met, this is a very important criterion for an interest-free loan, say, up to HUF 10 million, and you should immediately buy a government bond, which I am correct, Mr. Secretary of State? Its return is expected to be around 4 percent; therefore, to take a preferential loan on family support, a zero-percent loan, so that we are talking about sovereign debt in an investment bond. It is clear that this type of preferential loan is primarily a number of married people, when they will go to the banks and face the conditions, will see the real criteria, no matter how much progress it represents for tens of thousands of families, we are talking about a country of nearly 10 million, in fact, the possibility of the few. Few families will have the income to make sure that the loan repayment details are met. All the more so, because if we look at how the house prices in Budapest have changed, as well, about brutal price increases, we look at the fact that, according to the reports, housing prices in Europe have increased to a greater extent in Moscow and Kiev than in Budapest. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank already warns that the real estate prices here in Budapest are completely out of touch with reality. What represents an investment risk at the Hungarian National Bank, which must be warned, for the masses of young married couples, means that the purchase of their own apartments is becoming increasingly unattainable. This would not be a tragedy in itself, since in countries far richer than Germany, Scandinavian countries do not have a large proportion of people owning homes, but there is a rental system unlike Hungary that can be rented from incomes there, even from modest incomes. In Hungary, in Budapest, this situation is quite simply not so. A family with modest incomes in Hungary today will not be able to bear the terms of the loan repayment sufficiently, nor will it provide sufficient money to live in Budapest for rent in addition to today's rental prices. Well, this is where workers' poverty meets the housing crisis, and this is increasingly creating unsustainable conditions, my dear House. In conclusion, in our view, it is now time to address the category and concept of social sustainability, and to face the fact that Hungary is not a Canaan: due to the income and tax policy of which the country has suffered over the past nine years, an increasingly fragmented society is being outlined, a very narrow, more and more living layer and a very large, increasingly dissipating layer of life for many. [[10.40]] This should be changed in the first place, but this budget does not even attempt to do so, so, in our view, this budget is not only socially unsustainable, it is also unacceptable here in Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-06-20-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mrs Dúró Dóra. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-06-20-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I will start with the most important: with family policy measures, because I do not think it is worth discussing that there will be a new increase in family policy support. At the same time, I would like to add that the kind of fertility growth expected or expected by the government in the last nine years has not happened. Even though there has been no baby boom in Hungary in the last nine years, the government has really focused on family policy, and I believe that the most important thing both in terms of budgetary implications and in terms of professional measures is efficiency, because it alone will not save our nation if we spend more on family policy. It will save Hungary, and it will make Hungary a growing country again if the hoped-for children, the desired children, can indeed be born. At the same time, despite all professional measures and all budgetary allocations, the substantial increase or magnitude of fertility did not occur during the Fidesz administration. And this is the fact that we have to face, this is the fact that we need to highlight to us the need for a change of perspective, for which this government has done little, and there is a need for further professional measures that actually help young people, couples, to bring the children they plan, whom they want into the world. At the same time, it should be noted that, for example, there are elements in the recently announced family protection action plan that have a negligible budgetary impact, not only in terms of the overall budget, but only in terms of family policy expenditure. For example, the absence of mothers with four children, which is indeed a very nice gesture, and all the measures that go on for the rest of one's life, are very great recognition. And this is really important for mothers who have at least four children, but there are very few women in Hungary whose salary allows them to benefit from this discount, because they have managed to build a career with four children that is around HUF 1 million net. In addition, the budgetary implications of the Grandparent child are also similar, for which I am not a fan, or I do not want to question the government's good intentions regarding the introduction of these measures. At the same time, it is important to see that these measures will not bring about any increase in fertility that is necessary to achieve the objective which you have set, which you have set, by the way, by Viktor Orbán. Moreover, we need to talk about a sensitive subject that also questions the government's commitment to Christianity. This is, for example, that the individual fee for termination of pregnancy is still included in the budget on a separate basis, and no change to the regulation of abortion has been made by this government. Therefore, we can say that the Hungarian Movement represents only the pro-life concept in Hungarian political life. Technically, from Fidesz to Momentum, a very broad pro-abortion coalition was formed. In addition, support for civil society organisations that protect lives is lagging behind from other countries, such as Poland, which has a very similar social structure as Hungary. So, compared to Poland, we are also extremely behind in this. In fact, if they get close to these civil society organisations and look at the sacrifice they have been doing for decades, both small and large, then I think that all good people, all people committed to life, should be able to support these very often hopeless, life-saver civil organizations, such as the Alfa Alliance, which I must highlight on account of their commitment. However, there are a number of national missions which are also not supported by the government, and we hope that our amending proposals will finally come to an end. One of the experiences of this year is that what the Bethlen Gábor Fund is voting for, for example, is not being respected. The story with the Hungarian Island of Felvidék was that the Bethlen Gábor Fund would have provided 500 thousand HUF's support for this festival. At the same time, when European left-wing politicians noticed this and drew attention to it, the government withdrew the support with a feather stroke to the pressure of those who had already destroyed their own nation. They were chosen by the government instead of those Hungarian patriots who organize festivals in their free time across borders with national political goals. This reality, the reality is that they have repeatedly shown that they have met the expectations of the European Left rather than supported Hungarian patriots with HUF 500,000. Five hundred thousand forints! Shameful, I think. But I have to highlight the activities of the National Protection Foundation and National Protection Service, who have been protecting patriots for nearly a decade and a half, wherever they live in the world, across the border, or as emigrated Hungarians, if they are attacked because of their nationality, and they do not receive any penny of state support. KDNP spoke about how committed this government is to national policy. Well, just when what happens to the university in Târgu Mureş is what happens to the cemetery in the Uzvölgy, which can be seen by the government not being able to pursue an effective policy in this respect either. In addition, in the Romanian Parliament, a Member initiated the construction of an orthodox church in the Uzvölgy with the support of Orthodox high priests. This is why we want the Hungarian government to at least ensure that Hungarians there can exercise their right to free religion and build a Catholic chapel in Uzvölgy with Hungarian state money so that we do not allow this Romanian conquest to continue. We hope that they will not only be able to pay their own organisations the huge amount of money that is assigned to the national political goals, but also to support the intelligent goals that the opposition has initiated. For this reason, the Hungarian Movement does not, of course, support the budget. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-06-20-26	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next speaker was Mr Ritter Imre, Member of the Nationality. Here you go.
u2019-06-20-27	Thank you. Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschlages Nr. T/6322. uber den ungarischen Haushalt im Zusammenhang mit dem Nationalitätenbedarf übergreifende Teilen heute ausführlich erörtere. Mr President, Dear House, Allow me to express our position in more detail today on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary at T/6322. Legislative bill No. 1 concerning certain aspects of national needs. But before I got to that point, I would like to point out that, in my speech yesterday, the Deutsche Punktlichkei, i.e. the German accuracy, had been slightly impaired, because I said my speech more slowly than I should have, so it took two minutes longer than I had planned, and therefore Vice-President Félix Farkas could not express his full and planned contribution, for which I would like to apologise to him; at the same time, to say what Mr Vice-President could not do in the absence of time yesterday. So I would like to quote yesterday's missed speech by the Roma advocate Félix Farkas. I would like to mention, as a third point, that the amount allocated to support institutions maintained by the National Roma Municipality is the same as in the draft law on next year's budget. The institutional framework was established after its establishment, broken down into institutions in all municipalities. [[10.50]] The National Roma Municipality currently has six institutions: employment networks, media centers, missions, sports centers and two schools, Szirákon and Tsúdüspöki. The revenue of the two public education institutions is the budgetary resource provided for the performance of the public education tasks. This support provides only the possibility to operate, and additional resources are needed to carry out tasks, programmes and improvements, and the Committee would therefore like to make use of this increase in its amending proposal. Finally, let me say a few words about the amount allocated to investment, renovation and tendering for the domestic Roma sector. According to our calculations, 80-100 Roma municipalities and civil society organisations maintain cultural institutions that help them to catch up, such as schools,, Commissioner, children's homes, landscape houses, collections, community houses, which are the cornerstones of cultural autonomy and which are of particular importance for the preservation of cultural values, landscape houses, collections, community organisation, training, employment, social and legal protection services in the case of the Roma. The Nationalities Committee of Hungary agreed at its meeting on 11 June 2019 that, like the amount allocated to investment, renewal and tendering in the chapter of the Prime Minister's Office in 2019, the possibility of supporting national minority institutions in this way should be provided for Roma in the chapter of the Ministry of Interior in 2020. End of quote, which was canceled yesterday. Instead of Mr Vice-President, the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary unanimously agreed with and supports the proposals made by me, as well as the amendments made by Mr Felix Farkas in person yesterday, concerning the Roma. After this unusual detour, I would like to address my comment today. Yesterday's speech was concluded by drawing up the budget needs of Hungarian nationalities in 2020 on the basis of extremely detailed and thorough surveys and analyses. We have already consulted national national minority self-governments, of course national minority advocates, and discussions are ongoing with the parliamentary factions and the purses responsible for nationalities. On this basis, the 13 Hungarian nationalities intend to submit a total of HUF 10 billion amendment to the 2020 budget proposal, of which the Roma nationality adjustment requirement is HUF 1.8 billion. Vice-President Felix Farkas spoke about this yesterday, and I have already spoken about it in part today. The remaining 12 nationalities need a HUF 8.2 billion adjustment in the following five focus areas. First of all, more than half of the need for an increase in funding, namely 56 percent, HUF 4.6 billion of stockpiling aid to ensure the investment, renovation and tendering of the buildings and buildings of the national authorities and the institutions they maintain. Secondly, 16 per cent of the support needs are covered by the third step of the national minority educator programme launched in 2018, according to which the maximum percentage of the minority pedagogist bonus would be increased and differentiated from 30 per cent to 40 per cent, and from 1 September 2020 all three years of the national minority educator's students, all six years of the minority teacher's, teacher's and teacher's students, will be included in the minority educator's scholarship system. All this means HUF 1 billion 315 million. Thirdly, we recommend an increase of HUF 734 million to increase operating support for national minority authorities and media as well as their reserved institutions, which is 9 percent of the total demand. Fourthly, 7 percent of the demands, 600 million HUF for ethnic associations, organisations and schools, are needed to further increase the ethnic tender framework. Finally, for the fifth time, we would like to increase the operating support of local ethnic authorities by HUF 592 million, which is nearly 7 percent of the total demand. Today I would like to give you detailed information on the first two points, and I would like to report on points 3, 4 and 5 in a similar way tomorrow. The first point: more than half of the total aid increase demand, 56 percent, HUF 4.6 billion. This can be divided into two parts: on the one hand, investment support for local institutional self-governments in the national minority institutions they maintain. In recent years, the welcome expansion of national cultural and educational autonomy in the kaput is expected to be the maintenance of a total of 68 ethnic cultural and educational institutions by the 50 local minority self-governments of six nationalities from 1 September 2019, in which some 4,600 ethnic children receive national education. By amending the Act on the Rights of Nationalities, CLXXIX, 2011 on 12 December 2017, in addition to the previously adopted rights of reservation, and thereafter, until 30 June 2018, local self-governments also took over the trust rights of the reserved institutions from the former owner. This concludes the transformation process, which has led to a clear and clear legal and financing situation, i.e. on the one hand, the local national authorities responsible for the full maintenance of the institutions taken over and for carrying out their renovation and investment tasks as a task taken over by the State. On the other hand, the financing of these tasks of maintenance, renovation and investment of a nationality institution should be provided by the State in the form of grants, since the national authorities do not have any own revenue. The 2019 stockpiling aid needs exceeded HUF 9.2 billion, which justifies the immediate start of renovations and the provision of the necessary support. The other part of the stockpiling framework is the renovation and investment of the building and building stock of national minority authorities and the 42 national cultural and public education institutions they maintain. This increase in support is justified by the fact that only our institutions maintained by national authorities had more than HUF 13 billion in the amount submitted, but not supported by the lack of funding from the 2019 budget. Obviously, it is not possible to make up for decades at a time, but if we cannot start with the complete renovation of at least five or six public education institutions a year, then our institutions cannot be kept in a state suitable for public education. The more than 110 public education institutions, which are maintained by national and local national authorities, serve to educate and educate more than 15 thousand children of nationality. The second focus issue for the 2020 increase in support needs is 16 percent of the total demand for the third step of the National Education Programme launched in 2018, according to which, on the one hand, the maximum amount of the minority pedagogue bonus would be increased and differentiated from 30 per cent to 40 per cent, and, on the other hand, from 1 September 2020, the three years of the national minority educators, all six years of the minority teacher, teacher and teacher students, will be included in the national education student scholarship system. All this means HUF 1 billion 315 million. [[11.00]] Prior to the last year's budget, I gave a detailed report on the part of the teacher in kindergarten. Allow me to remind you of a few things. In the autumn of 2016, we developed the minority educator program, then we started it first with the kindergarten educators, including everyone. In the spring of 2017, we conducted a full national survey of all nationalities where there are national preschools. The most serious situation of this was the German ethnic kindergarten, clearly due to the German language, where 41.7 percent of the required nationality educators were missing, more than 440 people. There were, to a lesser extent, 10-20 percent deficits in other nationalities, with a total of nearly 500 children's kindergarten educators. Four essential aspects have been identified to improve the situation very urgently. On the one hand, keeping the kindergarten teachers on the field. One way to do this is to increase the educational substitute for nationality. On 1 January 2018, we increased from 10 to 15 per cent, from 15 to 30 per cent on 1 January 2019, and on 1 January 2020 we would like to introduce differentiation from 30 to 40 per cent, which means that all ethnic educators should be included in the national minority bonus system in proportion to their ethnic education. The other step was obviously a significant increase in the number of students involved in training. This is what we have developed the National Education Teacher Scholarship system, which was introduced from 1 September 2018 for the first year, where the full-time students receive HUF 75, 50 and 30 thousand differentiated, depending on the study results, 50, 30 and 20 thousand HUF net scholarship for the additional students and evenings, mailers. We were able to make the necessary personal income tax amendment to the tax exemption before the end of 2017. In addition, we enter into a contract with them, which means that at least the same period of training should be worked in a nationality institution and as a minority educator after the conclusion of student status. The third stage was the survey of training places, universities and colleges, and to ensure that they were able to hire a larger number of students and to prepare a higher quality training, especially on ethnic language competences. This year, in 2019, the eight education schools received a total of HUF 100 million in targeted funding. Despite the fact that the scholarship scheme could only be announced and introduced in January, it is already apparent that the number of young people applying to the first place for the 2019-20 year has increased by about 50 percent. Another very important part of the minority educator programme is the situation of nationality educator, teacher and teacher. In February of this year, there was a national meeting in Parliament where all the parties involved had a start-up meeting with the involvement of the three departments, with the involvement of all the relevant nationalities, with the involvement of each training university, and then several months of work in two working groups. In doing so, we conducted a full survey of universities for three years. In the other working group, a complete survey of 14 selected institutions, in which all maintainers, all nationalities, all types of schools are present, was carried out a pilot sharp survey. Following this evaluation, in September-October 2019 we will assess the required national educational requirements, the actual provision and, on the basis of this, the deficiency of the nationality educator for all nationalities, all maintenance and all pedagogues in the country. I think that this has never been done in Hungary before, and no one has these data. Building on this, a long-term, well-established training programme can be introduced and established from autumn this year to ensure that the national minority education institutions in Hungary are adequate. I would like to state and stress that with each minority educator, with the surplus of national minority educator, who we can train in relation to the national minority educator programme and keep in Hungary, we also reduce the total educational deficit in Hungary in exactly the same number, so this is important not only from the point of view of nationality education, but also from the point of view of overall education. I would like to inform you in advance that on 19 September 2019 there will be the first national meeting of national minority educators in the Felsőházi Hall, where with the involvement of all stakeholders, we wish to provide a broad audience so that, once the conditions have been met, as many young people with the best possible ability to apply to be national educators and to make progress in this area as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit!
u2019-06-20-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would just like to inform my fellow Members, it has already been said in the notary's announcement yesterday that the voice of the representative or advocate of nationality invited by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary can take place in a total 60-minute time frame of 20 minutes yesterday, today and tomorrow, but this does not count in the big time frame, so do not look for the time frame for this statement on the billboard, which has been said. Dear Parliament, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor from the Fidesz Group to Mr Alpár Gyopáros. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-20-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It is difficult to pass without a word by the speech of Mr János Stummer, who was the first speaker of Jobbik in today's debate and who in his speech called the Hungarian villages and the Hungarian villagers miserable with noble simplicity. [[Gergely Farkas: What are you talking about? What did you hear?]] This is worth rejecting on behalf of all political actors. It is surprising, however, that Congressman Stummer's speech is because he is a country child, but at the same time he is less surprising, because I am one of the few who, when good politicians first stood behind or next to Ferenc Gyurcsány on a stage, I am not surprised at this, because they are still standing on a spiritual medium. This speech also proves this, as the socialists at the time of the Gyurcsány government proved that the people living in the countryside, and especially those living in small towns and villages, are considered second-class citizens. It is proof of this by the series of measures in which educational institutions, kindergartens and schools have been closed. In my constituency, there were 17 settlements affected out of 71 settlements with municipal status, where schools had to be closed or divisions reorganised. Small mails were closed in the same order of magnitude, railway and transport sidelines were closed, for example, in my constituency the passenger transport on the Csorna-Pápa railway was completely closed, and, as has already been said, municipalities were indebted to the value of HUF 1,400 billion during this period. On the other hand, debt consolidation has been carried out in recent years and in line with the objectives set out in the 2020 budget, the payment of HUF 1500 billion has already been made to cities with county rights in the framework of the Modern Cities programme, and the annual HUF 150 billion programme is also realized. I would like to thank the Government and, in particular, the Ministry of Finance for all the help that it is doing to improve the quality of life of people living in rural areas, especially as regards the services of village and folklore, because this is where an important decision has been taken to increase not only the level of state aid almost double, but also the number of municipalities that can use this service. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[11.10]]
u2019-06-20-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone would like to speak in the two-minute speeches. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see any sign-ups, so we will move on to the second round of speakers. I would like to take the floor first from the Fidesz Group to Mr Péter Ovádi. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-20-31	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As a member of the Committee on Enterprise Development, I would like to comment on the 2020 budget, which we can say is at the centre of families, but it also aims to make Hungary stronger, and the Hungarian people feel this in everyday life. It is important to emphasise this only because if we remember where we started in 2010, where this government had to start its work, the state of the Hungarian economy, indeed, we are miles away from the near-state economic deep flight. At the time, the idea of growth in the economy seemed distant, and we didn't even dare to think about a reduction in public debt. The civilian government that took office in 2010 began its work inheriting this critical economic situation. It set out as a priority that the aid-based economy should be replaced by a work-based economy. Thanks to the government's measures and market processes, mainly as a result of the growing employment of the domestic primary labour market, the number of people employed was close to 4.5 million, and the unemployment rate dropped to 3.5 percent nationwide, which is less than 2 percent in the vicinity of Veszprém. As a result of strong labour demand, favourable processes can continue to take place in the coming period, employment expansion, unemployment rate decline and dynamic wage increases, resulting in real earnings rising by 41 percent in 2018 compared to 2010, thus improving the income situation of households. The tax reduction policy will continue. The aim remains to reduce the tax burden on labour and on businesses and families. For this reason, next year there will be more than ever, HUF 380 billion for family tax relief and first-marriage benefits. In addition to the support provided by the village CSOK and the favourable loan facility, we provide tax refund support to small settlements up to HUF 5 million for the construction of new residential properties, as well as for the renovation and extension of used residential properties. It is an important change for nearly 40,000 companies that the key to small business tax, the kiva, will be reduced to 12 percent from 1 January 2020. These measures are based on economic stability. The Hungarian economy is one of the most dynamically growing economies across Europe, but the Hungarian economy also faces a number of potential threats. According to the latest figures, global growth has slowed down, commercial tensions seem to be perpetuating, and euro area growth forecasts also warn caution. At the same time, in 2020 our aim remains unchanged under deteriorating external market conditions, so that the growth rate of the Hungarian economy is at least 2 percentage points higher than the average growth rate in Europe. This is also the aim of the recent economic protection action plan adopted by the government, which is expected to bring GDP growth to around 4 percent in 2020. Building on the results achieved so far, the main tasks of economic policy are to further improve the competitiveness and productivity of companies in order to preserve Hungary's growth potential in the long term. Our country's prospects will be shaped by several factors in 2020. Capacity-enhancing developments will not only stimulate investment activity directly, but also the export of our country through the rise in production. Economic growth is also stimulated by a number of government measures. With regard to corporate investment, strong growth dynamics are expected to continue, which is strongly supported by the lowest single corporate tax rate in the EU compared to 9 per cent, as well as by a number of large-scale developments announced over the past period. It is important to create a predictable and predictable business environment for SMEs. I, too, regularly hold an entrepreneurial forum in my constituency to learn how to increase their productivity or to what extent they have managed to grow as a result of investor-friendly economic policy measures. This is the most effective way to help each other work. When negotiating the budget, I would like to mention that next year, EUR 5 billion of funding will be provided in 2020 to support tasks related to the title of the European Capital of Culture 2023. This is of particular importance to me as a Veszprémian, as the city can wear this title together with the region of Bakony, Balaton in 2023. This support also shows that this honour is important not only for the city, the region and the people living there, but also for the state. We expect not only cultural effects, economic benefits, but also further growth in tourism. The role of tourism in the economy, which has been growing since 2010, has become increasingly important. In April, for example, domestic accommodations achieved more than 9 percent revenue growth. Reducing the VAT on accommodation to 5 percent from next year will result in further competitiveness gains. Perhaps it is not exaggeration to say that Hungarian tourism is a golden age. The guest traffic of commercial accommodations has doubled by now compared to 2009. With these measures, the government will further increase the competitiveness of enterprises active in tourism. Ladies and gentlemen, Analyzing next year's budget, I have no doubt that the government is committed to maintaining economic growth, further reducing the ratio of public debt and maintaining the stability of public finances. Of course, it is not due to the fiscal policy of socialist governments, in which the stability of public finances was synonymous with the increase in VAT, the introduction of new taxes and the IMF loan. The results of the economic policy measures in recent years are now undisputed, economic growth is above the EU average, public debt is constantly falling every year, and the general government deficit is consistently low, creating a favourable entrepreneurial environment for SMEs. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we have a draft budget that all our fellow Members will be able to support. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-20-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Farkas will now take the floor from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-20-33	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, In the course of yesterday, I listen to the speeches here for quite a long time, and for several hours today, too, and the MPs of the government will cancel the communication panels: the budget of the families, the families are at the centre, the Hungarian families are the first, and the sentences with which you try to express how important the family's perspectives are. They do this by not hearing any of the Fidesz MEPs talk about a problem that affects almost all families in some way, and that is a question of emigration. How honest is it of you to refer to families when, I say once again, you are involved in the kinship of almost every family, who has been forced abroad in some way, for some time, for some time, without saying a word about it? Mr Secretary of State said that the Members of the Fidesz Parliament, Mr Secretary of State, did not speak of this out of their own accord, at the same time, in an explanation, when my fellow opposition Members, like me, raised their voice in order to address this problem and drew attention to it, then Mr Secretary of State was hiding behind various statistics. Dear Secretary of State, Please do me a favor and go to a grandmother who meets her granddaughter once a year, and tell her that Aunt Marika, please don't deal with the exodus, don't worry about talking to her granddaughter through Skype, because more people are moving out of Romania. Or stand in front of a ten - year - old child and tell him that Pistike, don't worry about seeing your father twice a year, because by the way, more people are coming out of Slovakia. [[11.20]] I'm sorry, but it's cowardice and it's insensitive that you're running behind statistics when it comes to human destiny. And the saddest thing about this whole situation is that now that we are discussing this issue here in the debate on the budget, I cannot argue with you that the x billion forints that you are planning to bring home the forced emigration out there, that x billion forints, or we think we need more, we need to discuss whether emigration is a problem and what a problem it is. And I really don't care, and I don't care what happens in the surrounding countries. If someone is sick, it will not be comforted that there are more serious patients, and that is the case. Hungary is sick in this respect. The problem is that people are forced, of course, who are self-indulgent, there are no problems with that, but there are many, hundreds of thousands of people who are forced to leave Hungary in the hope of a better life, because they cannot make a living at home. Hungary is sick in this respect, and we will not be happy that Romania, Ukraine or I do not know which neighbouring country is even sicker in this regard, and from there an even larger layer of society will migrate. So I would ask the Secretary of State and the Fidesz Members not to hide behind statistics and not to try to make us feel better about the fact that there are countries in worse situations, but to finally address the issue of emigration in line with the weight of the problem. And I am truly sorry that it is not about the magnitude of the problem being dealt with, how many billion forints, what tools, what solutions are being used to remedy this, that we are not able to argue about it, but that we need to deal with this problem. In our opinion, it is necessary, and in itself it is not enough to create conditions at home for people to come home. What kind of conditions are you creating at home? Are there any Western wages at home? Well, I don't think so. There may have been a real increase in wages, I do not dispute that, but in my own constituency, for example, I have experience that if someone, say, stands before their boss, wants a raise, his boss answers that I will not give you a raise, or I will not increase your salary, I will bring Serbian or Romanian migrant workers, because in ours, in the southern part of the county of Bács, this is the custom of bringing Romanian or Serbian workers. And they won't raise it, let alone minimally, let alone to the level of Western wages, but not even to the minimum. Why would they come home? Is it good health? Well, let's not be funny. My fellow Members have spoken and will talk more about the health situation here. Or what exactly would they be coming home for? For high-quality education? I think that this is a joke in itself, and I would also like to talk a little bit more about education, so that instead of spending more on this area, for example, there is no rise in inflation in the resources spent on education. But let's go back to emigration, proving a little that there is a problem here, partly by analysing past data. According to the portfolio analysis, 610 thousand of our compatriots left the country. Emigration rates have accelerated significantly since 2011. It may have decreased by a few thousand in recent years, so let's accept this data, and I wouldn't want to debate it, but if we compare it to 2011, the 13,000 emigration per year has increased to 40,000, more than three times. And we know very well that these statistics are always underestimated, because a lot of people do not fully eliminate the administrative things that mean their existence at home, because they are able to come home at any time, so these statistics are underestimated, but still, compared to 2011, the number of emigrants per year has tripled. And speaking of neighbouring countries, because you like to refer to this in statistics, let's look at the ratio of the Visegrád Four to the number of immigrants in Hungary and in these countries of the year. And what we need to see is that growth is by far the highest of the Visegrád Four countries. In the Czech Republic, the number of emigrants per year fell by half in 2010. I recommend to the Secretary of State this stats. Between 2011 and 2017, hundreds of thousands of our countrymen left Hungary. And it is also an interesting fact that there is an increase in the number of citizens in foreign countries, which proves that not only would these people, when they have left, come home, but more and more people have decided to stay there permanently, because domestic situations are things that are not attractive to them. But let's look at another statistic or another fact that shows the severity of this situation: young people and well-trained people have gone. This does not need to be very detailed about the danger that this poses to Hungary, the well-trained and young people are leaving. Then, as a consequence, if young people leave, in many cases their children are born abroad, and this is also a historical fact that one in six children is born abroad, one in six Hungarian children are born abroad. Between 2010 and 2016, a total of 78 thousand children were asked to be registered in Hungary by their parents who were born abroad. But that I should not just talk about the past, because I can say that I'm sure they don't deal with emigration because they think it's a problem of the past, and it's already been solved, so I'd like to give you some data for the future, and I think it's not even the most alarming, but the median, because it's possible to find more pessimistic, more optimistic ones. 60 percent of 19-29-year-olds are preparing or thinking about going abroad, a total of 1.2 million Hungarians, among the already migrated 0.5 to 1 million Hungarians. 20-25 percent of emigrants plan for a long time abroad, and 25 percent said they want to stay out for good. Of course, we're not sure if these are going to happen, we trust that this is just a sudden upheaval, and then fewer people will stay out for good or even wander away, and that would be in the best interest of all of us not to have many, I say once again, many of us are forced to go abroad, but all these numbers, without trusting that they will not be of such magnitude, show how serious a problem this is. And by the way, it's an interesting thing that a few years ago, the problem was still being perceived by you. A few years ago, you were created to come home, young man! It's a program. Not at great scale, perhaps with a budget of 100 million or 200 million, and not with great success, because, overall, we have managed to bring home 107 young people with this program, but they have sensed that something should be done to help outside workers to give them a boost, a help to make the move to return home. This program has been terminated. They said that it was not effective, and it is difficult to argue when they were able to bring home hundreds of millions of young people out of a few hundred million forints. That's because it's true that it's not effective. But the fact that you didn't create anything instead, and you still don't care how to help foreign workers return home, what kind of administrative, bureaucratic or other help you can give them in finding a job, finding a place to start living here, that you're not giving them any help, is a huge sin. It is a great sin because it is putting Hungary at risk. These people may settle out there for life, they will be stuck there, their children will grow up there, in whom the feeling of Hungarian citizenship and the Hungarian identity will be weaker. In that respect, it's a great sin! My main point is, unfortunately, with the end of my time, that you should be more concerned with the issue of emigration. This budget is at the moment a budget for the waiver of migrants. I ask the members of the government to see that this is not a party policy issue; Jobbik does not want to impose one of its programme points on the governing parties, but rather we want to bring to the surface a matter of national strategy, the solution and management of which is in the interests of the country. I trust there will be so much common sense in you. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-06-20-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. I just want to inform Congressman that there is no time frame here, so there is no 15 minutes... [[Gergely Farkas: Internal time frame.]] according to the agreement within the House. [[Gergely Farkas: Fraction-time frame...]] Thank you very much. State Secretary Péter Benő Banai asked for the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-20-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to respond very briefly to Mr Gergely Farkas' comments. In the first point, it should be noted that Hungary is a member of the European Union. Consequently, their employees are free to decide where they want to work within the Member States of the Union. That's the statement. [[Gergely Farkas: There's nothing wrong with that!]] I only showed the statistics that, compared to the region, less people have decided to work abroad, either in relation to the Baltic countries or to other countries. This is the first claim that Eurostat data shows. And my second statement is that yes, the choice of place of employment to work abroad or work in that country is a factor in where you want to live. [[11.30]] And I think that the main thing that helps us to work is that there are jobs and wages in jobs are constantly increasing. In terms of both the number of jobs and the rise in wages, the number of recent years is favourable not only with Hungarian historical reflection, but also with an international outlook. So there are more jobs and wages are increasing. I think that in terms of the fact that someone is imagining their future at home or abroad, it also matters what kind of support they have in terms of housing. If someone wants to live at home and buy a new apartment, build a house, then there is a family home-building discount system that can be a very generous, significant, multimillion forints, ten million forints, and, where appropriate, ten million direct non-refundable grants, with additional interest-free loans. As a third item, let me mention the founding of a family, in addition to work and home creation. The congressman mentioned how many children are born abroad. As part of demographic measures in the 2020 budget, as part of the baby shower support, a loan facility will be opened from 1 July 2019 and will be fully implemented in 2020 and will be of great importance to young people who have found a family, once again internationally. I therefore believe that the 2020 budget contains a number of elements that will help all young people who want to live in Hungary and who want to work here in the family. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-20-36	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next speaker from the KDNP Group is Mr István Simicskó, Member of the Parliament. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-20-37	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been here since eight o'clock this morning in the debate, listening to many interesting and valuable speeches, suggestions, positive thoughts, criticisms. Obviously, when discussing a budget, one always has the idea that all areas are important, obviously. For the development and development of a community, a society is important for education, important for health care, important for many, many things, agriculture, and the rest, and more. I have seen from my experience in life that there are many professions, there are many professions that are perhaps the most useful and important to a community, and the work of the people who work in this profession is essential. Of course, in every profession, every person in the profession is a valuable person, and everyone has the potential to create his profession and his profession. My father always taught us that if you take on something, do something, do something, strive to do it as best as possible, put the most power, energy, and all our abilities into that profession. So a good mason who can build a nice and stable house, a family house, a good tailor who can sew nice clothes, and the rest, and all these are valuable works. Yet, there are three professions that I would like to speak briefly about, and one that I may feel most important in particular. These three professions are teachers who help raise our children and shape the future generation in this way, give them the right values and value filters, obviously along with families and parents. The other profession is for people working in health care, so doctors, nurses. If we are sick, if our loved ones are sick, they have the ability, the knowledge, the determination to heal, which is enormous knowledge. Now I would like to talk about the third profession in more detail, and this is the vocation of the people responsible for our security, and in particular of the soldiers. I believe that in today's world, but it has always been important for all societies, for all nations, to guarantee safe conditions for all countries, because only that gives them the opportunity to prosper in any other area. So it's basic security, especially in this rapidly changing world. Therefore, what I see from the draft budget, the 2020 term, is that the defence chapter contains unprecedented financial resources for Hungary to become a powerful Hungarian defence with modern technology. It's about time, you might say. Of course, I'm saying this because I've lived in times when the defence budget wasn't even a hundred billion forints, it's practically, if I consider it, then six years and older, obviously, I'm not counting inflation and a lot of things, it's a huge amount, it's a huge responsibility, and it's a valuable and well-used thing. What I see is that there are guarantees in the budget that this source will be spent most of the time in the development of the Hungarian Defence Forces, obviously to honour the soldiers and to strengthen their ability to retain. However, allow me, of course, in parentheses, if I have listened to Gergely Farkas here and said that the pro-government speakers are constantly saying communication panels, I would like to quote not from a communication panel, but from the Scriptures. Because as one of the vice presidents of the Christian Democratic People's Party, I do know exactly from Psalm 33 that the King does not win with a strong army... , so we need a strong army, but that is still little to guarantee the future of our society, our nation, for the long term. We also know that the eye of the Lord rests on the righteous, on those who trust in his grace, and he is our help and our shield. And we also know from the apostle Paul, who wrote a letter to the Ephesians that the full armor of God is needed by all of us in this Christian world, in Christian civilization, because only then can we remain as individuals, and only then can we remain as a nation and as a family and carry out creative activity. The apostle Paul gives us six weapons, and it may not be useless to record it here for the record, for posterity: the belt of righteousness, the shield of faith, the helmet of salvation, the sword of the soul, the armor of justification, and, last but not least, the ability of peace. Anyone who has that can find a common denominator, no matter how party-like he is. I think there are national minimums or there should be, a national consensus, a common denominator, at least the smallest common multiple, and that could be protecting our country, what else. There could be a lot more, but it's not always up to us, especially KDNP, but obviously we need to look for these common rendezvous points. A budget debate may also be suitable for everyone to say according to their own values, according to their own creed, exactly what they think is important, and if they make a good argument, our fellow Members will obviously make many, many amendments, and obviously the Ministry of Finance will consider with sufficient wisdom which one they accept and which one they do not, while otherwise the Ministry of Finance has a comprehensive strategy for all areas. Let me therefore thank Mr Péter Banai Benő, Secretary of State. All government agencies worked hard on their own budgets, but the Ministry of Finance had to put this together so that it would be in harmony, balanced, continue a growth path, and try to generate resources for all important areas, create sufficient resources. Almost all the resources have succeeded, and we see increasing resources, so let me thank you, on behalf of the KDNP faction, for the work of the Secretary of State and Minister Mihály Varga in this very difficult time. Returning to the budget chapter of the Defence Department and the Ministry of Defence, we also know that, of course, spirituality, faith is an extremely important thing in the life of an army, in the life of every community, because the true strength is not given by technology, but primarily by faith and inner spirit. So this is a very important thing, so I was happy to see in the defense chapter that resources are also available for the operation and strengthening of the field ministry, this is a very important thing, believe me, this should not be underestimated, because there is enormous power in it. We must appreciate the service of our camp chaplains, as our soldiers are out on various missions, although not necessarily in the mission that we Christian democrats hold to proclaim God's love, but in military foreign service, to carry out peacekeeping activities, perhaps as a mission, and there are camp chaplains out there, and to assist our soldiers. It is important to appreciate them, to have them, and to strengthen their faith, and to shape their spirituality in the right direction for the Hungarian Defence Forces. While there is also an incredible amount of technical progress, there is a source of resources for which there has never been such a resource before. I am talking about the acquisition of helicopter capabilities, new devices, rotating wings, re-establishing armor-piercing capabilities and replacing them with modern devices, which we have long wanted, since these devices are part of the safety of the country's airspace. We need modern tools to guarantee the safety of Budapest or even the safety of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, but I can claim this for the whole country. [[11.40]] We're hearing about artillery trucks, and obviously there's funding available in next year's budget. What I would like to add is that we have launched a ten-year military development programme. I was honoured to begin this work with due humility and to put together a programme of defence and military development, named after Zrinyi until 2026. I am pleased to see that this continues in a rapid and dynamic manner. For my part, I can support that. It is important that the Hungarian Defence Forces and the Hungarian soldiers, our soldiers who serve there for our security, feel respect, social respect, and government respect. If the budget can express all this in figures, this is also reflected in this. The fact that the Hungarian economy is growing dynamically is obviously a welcome fact for all people working in the state profession, well above the EU average. This means, by the way, that obviously the private sector, the corporate sector, can give people quite serious salaries and salaries. There is a very high risk or possibility of draining, so many soldiers or even policemen, firefighters, go to civilian life, because they get paid more, so obviously we have to value them. Therefore, it is important to continue the process of raising salaries within the Hungarian Defence Office and obviously also with the police, because through this we can clearly express our appreciation. What I see is that, with such a budget, it is safe to do so, and that we will increase the defence budget to 2 percent of GDP in the foreseeable future, this is a huge opportunity, so let the soldiers feel that the government is working with armed law enforcement agencies in this endeavour and this intention, and in this way we may be able to strengthen the sustainability of the Hungarian Defence Agency. What I would like to say briefly is that sufficient resources are also available to improve the reserve system. There are soothing, warranty elements in financial terms so that they can continue to develop the reserve system of the Hungarian Defence Agency. This is very important not only from a security point of view, but also from the point of view of social and community formation. If the Defense Act 1. § (1) is cited here, which is well known among those present, which says that the protection of the country, the defence of the country, is a national matter, so it is really for this purpose that we achieve this, and therefore must work. We also used to say Kossuth, often quoting that the protection of the country is a daily service, so it is not so that now the time has come, and then everything is done and done, we have no further purpose, but we have to keep working, because the world is constantly changing. The reserve system allows our fellow citizens and fellow citizens to participate in some way, in some way, in the protection of the country. Therefore, I think it is very, very important that Mr. Secretary of State should not be persuaded, because he is also a reserve lieutenant, if I remember correctly, which is why he has been a positive example among the State Secretarys, not many, but I am not now hurting anyone who has yet undertaken this service in their spare time during their leave of absence, and they are doing so, so I would also like to encourage everyone to take our young people in the direction of taking a role in the reserve system. It's obviously a territorial policy to build this. That's the decision we made back in the day. So it is important for the local patriot feeling to be strengthened in our young people, to get to know their narrower and wider country, their environment, and to participate in whatever problems they may have, to help their own families, their village, their city, their settlement, whether natural disaster, industrial disaster, don't give to God, any risks or challenges arise in their area. This is important. Every study proves that a narrower Patriot can be better protected, knows every nook and cranny, and that is a huge advantage for the defense. Let me add that we also know that, by the way, and I would like to take the reserve system in this direction just a little further, that the effectiveness of defence, i.e. the defence of the country in general, but we can also say that in every case it depends on the internal conditions of the country, so what is its spirit, what is its cooperation like. I could work as Secretary of State for Sports, I often emphasized fair play, because sports is basically not only about competition, but also about what kind of competition we are in, following the rules, and taking part in this fight as a fair man. So sports can also be a common denominator, it can improve our human relations qualitatively, see also in Parliament. I think we have a serious responsibility in what style, in what way, in what accents and even in the tone of voice we speak to each other, but that is not the most important thing right now, in what style we speak to each other, because it also has a radiating power. If we do this in a sporty way, we talk in a sporty way, and we relate to each other in a sporty way, then we can go out to society with positive messages, and through this we can regulate our social coexistence and our standards in a valuable way. This is also our responsibility, among other things. So it is important to have an internal condition, it is important that a society, a community, has a spirit, a faith, and we can think together about the effectiveness of, for example, the protection of the country, and what conditions we can guarantee. We also know, and it is a huge responsibility and a huge challenge because it has been extended for a long time. There are wars no longer in the classic sense, there are some of them, of course the armies are falling against each other, and there are different local conflicts, these are sad things, but the XXI. By the century, we are now living in a period of hybrid warfare, in which the civil sphere has certainly become fully open, we are constantly influenced by technical means, and indeed, interests, the imposition of wills on a country can happen at any time by external forces if the society is not prepared to defend itself. So it is also necessary to develop protection and security in this dimension. I think basically the importance of civil protection is appreciated, because there has been a change in the culture, methods and procedures of warfare in this sense. Of course, the goal remains what Carl von Clausewitz wrote in the Vom Krieg, that it is indeed the imposition of our will on another state, this war. You obviously have more than one definition. The other definition was also very wisely formulated by him from the experience of Napoleon wars, which is the continuation of politics by other violent means. But now there are not only violent instruments, but also manipulative and highly concealed tools and threats that are otherwise trying to force their will on a particular country of destination, and there is no need for force in this sense, but pressure in another dimension. Nevertheless, armies do necessarily have a future. It is important to give people the sense of armed security that everyone needs and expects. Finally, I would conclude by quoting once again the apostle Paul, who left us many, many wisdoms, including taking care of ourselves, strengthening ourselves as an important individual and family, and caring for the flock. This flock, if I do not offend you in this sense, is the nation, so we must take care of our national family, our national community. The budget has been prepared with due care, not only in the defence chapter, as far as I have looked at and listened to the speakers before me, but in fact in all strategic areas, it devotes additional resources to the budget and the government, so we support the adoption of the draft budget to a great extent on the part of the KDNP. Thank you again for the Ministry of Finance's work. I ask you, Mr Secretary, to give our congratulations to the staff of the Ministry of Finance who worked day and night to have such a budget before us. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-20-38	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. Dear Parliament, The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr László Varga. Here you go.
u2019-06-20-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, István Simicskó talked about sportsmanship, and I have to say that he says it in such a way that it is obviously moving from this point of view, so that is how many things would work in the Hungarian Parliament. I have also spent the last few years here, and I have also listened to a lot of budget discussions in recent years. I made a note of it yesterday when the keynote speeches were delivered. I didn't think of that in connection with the statements of the pro-government representatives. Some of the things that were said here earlier, obviously, I'd sort it out a little bit. I will, of course, make a few points regarding the Secretary of State, which actually means my opposition to the macro-numbers, but I would also like to respond to some fidesz speakers. [[11.50]] On the one hand, I would say to István Simicskó that I understand that this is a budget for security from your point of view, and that it is increasing in terms of resources for defence, and also in terms of law enforcement, I think it is shocking that it does not fit into this increase in salaries. So he said very word-floweredly how desirable it is for such a thing to continue; but this cannot be done in the budget. This is a problem, so I think that, for example, an alliance could be made, even beyond party policy. A lot of people are leaving the field. As a miskolc, I can tell you that I see fewer and fewer people applying to police officers, for example, so police school has fewer and fewer students, so there are fewer and fewer people taking care of order all over the country, and a lot of people are leaving the field. There's something we should do about that. And it would probably be a very important step for the existence of one necessary and law enforcement workers to increase the salary in a noticeable way. We will support the amendments in this direction, we have a few weeks left on this issue, so change this budget, I suggest. In response to Alpár Gyopáros, he praised in his earlier statement the government measures taken in relation to the Hungarian villages; he opposed some previous opposition statements. As Borsod County, I can say that I see a significant part of the countryside being empty. These measures that you are taking are, in part, delayed and partly insufficient. Borsod county, especially North Borsod or even Abaúj, but unfortunately, in a significant part of Zemplén, Bodrogköz, the Hungarian villages are also being depopulated, the preservation capacity of the countryside has not changed a bit, and even the most deteriorated in recent years, despite the fact that the country's possibilities could be used more. Congressman Gyopáros also mentioned the programme "Modern Cities." And here I can say that, for example, complete investments have already been promised by 18 or 19 in the region, the completion of the M30 motorway has already been promised during this period, and this has not happened, so I see very serious delays and increases in envelopes without responding to a lot of real problems. So much for talking in front of me. Now, I would like to turn to a few points in the budget that are important to my point of view, or what I see a little bit differently. There's been a lot of talk. I wouldn't repeat everything. First of all, there is a 4-percent plan for GDP growth. In the previous period, they were similarly optimistic towards GDP growth data, and it must be acknowledged that the current figures are clearly showing a higher rate of growth than in previous years. Perhaps we should think more deeply about what is behind this, because there are two problems here. On the one hand, a shocking number has now come out of the Hungarian construction industry, this 48 percent increase, which, if anything, indicates overheating. Obviously, this may also be due to the fact that the VAT rate for the construction of a 5-percent discount apartment is being introduced, so a lot of commitments have been made for this year in the construction industry in rapid steps, which is obviously an upward figure for this year in terms of the economy, but an overheated number, which may change dramatically next year. I'm not talking about the quality and all the other risks that this carries. I have suggested this before, so I think the government has something to do with the VAT rate for new apartments. This exit in this form will continue to blow this balloon, which, I think, can cause very serious economic problems in the country. The other risk factor is the issue of EU funds. What I can tell you is that it is a clear process that much less resources will be available to the country from 2020. Obviously, a significant part of the growth is provided by the construction industry and a major part of the EU's resources. If there will be a significant decline here, then, of course, this will also have a negative impact on the country's economy, economic growth. Let us say that this is perhaps the case for this cautious deficit goal or preparation for this period. There is definitely nothing to do with this, and it is not sufficient to take the measure that has been taken. The inflation figure: we see from this draft that inflation is planned to 2.8, while the real situation is now, at this moment, that there is 4 percent inflation in Hungary, 4.4 in Romania; this is the only country with higher inflation today throughout the European Union, so there is the second highest inflation figure in Hungary. It is not possible to look at this in itself, of course, but if we say that the euro area average is 1.2 and the EU average is 1.6, then we can see that the inflation rate in Hungary is more than double what is now, so there is something to be done with the inflation that is getting out, because this is particularly affecting the smaller people, pensioners and those living in a more difficult situation, and the price of a lot of basic food has also increased significantly, something should be done with this. Here, I would like to turn to VAT revenue, which is expected to increase significantly in the budget for next year. They want to cover a great deal of expenditure with this, while, in October 2018, the European Parliament adopted a proposal, despite your objections, on the fact that the European Parliament plans to maximize the highest VAT rate in the Member States of the European Union by 25%. We have 27 percent, this is Europe's summit, and the government has really reached a serious peak in this. This is unacceptable, it is the tax of poor people, it covers a lot of tax rates, products and services, most of them, and here Hungarians must pay a terrible tribute. Here, at least 25 percent of the European Union's view as consensual should be reduced to the highest VAT rate you have raised to 27 percent. I note that this has also been said here in the debate that before 2010, VAT rates have increased; so if 25 was a problem, then I do not know why 27 is good for you, and these 27 have been collected from Hungarians for years. Of course, the reduction in this VAT rate could also reduce inflation, as would the fact that the reduced VAT rate would be extended to the whole range of basic foods, firewood and products for raising children, which has been mentioned a lot in the past. So that's it. And I would also like to turn to the fact that, of course, we believe in a strong redistribution as social democrats, and I can say that it is also good for the state to finance well-being from these redistributed sources in a way that compensates social injustices and creates a chance. And what we see is that over the last nine years, the proportion of welfare functions has been significantly reduced in percentage in the budget, which is certainly a bad message. Some things concerning their economic policy from 2010 onwards, I would respond quickly to what I said by those who spoke before me, what conditions they had taken over in 2010, how terrible the situation was, and where they have now reached. It's been a communication panel for a long time, and obviously we're forgetting what really happened in 2010. In June 2010, Lajos Kósa had a bankruptcy-vision of Greece, which had a terrible effect on the exchange rate of the forint, but on 14 September 2010, after a long work, the Parliament's Economic Committee discussed a proposal that, if I remember his name correctly, with the help of the Economic fact-finding committee, György Matolcsy was the minister, Mihály Varga the State Secretary presented to the committee and the Parliament. By the way, this document was available, it was absolutely good as I was prepared, I found it, I think 166 pages, looking at how the 2009 budget was achieved, so it prepared the closing account, and it was a realistic economic picture of the state in which the Orbán government took over the country in 2010. [[12.00]] In this material, György Matolcsy himself praised the 2009 budget and the policies of the Bajnai government, which he considered to be very prominent and important for crisis management. Obviously, I see that they have a different interest in communication. It is now in their interest to point back at today's problems by 2010. There was a moment when a material really meant to be objective was prepared, and today we have little to say about it. What I can tell you is that in 2009-10, during a very serious crisis management period when there was a crisis around the world, what was the state of Hungary, and today, when there is an international economic activity, comparing two of these situations is indeed a category of apple comparison with pears. What would be good, obviously, is to look at where we are compared to the countries of the region, and we can see László Csaba, who was the advisor to Viktor Orbán earlier, that Hungary is lagging behind in a league with him compared to football players. He put it that way, maybe it's easier to understand with the likes of football. Estonia, Slovakia, Poland, Romania are leaving us with a kill step, and Romania is approaching in an incredible way. The Romanian economy has also produced amazing growth figures in recent years. There has also been much talk about the amount of public debt. From HUF 20 000 billion in 2010 to more than HUF 32 500 billion in 2020. Obviously, this is also a comparison, especially when it comes to the taking and nationalising of private pension fund savings, which cannot be properly caught in the decline in public debt, although that money was made and it was set aside for the pensioners of the future, and it is clear that it was only with this step that they were able to keep the deficit below 3 percent. I told you about the weakened forint, but I'd like to say a few more thoughts very quickly. Here, most of the forints have deteriorated compared to regional currencies in the last nine years: 21.03 percent compared to the euro. The Czech koruna broadly maintained its level, the Romanian lei deteriorated significantly less, and the Polish Zlotyi too. Here is an old Orbán quote, which I always say; in 2004 he said: the weaker forint is clearly against the interests of the people, the weaker forint means a weaker state, and weak forints can only be wanted by weak people. That's what Viktor Orbán said then. Some sentences about corruption: every year Hungarians see Hungary as more corrupt. Not only does Transparency International show this, but also Eurostat, so at least focus on Eurostat data. In this context, Romania has been prevented, which its own inhabitants have traditionally considered to be a corrupt country. And the last time we scored in terms of political freedoms was so miserable before 89. That makes you wonder, too. There is less access to education, and overall, in terms of proportion, I have said this, especially to the institutions with state reservations, that here in Miskolc, for example, the roof structure of the Avas high school gymnasium has been life-threatening for months. They don't even see how they could get the source to renovate it, and they're forced to go to gym classes for high school students. This is what adequate resources should be used to solve such problems. There are systemic problems in health care. Civil servants have been promising to raise wages for ten years, but not only do they promise, but they also keep to them. I was talking about a salary increase for law enforcement and defense workers. Meanwhile, of course, funds are available for Paks II, Budapest-Belgrád railway or public media: 77 billion for Paks II, 64 for the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, 75 for the public media. Amazing numbers! They do not return, we see this, although the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, we see that Lőrinc Mészáros will be happy if Hungarian experts are not convinced that the construction of this line would have a real impact. The amendments we have tabled are obviously appropriate. The MSZP fraction tabled amendments in the field of education, health and social care. These were also mentioned in Bertalan Tóth's keynote speech. I could say I'm asking for your support from the government side. If I take the words of István Simicskó seriously, then I might as well see the chance. Such proposals have never been supported in recent years. So I'd be the one to be stunned, but you'd have to surprise me. By the end of my speech, I would also like to talk about three of my amendments, which I submitted on my own, which concern my narrower Patria, Miskolc, and all three, but of course, national problems. First of all, I would like to ask the government for additional support for road surface renovations in Miskolc. What we see is that the policy of the last 9 to 10 years, which has been about the removal of funds from renovations that are not directly visible or, let's say, a direct problem in the short term. You may be able to stay a year or two behind in potholeing or road renovation, but today, for example, in Miskolc, this problem has become so widespread that there are many roads that are almost accident risky, there are roads in an amazing state in Miskolc, so there is a necessary additional resource for this, but I also think that this may be the case in other parts of the country, perhaps we could mention such things regardless of party standing. Technically, nine years ago, large-scale panel renovation programs were shut down. From time to time, small amounts go out on this story, but I can say that before 2010, one third of the apartments in buildings built in Miskolc with industrialized technology were renovated by the city leadership during left-wing socialist governments. It's basically stopped since then. It's practically stopped! It would be necessary to continue this renovation. That's a substantial reduction in the cost, isn't it? So if a house is more energetically modern, then it's obviously a step forward. Last thing I want to say is that the fight against smog is the valley of Sajó. Otherwise, this region is constantly producing worse data in the Smogo period than Budapest. So the country's most polluted area, and obviously the county seat, Miskolc, is also pitifully affected by this situation. We see that the situation is deteriorating, and you are doing nothing to resolve this. There is also an infringement procedure against Hungary due to air quality. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] It would be good to take decisive steps to eliminate or significantly reduce this health risk in Hungary, especially in the valley of Sajó. So I have proposed additional resources for Miskolc and its region in relation to the budget for such innovative steps and improvements. I would ask you to surprise me on this one thing and at least accept some of our amendments. I think all of our amendments are in the interests of the people of this country. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2019-06-20-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A speech will be made by Member Gábor Varga, Fidesz Group. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2019-06-20-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Committee on Sustainable Development, I would like to add a few thoughts to the budget as a member. Ladies and gentlemen, I represent a specialized area. In my district, the field, within the more developed Transdanubian areas, constitutes an internal periphery for which every year the priorities set by the budget are particularly important. We're in a double grip. Within and beyond the county, the lifestyle, jobs, vocational training, higher education and cultural opportunities offered by the surrounding industrial cities have greatly eroded the strength and capacity of the local community over the decades. At the same time, nature and man's interrelationship may not be experienced anywhere else as intensely as in the heart of Mezőföld, South Feyér county. In recent years, there has been plenty of work to be done in terms of the lack of development policy in the past, both in terms of basic infrastructure and in terms of human resources, but we have not yet reached the end of our work, far from the end of the road. South Head is mainly an agricultural area due to its potential. For centuries, the people living here have had a decisive experience between human activity and environmental changes and their interrelationship. [[12.10]] Although the overall environmental status of the region can be considered essentially good, due to increased environmental awareness, it is also necessary to face some difficulties. The proximity of Lake Balaton, the management of environmental and human risks caused by transit roads 61, 62, 63 and 64, the lack of extensive management, the emigration of young people, the lack of awareness of precision agriculture or the security of energy supply in the region are issues which ultimately refer to the coordination of economic, environmental and social development, sustainable development. For this reason, neither for the field nor for the country as a whole does it matter what scope the budget opens up for a sustainable green economy. Dear House, In the hot hot summer days after the very rainy May, the almost complete disappearance of the transition seasons, and the change in the air currents, are all signs of the global climate change problem that is living with us. Man is an integral part of nature, which, with his intelligence and creativity, has created a safer and more comfortable artificial environment around him. By changing our environment, we have achieved not only the desired goals, but, as a side effect, we have also started processes that have disrupted the ecological balance of the Earth over the past century. But man, despite civilization, is an integral part of nature. If you visit the field, you can experience it directly and experience it. However, by moving away from the natural environment of man, in which there was plenty of time during evolution to adapt to slow changes, the inner rhythm of his body is overturned, it is all harder to maintain a relationship with nature and to meet the expectations of a changed, beautiful new world. Ladies and gentlemen, The long-term capacity to develop a social environment that embraces the principle of sustainable development and to change the needs and needs of industrial production and consumer society for the environment, so that the adult society recognises the magnitude of the risk of ecological disaster and changes its thinking and habit, cannot be imagined without the development of environmental attitudes. As a educator, I also believe that this later social change should be part of the environmental education that started early in childhood, as this is also the most intensive period for the development of environmental-related customs. It is well known that people's view of the environment, its situation, the recognition of environmental benefits and risks is primarily determined by personal experience, followed by information from personal relationships such as family, education, public services, acquaintances, in particular social media and the Internet. However, these channels often convey values and ideas that are contrary to sustainability. It is our responsibility to provide the space and framework in the budget for investments and programmes that are contrary to sustainability. Although this is not just a budgetary issue, the domestic legislation of the most important channels of thinking is unfortunately fragmented, its elements are mainly formulated in the media law, in the Public Education Act, in the concepts of public health, family policy and youth, as well as in international conventions on access to environmental information. It does not belong closely to the budget, but we also need to know that, at present, indirect reference to the pedagogy of sustainable development is still limited to the needs of the rights governing education in Hungary, and rather it is only in the need to shape environmental attitudes. Ladies and gentlemen, Improving knowledge of society on the environment and sustainable development, improving access to information, promoting environmentally-friendly decisions and a more sustainable lifestyle is basically an educational policy task, which, however, is limited for the time being due to the shortcomings of current local curricula, part of the master's plans and part of the lack of widespread dissemination of existing methods, and, accordingly, it is difficult for students to participate in internal society; although there is no doubt that the situation is changing. The growing Z generation is now much more susceptible to these questions than older ones. A good example of this is the increasing number of student demonstrations aimed at increasing the fight against climate change, which have already been in 1300 cities in over a hundred countries, including Hungary, to draw the attention of adults and decision makers to the problem of climate change. It is worth noting here that more than HUF 288 billion in the 2020 budget is specifically earmarked to meet environmental objectives. This is not a small amount compared to the size of our country's economy. The priority of local communities is cooperation-based forms of community participation, democracy technology, strengthening partnership, because environmental benefits and disadvantages are most often seen at different levels of society, because most of the environmental resources are inseparable. However, the system of support for the operation and practical implementation of institutions for sustainability philosophy, education programmes, is currently not sufficiently conducive to this at local level. In my constituency, I often see a great gap between the theory of holidays and the practice of everyday life in terms of sustainability. We have a budget that provides an opportunity to reduce this gap. The ability of young people to identify with their goals is a key component of the success of local environmental awareness-forming programmes. In identifying with the idea of sustainability, it is at least as important that you feel the social and environmental conflict that you often do not experience directly. Because of its abstraction and invisibility, it is not easy. With the budget ahead, we can send a message and send a message to everyone, students: let us hear, understand the words of time, and know that we did not inherit the Earth from our fathers, but borrowed it from our grandchildren. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Adam Steinmetz applauds.]]
u2019-06-20-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Imre László, Member of the Democratic Coalition, will be speaking. You have the floor.
u2019-06-20-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. I would like to start with two basics, not only because they are important, but also because they are reference points when the planned budget, including the area of health, is under review. One is a mere number expressing how much a State translates in euro per year on a purchasing value basis. I have to say that Hungary does not meet half of the EU average, so there is therefore nothing to be particularly proud of. What follows from this, I could also say that it is natural, because, based on the European health consumer index, we have seen a deep-flying for many years in terms of the quality and content of Hungarian health care. You often mention 2010; let me also mention a date before 2010: in 2007, Hungary took 15th place in the ranks of European countries, ahead of Spain, Italy, all the states in our environment, and we have only kept a minimum of time away from the United Kingdom. Today, as a result of your blessed activity, we have fallen back to 33rd place, and only Romania and Albania are behind us. Expenditure on areas critical to the population of the country, such as education, health care, social security and welfare services and housing, has fallen from 30.7% to 22 percent of GDP over the last ten years. On the other hand, expenditure on state apparatus, protection, economic functions, entertainment and activities not classified as religious or religious activities increased from 17.1 percent to 19.2 percent. [[12.20]] The benefits of the E Fund in kind, which are typically intended to provide medical and pharmaceutical care by the State, decreased from 4.45 per cent of GDP in 2010 to 3.95 per cent. Indeed, Mr Secretary of State, it means that since 2010, the Fidesz governments have withdrawn a full annual expenditure from this sector. But let's look at the health budget for 2020 in a little bit more detail. In contrast to 2019, health care expenditures, of course compared to the two-year figures, have increased significantly: at the moment they are HUF 274,8 billion, which is 5.6 percent of GDP. However, we need to know that this amount includes the planned expenditure on sickness, foreign treatment and disability benefits. This means, Mr State Secretary, that the support for actual healing activities on the part of the state is still below 5%, and that the population will have to supplement it from their own pockets up to 2% to 2.5 percent of GDP. Now, let's take a look at the sharing of resources for curative preventive care. As far as the first approach is concerned, the draft would pay as much as they did in 2019, i.e. less in terms of shame in real terms. These are supply areas characterised by a shortage of professionals and increasing tensions today due to the lack of reasonable and necessary expenditure. Thus, it is not surprising that 24 thousand people are lost every year, according to their minister, and according to a study by the Minister of EMMI, the State Healthcare Services Centre, despite the fact that their illness could have been cured or prevented. Where is the much mentioned strengthening of the gatekeeper's role of basic supply? We are curious that this planned HUF 10 billion, which is intended to strengthen the basic supply, will be realised in practice. For laboratory benefits, minus HUF 33 million was planned for 2020 compared to 2019. In addition to the fact that this not only seems illogical but also incomprehensible, this is the area that is struggling with constant tensions due to the real need and the tensions between the sources provided. The rescue is not in a good position either, as the extra HUF 412 million planned to solve their problems is poor even for beauty patches. This means financing outpatient care and the activities of inpatient hospitals for the combined care provision, the government planned 932.6 billion by 2020, which is only HUF 21,3 billion more than the previous year. Secretary of State, if we take into account the 2.8 percent inflation forecast by you, inflation is still greater than that which can be seen from the point of view of 21,3 billion, not to mention, and you obviously know that inflation in the field of health is faster than in everyday life. I would also like to remind my fellow Members that this amount does not even come close to the annual debt from underfunded institutions. At the moment, this overdue debt is approaching 40 billion, leaving 37 billion. And can we talk about some kind of improvement or a correction of the activity? There are two items in the draft, the content of which is covered by a beneficial blur. There's a $40 billion item to convert the funding system. If I look at the cost assessment for the conversion of funding, then this amount seems to be very excessive in order to resolve this, but if I consider that it would also be necessary to bring the underfunded care into line, the problem is that the real amount of this can only be known after the expense assessment, of course only if we are to properly aim to eliminate underfunded debt resulting in continuous debt. The other amount is a pretty sum, the use of which is also vague, and it is a target of HUF 122.6 billion. I sincerely hope, by the way, that it will be opened to see exactly what this contains. I hope it's not the rubber paragraph of the CBI that we're not going to be able to bring back here in terms of vision and road conditions, so that we're going to be able to trace the wages and other things back here. There is a double increase in public health expenditure compared to last year, with HUF 3.7 billion. This figure is obviously insufficient in terms of the size of the public health programmes previously announced, but it really becomes interesting when we see in the draft that the same amount is planned for postal costs. This proves more than anything how much you care about prevention, how much you ignore the government's unjustified and preventable deaths of 24-36 thousand people a year. All materials, tools and medicines used by health care are subject to 27 percent VAT, which, of course, medical institutions cannot claim back. I want you to know that according to the State Treasury data, between 2013 and 2017, taking into account the tax and contribution rates, this amount was 32.9-34.2 percent of the total costs, i.e. only 67.1-65.8 percent of institutional funding was used for wages, medical devices, medicines and maintenance. Now, this should also be taken into account when we talk about your generously planned support for this area. It is clear from what has been said that the planned budget for health care, which, on an annual average, does not reach half of the EU average per capita, does not stop further indebtedness of medical institutions, can continue to count on the employment of graduates abroad and the poverty of public health. The question is right: what else needs to happen in order to reflect the health of the population in the budget? Overall, I have to say that the budget for health in 2020 is a budget of stagnation, resignation, uncertainty and disintegration, a budget of bitter awakening, still goodbye to growth, away from the standard of living in Europe, from the safety of everyday life. And so millions will live worse, poverty will increase, and tens of thousands more are expected to emigration, and we will continue to move away from the wages of European and even neighbouring countries and their improved standard of living. The Orbán government, as it did last year, lied about flowering, but severe restrictions remained unchanged. Thank you.
u2019-06-20-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Statement by Mr András Aradszki, KDNP Group. Congressman, you have the floor. [[12.30]]
u2019-06-20-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Madam Secretary! If a short contribution could be made to the 2020 draft budget, it would be possible to approach it primarily from the point of view that it is safe, sustainable and forward-looking. It is safe because the Hungarian government, the Hungarian state, can manage what the Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses produce, and the important indicator of which, the important indicator of these goods produced, is that the amount produced is increasing, which comes into the framework of public finances in the form of a tax. It is important to emphasise this because, in the last period, Hungary has entered the path of lasting economic growth, which enables it to produce data on major economic, economic policy issues and elements that are usually produced by the so-called countries, which we always pay attention to, in the Netherlands, Sweden, Germany, and even some of which we are better at. These are basically the levels of inflation, economic growth, the level of budget deficits in the given state, the level of unemployment or stagnation, employment figures. If we look at these, Hungary has taken a big step in the past nine years to create a stable economic growth, a secure economic background that is necessary for the budget. What does this mean in practice? Long-term economic growth means that we have experienced and achieved GDP growth of 5 per cent over the past period. With regard to government debt that is very important to the economy, the reduction in GDP is clear. In 2010, when the Fidesz-KDNP government was entrusted to the government of the country, public debt-to-GDP ratio was 83 percent. Today, we are also doing well in the light of the provisions of the Fundamental Law: 66 percent is expected to be in 2020. Not to mention unemployment, on which the Prime Minister said a bold commitment in 2010 that we will create one million jobs in ten years, a million jobs will be created in the real economy. I'm reporting, it's 800,000 people now. Many of us didn't believe, and many times during our non-existent mustache, there was doubting murmurs, but this figure of 800,000 is very encouraging. This also meant that even though the personal income tax rate in Hungary has decreased, the income side of personal income tax giving a significant contribution to the budget has increased. Of course, we also need to visualize a society from work and restore a society from work. I have to add this because the Hungarian people loved and were able to work in any way, but because of the positive activity of left-wing liberal governments, the embezzlement was to get away with working so that we could maintain our family with other, not entirely legal income and tax avoidance activities. Today, even if we are in the countryside, the kind of moral approach returns that those who have work in a given settlement, in a given microenvironment, also have honor. This is also seen in employment data. Unemployment is below 4 per cent and employment rates are significant, close to 60 per cent and above 60 per cent respectively. All these figures show that with such a background, such an economic policy background, the budget can surely be planned, and that there are no great doubts as to how the budget can be achieved. What are the directions of the draft budget law before us? Its main objective is to continue the turn of population, which, if not to the extent that many people think so, but due to nature's nature, has been a scheduled and slow shift over the past years, and the further foundation and support of this is a very important objective of our budget. In this respect, the family home allowances, the baby shower programmes, a number of measures included in the family protection action plan are based on the financial basis of the draft budget for 2020. As a result, all elements of the Family Protection Action Plan will enter into force from 1 January 2020. This ensures the expected incentive and growth of childbearing. It will ensure a wider spread of family home allowances and ensure that large family members are covered by special car purchase subsidies. The lead speaker of DK, Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány, was involved in interesting reasoning during his speech. He told us that this type of family protection action plan, the support of Hungarian families, is inappropriate, and that it is not appropriate, and that he believes that it is ineffective, because statistical data show that the parents do not take on more children than the families in the poorer areas to whom the support is focused, but that more children are born. He did not have the courage to delete the family support system through family tax incentives, i.e. the family support system associated with work, or to propose that this should not be done, and to re-establish the kind of family tax relief, the family support schemes that were in his period, which provided the non-workers with a right to receive the budget, in such a way that these families did not, or only contributed very little, to the financing of this budget. He didn't say that. It follows to me that he would not try to support these layers through the budget in order to encourage childbearing. It follows, and this is where the Prime Minister revealed that this amount, which we are currently spending on family support, would obviously be used for the import of migrants, for the integration, education, resettlement and integration of migrants. So he was exposed in this case; he does not consider the Hungarian families important even in the budget debate [[Zsolt Gréczy: Tens of thousands of guest workers you brought in are?]] Instead, it aims to support migration from the additional budgetary resources produced by Hungarian people, Hungarian families and Hungarian economic organizations, as I mentioned. Another very important element of this draft budget is that it is also preparing for the period when this type of European or perhaps global economic good condition, economic development, favourable economic development will not be suitable, will not be the same as it is now or in recent decades. Therefore, the government has also developed an economic defence action plan. In this respect, the budget includes measures that can ensure that it is able to maintain economic growth that represents more than the average GDP growth in the EU by an increase of at least 2 per cent of GDP. The necessary tax incentives and tax administration benefits are included in the budget, as well as in the tax and other laws on which it is based. [[12.40]] It also shows, however, that if you look at this aspect, that this budget is basically zero, so it is not deficit, it is not sufficient, it can be blamed on zero. Because, by the way, the modern, prepared and regularly critical economic policies of the Hungarian government, generally liberally oriented economists now produce the weapon, the saying that it is good, that the budgetary direction is good, that the budgetary deficit is decreasing, but the budget in the exemplary countries, in the bezegg countries, is already suffrified. There may be truth, there may also be a debate, but if the safety reserve set out and set aside in the Economic Protection Action Plan, which hopefully will not have to be used for this purpose, then this budget is zero; so it goes and goes in the international direction we consider to be good, and on which the Hungarian Government's position has been clear since 2010 that we do not want to spend more than we produce. In this respect, I believe that the draft budget contains significant progress in this direction, so it cannot be criticised in this respect. I consider it important that all the large areas that are important and sensitive to the budget and the living conditions of Hungarian citizens have a surplus in this budget. In education, they can manage HUF 48 billion more than in the previous year, in health care it is HUF 184 billion, and in public sector wages HUF 238 billion. If you look at these figures, you can also see that the public-sector wage settlement process is covered, so you can expect that what the government has promised will be able to keep in 2020. Dear House, I must add that I consider it an important element of this budget to be the answer to the great challenges of our time, on the one hand, to the management of migration, including the protection of the integrity, sovereignty, territorial integrity and population of the Hungarian state. Therefore, another very important direction of this budget is to make security, public security, defence, major changes. If I remember correctly, for example, we spend 183 billion forints more on defense compared to last year. A total amount of more than HUF 600 billion will be the amount of the defence budget, which includes the launching of military development, including, of course, the redesign, re-launch of the Hungarian military industry, and, of course, the most important resource, the increase in the prestige and appreciation of human resources. In addition, climate protection is a very important challenge; climate protection, to which the answers are quite diverse, is usually the loudest response, namely that the Hungarian economy, Hungary, the Hungarian state, is doing nothing to protect the climate. At the trial of the Paris Climate Convention, Hungary was there, acting as an agent on behalf of the European Union countries, and the commitments made there were sufficiently forward-looking by the European Union, so to speak, in a holistic manner, and the Hungarian state took responsibility for this. So Hungary deserves no negative signal, we can and will respect, in terms of climate protection issues, the goals for the future that are greenhouse gas emissions, which mean the greening of the Hungarian economy and the use of renewable energy sources, including, of course, secondary energy consumption, namely: the electrification of transport. In this respect, it is very plastic that it provides adequate funding for this budget, both for green programmes and for climate protection programmes, to which, of course, the costs of climate quotas can be used for similar purposes in relation to the Framework Conventions on Climate Change. So they can also provide a safe background to the Hungarian climate protection programmes. An important part is how we can manage the transformation of the largest greenhouse gas sector. The Hungarian energy strategy aims to develop Paks on this issue and to develop solar energy in terms of renewables. I think it's important that Paks II. budget funding for its construction is available, HUF 77 billion will be used by Paks II. the construction, design, execution and other related developments necessary in that region. Without Paks, there's no climate protection. Without Paks, there is no CO2-free power generation, and in this case we cannot achieve what we have undertaken to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 40% compared to 1990. I see that the budget also contains forward-looking provisions in this respect, and if we turn to the municipalities, it can be seen that the programme series, which characterizes the programme of modern cities, is also covered. For ongoing projects, the government has provided an appropriate amount of HUF 130 billion, I think, but I can look at it more accurately. This is also important to me, as a representative of the 1st Constituencies of Pest County, because Érd is also receiving significant support in this programme, and since there is no EU resource available in Érden as a municipality of Pest County, it is therefore important for us to have adequate budgetary coverage of the ideas that the Prime Minister and the Mayor have sanctioned by agreement. I see that the amount set out in the budget can provide cover for this purpose, and it is hoped that, in the 2020 marketing year, the economic background that is more stable than expected and the additional budgetary revenues resulting from even better and stronger economic growth will make the budget position suitable, so that the programme of modern cities is extended further and the building of residential roads is also covered. I believe that it is important that the programme of the modern village is also adequately covered, that it receives adequate support, and that not only does the Hungarian government provide specific resources for the implementation of the programme, but it is also able to provide a VAT discount for the newly built housing. Of course, all of this is already linked back to the population programme to support the population turnaround. Overall, it can be said that the areas that are important to me and which are crucial to the Hungarian future here, climate protection, security and support for population change, have certain resources in the budget presented. [[12.50]] I therefore ask you, after a long debate and constructive proposals, to consider supporting this draft budget with any amendments that may be made to it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-20-46	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2019-06-20-47	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, In the second round speech, I would like to address the municipalities a little bit, and for this reason, before we go into the details of the budget, I would like to say a few words about debt consolidation. The debt consolidation of municipalities was extremely important. I think that the various settlements were largely out of their own fault in a situation where debt was accumulated. That's how it happened in the village of Manfa, which I led. State Secretary Cseresnyés had already read to me that Manfa had a debt of HUF 14.5 million, which was indeed the case. This was due to the payment of various severance payments at the time. Yes! Although this debt consolidation took place, and we were very happy about it at the time, I really thought that this was a very sympathetic step by the government at the time, but in that year and the following year there was a withdrawal of about the same amount in our village. So it should always be noted at a time like this. The annexes to the 2020 budget for municipalities show a much more favourable picture for the first reading than the previous ones. However, it is important to mention at the very beginning that I was very happy to see the increase in the normative villagers, because it is not only the opposition's job to criticize, but also to tell us what is good, good, and indeed it is very welcome that this norm almost doubles. This is extremely important, especially in the lives of small settlements, since the villager institution, let me put it this way, has now become the driving force of settlements. In recent years, there has been a huge demand for the use of village care services, especially the various social services such as prescription, medical care and the rest, but we know that village care helps the mayor operate the settlement, so there is a lot to do there too. This is precisely why it was very important that this norm should rise, because in previous years it was almost all the wages and contributions that could be paid to the villager, and this is not a competitive income, even though the real villager can replace a lot of professional work. True, it is always the needs of the particular village that shape the qualifications, abilities and competences of this villager. But the fact is that there is a growing need, as I have said, and it is increasingly difficult to carry out urban operations; this is due to the decline in the number of participants in the public works programme. Which, of course, was a clear goal in previous years, since participation in the Public Works Programme can only be a temporary state, and the aim is for these people to find their way back to the labour market, with which I can fully agree. For this reason, those who were better qualified or who had the skills needed and useful in the labour market were able to find a job. However, I have to say again that we need to think about those who, because of their age or health, are currently not fit to work in the competitive sphere. They should also be taken into account, a comprehensive programme that gives an image of the health, mental and social situation of these workers, and when this picture comes up and the committee of the relevant professionals determines what the problems are, they should be given professional help. I can certainly see from experience that you can see that you can make them fit to work again in the competitive sphere or not. If not, think about the further employment of these people. Of course, it is important and necessary for them to maintain social employment. However, this net wage of approximately HUF 54,000 is extremely low. This is the amount that is almost not enough for anything; although the minimum wage is, the public employment wage has not increased in recent years because of the above-mentioned objective, which I have already said, because very rightly they did not want to encourage workers to get stuck in public employment. Yet, there are those who have been stuck in various forms of public employment over the past few years or over a decade. In order for them to survive in their lives, this HUF 54,000 is very, very little. Take, for example, a woman who is well-known to me, who receives 54 thousand forints, pays 27 thousand forints for her rent, electricity and water supply, and remains 27 thousand forints for her to live. Let's face it, you can't make a living. It is likely that he would need rehabilitation, but it is not certain that these people are always aware that, for example, disability benefits can be applied. So his situation is extremely hopeless, because the remaining HUF 27,000 cannot be lost. Hence, he always resorts to some other special care or loan that only increases his problems. So I think that the solution is not to establish additional aid for them on various items, but to pay them so that they do not need it. I find the idea of forcing local governments to contribute to the public work programme to be a mistake, since most of the small settlements are not able to do so. Take, for example, a bag settlement in Borsod County, where the number of public workers is much higher in proportion to the number of inhabitants than in a settlement closer to a city. I know that it is subject to tax power to contribute to the wages of public workers, but this is a burden on the budgets of these municipalities. For example, a municipality with 20 employees has to add up to HUF 2 million to its public works programme. In the past, settlements received significant amounts of material expenditure, a few million forints, smaller settlements, such as a thousand-man settlement, if they had 40 people, they had 8 million forints in real estate. However, this amount was also significantly reduced by a percentage, now the same amount is one million forints. So that is 7 million forints missing from the budget, as it was used to solve road stoning and many other tasks. Therefore, I am saying that although it is very good that the amount to be spent on green land maintenance has increased, it is still very little. But not only small settlements are in a worse situation, but, for example, cities' responsibilities and urban management are also influenced by these norms. As I said, the amount to be spent on maintaining the green surface has increased, but to an inadequate extent. We could say it's a drop in the sea. This about 10 percent increase cannot bring in the lag of recent years. It is unable to catch up with increased labour costs and lost labour costs. For years, there has been no money or tender for large machinery to help municipalities carry out their municipal operations, even though there is little workforce to ease the purchase of better, more modern machines. The operation and acquisition of a high-value instrument now seems hopeless. If we say we don't need a machine, then we should recognise these expenses as service costs. There is also an increased problem with professional labour requirements for various municipal buildings and institutions. Consider, for example, construction-type specialist work, masonry, electrician, plumber work, or other similar tasks. [[13.00]] In construction, as we all know, prices have gone completely, which are now out of the question. The rate of increase shall be at least 50 per cent. Due to the low level of public service wages, the aforementioned skilled workers are being pushed away from the civil service status by this low pay table. It can be concluded that in terms of wages, municipalities cannot be competitive. They may be able to employ career beginners, but unfortunately, due to low wages, these workers are more in the competitive sphere after they have been put into practice. Another serious problem is that in a town of around 25,000 people, the joint office has a potential number of 54-55 people, so they can't finance, for example, a manager, a caretaker, a cleaning man. While a metropolitan district of the same size sees fewer types of tasks, it can employ 20 more people. The lack of an increase in the basic salary of civil servants is a major problem, as this fund has been HUF 38 650 for the past ten years. And yes, in the next year's budget, there is an amount of approximately HUF 50,000 gross plus contribution that could be used to reimburse the basic salary, but it is not mandatory to provide this, so there is no guarantee that this amount will increase. I know of a public official with a financial education who is currently bringing home 145 thousand forints, with the same degree in the competition sector he could earn twice as much salary. The career as a civil servant is not as attractive as it used to be, since this long-lost wage increase prevents workers from wanting to be civil servants, although it used to be a prestigious and very good job. So let's be honest, this sum of about HUF 50,000 a month cannot compensate for the 13-year minimum wage increase. Unfortunately, work is becoming increasingly devalued by local authorities, which means that if the civil servant profession becomes more diluted, this will be at the expense of quality work. I would like to say a few words about the programme of the Hungarian village, which many people have mentioned in many ways today. It is very, very important for the Hungarian village programme, and the villages needed it as a piece of bread, and I hope that the kind of professional material, the basis that the experts of the associations of various local authorities and the experienced people working in these areas made, will appear in this program in as many and more numbers as possible. Now, we're only seeing a slice of it, and I'd really, really like to see it continue. Many mayors said that they did not know that they would have applications or how they would be able to account for them, so what will be the exact way to settle these applications. I hope that there is no need to worry about a decline in the population in the villages, but that we will soon be able to talk about an increase in the population as a result of the various measures. It is important that the ideas of local actors, mayors working in the field and local government professionals are incorporated into this programme as much as possible, because I think they really know what is becoming a pressing and growing problem in that region. You can't mention a small town in Borsod County or Baranya with a Győr-Moson-Sopron County or a Pest County on the same page, so it's not exactly the same in terms of terrain, transport, or anything else. That's all I thought. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-20-48	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Székely Sándor, an independent Member, will be here to speak. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-20-49	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The Commission's work of the last two or three weeks has given me a little uncertainty as to whether it is worth commenting on the budget at all, as I have had the pleasure of watching in the committees, as my fellow members of the Government vote off any opposition proposal or suggestion, whether we should say that we should not build a nuclear cemetery with Pécs, or that we should at least protect families with small children from being evicted into the street. But we also voted against the opposition proposal to at least look at how many children are in public care as a result of eviction, because there is no knowledge of it. This is really voted off by the pro-government representatives without blinking, although sometimes they admit that we are right, but they still vote against it. And, in these circumstances, it's hard to think that it's worth talking, but since when we talk, people look at it, not just you, so I've come to the conclusion that it's necessary to speak, and obviously the other members of the opposition are going to say their views on you now and in the future, and we think that sooner or later this is going to happen. After all, it cannot be said that while you are talking about the budget debate, Minister for Finance Mihály Varga, that there will be a fantastic increase here, you will say this every year, but frankly, this is not necessarily felt by the Hungarian people, this budget is also the top 100,000 budgets, and frankly, it does not promise the other Hungarians too much good. Just like the budgets that we have already had, the budget does not say that Hungarian wages will be significantly better, for example. You always tell me how much wages have increased in the last nine years on paper, and of course, they have, technically, also increased, one thing has not increased: the value of wages buying. In the European Union, my dear fellow Member, we know from the statements that, in terms of purchasing value, only Bulgarians are worse than Hungarian actions. So here we are, that Hungary has become the last in the European Union in this regard. We are really coming to that point now, obviously we are not yet concerned that not only is buying an apartment going to be an amazing problem for Hungarian workers, the Hungarian average people, but also slowly preparing a potato with peppers, as the prices of the potatoes are also completely out of control. Obviously, this is an exaggeration, but it is a good sign that food prices are out of control, but unfortunately wages have not been released, and they are not increasing, especially their purchasing value. It must also be said that just as wages do not grow, it cannot be read from this budget, nor does it show that pensions are growing. You always tell me what happened here in 2008-2009 during the crisis, but there hasn't been a crisis in the last nine years. And you're always throwing it in the eyes of the previous governments that they've taken away the 13th month's pension. And I'm asking you, because of the amazing economic development of the last nine years, which you think is going to happen, why don't you give me back your 13th month pension, or at least why don't you raise... [[Sándor Font: We already gave it back! We're at 14th! Zsolt Gréczy: Lőrinc Mészáros!]] Somehow, the average people do not perceive this, because we are still at the point that almost a million people have a pension in the area of 100,000 forints, not more, but less. I don't have to explain, but I may have to explain to you what it means today in Hungary. Not much. We also need to say that health care, which is just what we have in Hungary... reform was made ten or twelve years ago, we do not know what this reform would have brought, we know that nothing has happened since then. What we're seeing is that the public systems are going down, and obviously the private systems are building up. Only then why do Hungarian people pay for social security, that if there is anything wrong with them, then you have to go to a private institution? I can't tell you anything else. I'm forced to tell you my father's example. He's an 80-year-old man, he was supposed to have a prostate surgery last November, but he didn't get an appointment in the country in Budapest! So he was in the catheter for a month and a half, and then he had surgery. And then it turned out that there was something wrong with her other than that, maybe she had cancer. [[13.10]] But it wasn't exactly possible to establish that, because he didn't have an appointment at the hospital he was supposed to go to, because the machine was wrong, which would have examined his condition. Then, after the machine was repaired a month and a half later, it turned out that there was no suitable material to examine it, so he had to go to Debrecen. We're talking about an 80-year-old man. He had to go to Debrecen to get this test done. It's been seven months. I think that in this one story there is all the absurdities of Hungarian health. And again, this incident happened in Budapest, which is supposed to be a metropolitan city, and it's developing in an amazing way. Then, we also need to talk about the fact that today in Hungary an ordinary person, not like us, is sitting here in this House, for example, but the ordinary people, whose salary is average, so in Hungary this means that they are earning EUR 650, so housing is a very difficult problem to solve. Buying an apartment today, you can obviously only buy credit, because ordinary people don't have such savings. But not even on credit, because it is simply 20-30 million HUF to buy a normal apartment in Budapest or in rural cities. In small villages, of course, you can get it for a few hundred thousand forints, but there is no work there, so this is a very difficult case. Also, the rents are out of control. Now, we're talking about two people's salaries, if they live in apartments, one salary goes to housing only, and the other one has to make a living. Do not be surprised if not too many of these children are born. The number of children born last year is one of the smallest in recent years. I understand that the family support system is fantastic, but it seems that somehow it does not work, that children are not born in Hungary. I think it's definitely not good. And this budget doesn't point in a direction that's gonna change in this thing. Then we also have to talk about it, of course other opposition representatives have also talked about it, that you have succeeded in getting education very strangely, let us say, ruining it, I think that can be said. The situation today is quite simply, obviously, that could be said for hours, but I am not an educational expert, but from the outside it seems that today, if you have money or are born into a lucky family, you have the opportunity to have a good education. A simple worker or average person is in an increasingly deteriorating educational environment, but woe to a person who may not be born in the middle class, in the falling middle class, but under it. Woe to that, because he receives an education that doesn't give him much knowledge, regenerates the poverty that is spreading in Hungary, and we regenerate the one-and-a-half million people who really live from today to tomorrow, and from this education system, it doesn't seem that these people could ever break out, and in this budget there doesn't seem to be anything going on about it. We also need to talk about it, you know, we all know that from a few comments here, we are already in climate change. It's not new news, it's been more obvious over the past ten years, we're literally feeling it on our skin, summers are getting hotter, seasons are getting more unpredictable. To be honest, I do not see anything concrete here about what Hungary intends to do to, say, switch to irrigation. In Hungary there is hardly any irrigation in agriculture, there is no plan to expand irrigation in Hungary. I mean, there's a plan, but you can't see the implementation. A long time ago, the possibility of building a channel between the Danube and the Tisza has been raised, and there are many other ideas for water management, but I have not seen any trace of it in the budget. I could list these problems all day, but I don't, I really don't want to look like I know everything. In any case, it is a problem that, while we have all known that the EU source is pouring out and that Hungary has indeed had a lucky situation, while during the previous period there has been an economic crisis, there has been a very strong economic development over the last nine years, and if these cases have not been resolved in these nine years, then what will happen in the coming period is very feared. And it seems that you have also started, and we must take serious economic protection measures, and it is very doubtful that these economic protection measures will protect the very modest results you have achieved over the past nine years. In any case, in order not only to list problems, but also to give you some answers, my colleagues and I have made some suggestions. Allow me to say three of these here. Of course, the calculations are complete, although I know exactly that you will not accept them. So, we suggest that this budget should not be so supportive of the rich and the multinationals, but rather be a little solidarity with the habitation, so we suggest that we make the wages up to 200 thousand forints free, whether in several steps, up to four years in the future, so as to ensure a competitive salary that will stop the migration and really establish an increase in the number of children. This means a loss of approximately HUF 600 billion, which can be balanced by the introduction of two new keys: over 500,000 net, 20 per cent and over one million by 25 per cent. We recommend that pensions be increased by 5 percent in general, taking into account inflation and wage growth, minimum pensions by HUF 40,000, with an inflation key of over 500 thousand, i.e. 3.8 and zero percent over one million. This obviously does not solve the misery of the Hungarian pension system, but at least it would ease something. And we therefore propose setting up a long-term green budget so that we can tackle the problems in the long term. Therefore, we recommend that we devote 2 billion forints to the development of the 20-year climate protection strategy and the creation of a climate protection tender fund, which would be HUF 5 billion. This would have been my comment, but when I was sitting here, István Simicskó, former Minister of Defence and current Member of Parliament of the KDNP spoke long about how fantastic it is to develop the Hungarian Defence Office. I'm not necessarily contradicting him, I was a soldier, I can even say that if it's normally done, say, a Swiss or German example, then that's fine. But to be pleased with a Christian Democratic representative that the Hungarian Defence Force is being turned from defensive to offensive, knowing Hungarian history... And if you're a former Minister of War, you know exactly what kind of purchases are being made in the Hungarian Defence Service: buying helicopters, buying tanks, buying self-propelled guns. You can smile, sir, but to be honest, this means that for some reason we are preparing the Hungarian Defence Forces not to be in defensive positions but to be in offensive positions. I think that this is very, very far from the Christian principle, which, I think, may belong to all of us, that we may not want to hurt others, that we love our neighbors, and that I am very concerned about this matter, especially since you have also said that this is in ten years' perspective, and that this is how we will develop the Hungarian Defence Office. I would be more happy if this money were intended for someone else, but if we had to kill so much money in the defence, we would not be spending it buying attack weapons, but spending it on doing something to protect Hungarian citizens and cooperating with the surrounding countries. Thank you so much for listening.
u2019-06-20-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work with two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, Democratic Coalition. Here you go.
u2019-06-20-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Some figures concerning the basic figures of the budget, as the representatives of this government often bring forward the figures to be given in 2010. At this time, I was very happy to bring up data earlier on how much more the government spent in 2009-2010 compared to social expenditure in 2002, even if the country was hit by a global crisis. However, the increase was 30-40 percent by 2002, compared to the date of the first Orbán government's fall. However, some data still has to be told, because in the end, they determine people's everyday lives. One of these figures, for example, is always said to be your fight against sovereign debt. Well, the government debt is much higher in nominal terms than it was in 2010. So you keep the sovereign debt record. You also hold the record that is the world record that we pay 27 percent VAT. You're the record guys in this, too. [[13.20]] The Orbán government is also the record of how much a liter of gasoline costs. The fuel has never been so expensive, and I remember when Fidesz MEPs, regardless of gender, age, religion, stood up and yelled at which minister and which government member or prime minister should resign, how much the price of petrol is now. Well, you guys keep the record on this one, too. But there's still a sad record that goes by your name, which is the weakest forint ever. I remember when Viktor Orbán stood up and said that only a weak government could want weak forints. Well, then we can conclude that this is the weakest Hungarian government of all time. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-20-52	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Member László Böröcz, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-20-53	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Originally, I wanted to respond to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, who had long gone, spoke at the beginning, but I would also like to respond to a few other things. First of all, even Congresswoman said that the 2018 budget was an election budget and how much Fidesz spent. I would also like to draw Zsolt Gréczy's attention to the fact that his party had a 9.4 percent budget deficit in 2006. In 2018, the deficit was 2.2 percent. I think the Gyurcsány government could have put their hands together if they had approached this 2.2 percent in one year. It didn't work. As for Mr Imre László, what more money could be spent on, yes, we can now argue in 2019 about which sector should receive more money, how much more money we spend on which sector. Here, what you brought up, health care, we spend 740 billion forints more on health than in 2010 and we spend 185 billion forints more on 2020 plans than in 2019. In 2009, you argued about which sector to take more money from, and this is so for one reason only, that you governed in 2009 and that Fidesz-KDNP governs in 2019. Family benefits versus family allowances. There is one difference in perspective here, and I think we have also discussed this 50 million times in this House. According to Fidesz' policy, we want to build an incentive system and obviously give benefits that are not subject to the right. Congresswoman Bangón had an interesting statement that grandmothers should rest, and that is what we want to deprive grandmothers of. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That's not what Grandparents are about. It's about when they're working in the last few years, you might want to look into it. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-20-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Simicskó, Member of the KDNP Group, for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-20-55	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Just because Congressman Székely spoke to me, and perhaps if he listened to my speech, which lasted more than ten minutes, I spoke about precisely the values that represent human values, that is precisely why I quoted the letter from the apostle Paul to the Ephesians about the spiritual, spiritual strength that all people and all families and all national communities need in this rapidly changing, hasty, hasty world. The order of importance is the soldier as a man, their appreciation, their recognition, precisely in terms of strengthening the ability to maintain the defence, who guarantee security for our fellow citizens, how important this is. That's what I was talking about, and then in my speech came the importance of the acquisition of equipment for technology. Everyone knows that the technical arsenal of the Hungarian Defence Forces is in an ageing state, except perhaps the Gripens. We need modern tools. We are not preparing for an attack, we are not preparing for a war, but we are working to guarantee the country's security at the highest possible level, to honour the military profession and to make the country's defence a national business, so that is why the government is obviously working, and I can support this far-reachingly. Obviously, now that you've brought up that it's an offensive or defensive weapon, I've karated 26 years, I've played kung fu in the fifth master's degree, they're always asking if it's offensive style or defensive style. You can use it for anything, you can defend yourself and you can attack; if you attack, you defend yourself. Obviously, we do not want to attack anyone, and Hungary is not preparing for war, but to guarantee the highest possible level of security, but to do so, we also need the people, besides the respect of spiritual and human capital, technical means, because we live in such a world. And we are thinking about NATO's federal system, so obviously we are making all these security policy decisions with our allies, in which the Hungarian Defence Forces are actively involved in various international missions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-20-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Rig, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2019-06-20-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not think to comment, but my fellow Member Böröcz's speech moved me to take the floor. Well, I'm gonna have to correct your comment, and it's not my place to protect the DK health politician. The fact that the government now spends 700 billion forints more is the way it should be, because it is a nominal value and not a proportion of GDP. What the Socialist Government did in 2009 shouldn't be bothered about. In 2012, you closed down several departments and hospitals, small hospitals that were justified. The health system can only be run with money, health economists have already said that about HUF 500 billion is the amount that would help the annual budget to make the health system work. Before 2010, there were hospitals, there were professionals, there were supplies, there was vocational training. The year 2010 came, the classes were closed, small hospitals were promoted to rehabilitation institutions. What happened? Doctors, nurses, workers left the country, and unfortunately, I must say, this trend has not stopped at the moment. Your minister, Minister Kasler, had a great proposal to raise the health budget by $1,500 billion. Personally, I have said in several places that this is a Eligible proposal, because from the pit in which the health system is currently in place, this would have been an outstanding amount, which would put the health system on a runway and keep professionals at home. So if we compare pro and versus socialist government, Fidesz government, who spent so much money on health, then it is not enough nominal value, but rather GDP-proportionally, and this 700 billion is a very distant picture, mainly projected for nine years. That's what I think. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That this is not a decisive one. I need to look at what's going on right now. I would support Minister Kasler's proposal, 1500 billion more for health care. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-20-58	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Székely for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2019-06-20-59	Thank you for the floor. I am sure that you know what I mean when I talk about offensive and defensive weapons, and frankly, it is clear where we are going. I say that this is indeed a dangerous process from Hungarian history, and they do not think it by accident, and, you know, for example, in neighbouring countries, there is one in Romania, for example, where they think that Hungarians want to reclaim certain areas, there is a poll for this. Our situation is very delicate, and I therefore think that when the Hungarian state is developing an army, this very delicate situation must be taken into account here, and I too would prefer to think that Hungarian soldiers should be valued instead. It's obviously normal and XXI. It has to be a hundredth-century equipment, but it really doesn't matter what that equipment is. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-20-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Of course, a two-minute speaking opportunity can only be expected in the next round, there is no two-minute speaking opportunity now, and I will not give you the opportunity to speak. Dear Parliament, We will now continue our work with speeches from our representatives. I give the floor to Congressman Font Sándor, Fidesz Group.
u2019-06-20-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Secretary of State, Let me point out that I should reflect very briefly only on two speakers in front of me. I am afraid that history will judge the three cycles of the Orbán government so far, and even the fourth, the one calculated from,, 98, as you have just said, that it is perhaps the least powerful government you have seen in recent years. [[13.30]] I remember that, of course, it was the government you helped. Let us leave this to the historians. [[The intervention of Zsolt Gréczy.]] I think it's likely that such an increase and such a product will not be produced by many governments after us, as this government has already produced. Let's just leave it at that for now. My fellow Member, Sándor Székely, criticised the willingness, desire and the number of children to be born. Everyone should be as involved as they can, as powerful and as possible, when he is still at the age when he can do that. One child is a big deal, but two, three, maybe more. Those who could do this, we could do it, stand there when we had to. [[Towards Sándor Székely:]] By the way, my fellow Member, I am saying this quickly, because I see that he is about to leave the situation of irrigation in Hungary in the drought situation. I would just like to point out that you have missed the 17 billion forints that will be available to agriculture every year from 2020 which I would like to talk about more about, and I am just saying to him because I can see that he is in a rush, so that a 170 billion-dollar irrigation development programme will be launched, starting next year. Returning to the topic of agriculture, on which I asked for my speech, and I know that there will not be too much debate, I have seen this since last year, before last year, since in the current term in the Committee on Agriculture there are only two groups of the five-fraction opposition in four opposition places, the Jobbik was with three representatives, now there are only two members left, there has been one withdrawal, the LMP has delegated one person, and there is no involvement of the MSZP, DK and Dialogue, and there has not even been candidates for the Committee on Agriculture. It hasn't been like this since I knew the history of the Agriculture Committee that any faction, if it had, wouldn't have delegated a committee member here. Then they wonder why there are results, such as a global result, that Fidesz is always stronger in the countryside; this is a pretty clear number. So, it is worth paying attention to agriculture, I recommend it to everyone, because agriculture is a very interesting area, although by many, I am paying particular attention to the opposition here, under management. This agriculture is doing a small activity: it produces food, and people are eating food. So it is safe to say that the 7-8 billion people who are now on Earth cannot avoid the impact of agriculture, because that sector produces food and people consume food, so there is an enormous dependency situation for everyone. That is why it doesn't matter how people relate to agriculture. In 2010, agriculture was classified as a strategic sector. It was then Bagatellized by the opposition that it was only such a newspaper duck, of no importance. We thought more of this, of course, and these results have come, despite the fact that there has not been a year in which the opposition side has been scolded here at every budget, that we have brought this entire agricultural sector into disaster. I had a lot of arguments with Congressman Zoltán Gőgös at the time. Well, you could argue with him. At least he was good at an area, and we understood each other about 60-70%, we argued 30-40 percent, because we thought this whole agricultural development was genetically different. [[János Bencsik, Jobbik: What does that mean, genetically?]] We have now come to the point that the opposition is saying only that it is not good, that there is a crisis, and so on. This has been said every time since 2010, and I ask the indirect question that if the opposition had been right, this agriculture would have been ruined a long time ago. If he was right, but he was wrong. It was so wrong that between 2010 and 2018, for example, in terms of emissions, agricultural production growth, profitability, a total number, if you will allow me to say, is 65 percent increase in crop production since 2010 and 58 percent in livestock production. So we see a continuous, fluid growth in all areas of agriculture. I'm not saying that little sectoral problems don't come up at times. Unfortunately, this is part of agriculture, because there is an avian influenza that sometimes decimates poultry flocks in one part of our country; until we have had a hail avoidance system, a serious ice problem affecting the whole country; or perhaps a dry period that has unfortunately been twice in the last eight years. And it was these two years, I'm talking about the beginning of the 2010s, when we didn't know that agriculture couldn't add a serious body to the otherwise long-lasting growth of GDP. By the way, our GDP was negative that year. So we can now say that agriculture has become a very strong support for GDP growth. No one would have imagined this before 2010. He didn't even try to do anything for her. He thought it was a peripheral branch, that it was good, that they would stay quiet, that they were in the country, that they were okay, that they should live a little, and that's all, that's all, agriculture. We've seen more than that, and thank God, the results have confirmed us. In this budget, as Minister for Finance Mihály Varga said yesterday, our greatest task is to protect the results achieved and, where possible, to further push growth. The budget, thank God, will ensure that the results achieved are protected, the results that I have just mentioned, and the possibility of further growth can be seen from this budget. Let me mention an area, rural development, for example, within the framework of the Hungarian village programme, which now actually quantifys the development and development opportunities of settlements below 5000 people, which are obviously the most relevant in the countryside. And here, let me mention our now departed fellow Member Székely, referring once again to the fact that 17 billion forints per year serve only irrigation, and we expect that in a few years, the amount of irrigable areas can increase by about 100,000 hectares. I would add that we are thinking of watering surface waters, and we would like to say this very strongly, decisively, because we are a water-receiving country, we are a country with plenty of water, and we should only be able to farm with it. That doesn't work every second. This means that we have water when we shouldn't, and we don't have water when we need it, but when we have water, we let it out of the country when we don't have water, but we can't provide water to the sectors that need it, or to agriculture. And allow me to raise a policy issue here, which can solve a very exciting challenge for Hungarian agriculture, and I would like to refer to GMO-free. Around 2004-2006, there was a huge debate here in Parliament about how it could be said that we only want GMO-free crop production in Hungary. This was not common at the time in the EU, even France and Germany allowed crops to be grown with GMO propagating material. At that time, shoulder to shoulder with Austria, we said we couldn't do that. Serious procedures have been launched against us, in violation of the free movement of goods, and Hungary has been accused of everything. We're okay, we're okay. The EU Committees have finally granted concessions. So, for decades now there has been GMO-free crop production in Hungary. This is a very strong side for us. It is particularly important in our export performance, since we can demonstrate that we are only GMO-free wheat, maize, and in all other varieties that may even be covered by the GMO issue, we are free from it. However, this is not the case in livestock production, because in livestock production, feeding animals to meet their protein needs is predominantly done with GMO soy, because it takes a very large amount of protein to feed animals, and soybeans are the only one that contains a very concentrated amount of protein, and this large amount of soya cannot be produced in Europe, not just by us Hungarians, but by Europe as a whole. Therefore, they import a terrifying amount of soya from South America, Brazil, Argentina. But you have to know that all they grow there is GMO soy. They grow non-GMO soy in very minimal quantities, they try to sell it at gold prices, but they bring in GMO soy for feed throughout Europe, including some of the Hungarian livestock farmers. A few years ago, we launched a programme that, if we have now clarified in crop production that we are only carrying on GMO-free crops, which we are now known about all over Europe and the world, then let us try to make sure that we feed animals with GMO-free feed in Hungary, because the point of this is that meat products processed from them could be described as GMO-free as well. [[13.40]] This program is on the move. In Hungary, soy production has been assessed separately from national sources with very serious support, and I could say that the result is successful. At the borders of the southern part of the country, soy can be grown: it is a water- and heat-intensive plant, somogy, Baranya and Bács-Kiskun in the south. However, there was a small pitfall that we did not think about: that if we produced certified GMO-free soy in Hungary, there was such a demand in Europe that the most prestigious Swiss and German food companies now buy out all our GMO-free soy from Hungary, the Hungarian soy can be sold at a premium of 30-40 percent compared to the world market price. The result was that Hungarian animals did not get any of this GMO-free soy produced in Hungary. Therefore, the Agricultural Ministry has now opened up further, very important research areas on what other plants with high protein content we are trying to ensure that the animals are fed next to soya. If it succeeds that Hungarian animals will be raised with GMO-free feeds, then, as I said, in both crop production and livestock production, we can write that it is GMO-free on all final products. For the record, none of the countries in the world have ever been able to produce this, but it seems like we're the closest we'll ever be able to do that. Well, we also see the guarantee of this journey in this budget. There is no question that we want to support this budget on the part of agriculture. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-20-62	Thank you very much, Congressman, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr János Bencsik, the Jobbik Group, has applied for a speech. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-20-63	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to comment on the national political part of the budget. When we talk about whether and to what extent Hungarians who do not live in the territory of the country are supported by the Hungarian state at all times, this is always a socially divisive issue, we have to face it. I'm sure you're regularly experiencing sounds that people who don't live here or pay taxes here shouldn't be supported, or should be home at first, and if we've solved all our problems, then let's help those who don't live here. This is an opinion that we meet regularly. There is also a political party here in Parliament that, for example, capitalizes on this, building on these emotions and frustrations. However, in general, our problem is that all parties are trying to sweep under the carpet, even though I am convinced that we must face this social phenomenon honestly and unmistakably. For my part, as a representative of Jobbik, I would now like to argue why we consider the support of all Hungarian compatriots who do not live here to be of high importance and nation strategic importance. I'd like to suggest three reasons for your attention. The first is that to date, one in four Hungarian children are born beyond the borders, and even as a result of the migration to the West, one in six children are born in Western Europe or in the West Diaspora. We regard them as Hungarians, and we realize that unfortunately, many of them will no longer return home, they will start a family outside, they will grow up outside, but their preservation is of the same national strategic interest in Bristol or New Hampshire as, say, Ciucsereda or Székelyudvarhely. My second reason is that we have to acknowledge that without Hungarian funding, the Commissioner is waiting for these Hungarian communities to die. The question, ladies and gentlemen, is to let these Hungarian communities vanish, where the majority of neighbouring states are doing everything in their power to ensure that the goods produced in Hungarian villages and cities do not return or return in such a proportion, and that access to Hungarian culture, education and administration is as difficult as possible for Hungarians and that it is as difficult to prevail in Hungarian as possible. My third reason is that, if we look at the costs that are distributed to different ministries and into different chapter lines, we are still talking about a hundred billion in scale, which is still less than half of our annual 2020 budget. So this is about spending less than half of the Hungarian budget on one in four Hungarians. I think it is a huge achievement that we have come this far, because this has been much less before, so it is very welcome that this support is growing year after year. But I suggest to everyone who says or envys this support from foreign Hungarians that this half-percent should not be taken away from these people, especially from these people. For all the problems, education and health problems, there is the remaining 99.5 percent of which can be fixed, and there are the hundreds of billions that otherwise flow through various corruption channels. Hungarian education and health care should be recovered from this money, and not from less than half the percentage that goes beyond the border every year. I would also like to talk about the importance of autonomy, because when we talk about autonomy, we usually look only at the legal aspect of this, or at the aspect of cultural identity. Jobbik struggles and urges autonomy, territorial self-determination from its establishment, because we see that economic self-sufficiency is a very, very serious achievement and that these Hungarian regions can gain access to funds in neighbouring countries that ensure their prosperity. This is one of the most serious guarantees that those Hungarian communities abroad will not be exposed to Budapest, Bucharest, Kiev, Belgrade, Bratislava, politically or financially. We therefore believe that, in addition to the Hungarian support at all times, I stress that, besides creating the possibility, the mother country must ensure that these communities are able to grow financially through territorial autonomy on the southern Tyrolian sample. I refer now to South Tyrol because it is a very, very well-functioning example of how the minority and the majority can develop and prosper, not at each other's expense, but at each other's expense. What I would like to highlight in particular from the budget is the HUF 34 billion economic development plan. We, for our part, are fully supportive of this. We consider it very important that not only churches and schools should develop, but that there should also be an economic foothold for self-determination. We consider it important that we pay attention to the fact that every Hungarian tax forint should be sent to Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses, and that Hungarian jobs should be created.At last, the knowledge of the Hungarian language in the labour market should not be a disadvantage, but an advantage, and that there should be a chance to thrive and prevail in the homeland. We also support and consider as very positive the increased attention and turn of the Hungarian government towards Hungarians living in the diaspora. We see that the integration of schools in the Hungarian language of the weekend, the state support, the support of Hungarian houses, the organisation of the Hungarian life of faith are all very important national strategic goals, which, in the lucky case, should be national minimums, passed through party politics and through government cycles, which are taken over by all governments. That is why we support these programs, the Petőfi Sándor programme and the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor programme, and we not only support it, but also put forward a number of amendments for our part that contribute to the coordination of the educational activities of these weekend schools in Hungary, so that teachers working outside, who often spend their time and energy to organise Hungarian communities, teach Hungarian children in Hungarian, provide their work with all the necessary support, pedagogical tools and assistance, and provide this community-organizing work with the establishment and support of additional centres. I ask you to support Jobbik's budget amendments in this regard. What we cannot support, however, is an increase in the budget of the National Strategy Research Institute, which is now 1.35 billion forints. I would like to point out that the drawing and essay competitions, the various exhibitions, the Szekler Ball, the ball of halls are very nice and good. But there is Bethlen Gábor Alapkezelő Zrt. to support them. With a budget of more than HUF 43 billion, these programmes should be supported from this, and the NSKI should also address what it has to deal with on the basis of its name: produce a nation strategy. [[13.50]] Therefore, our proposal is that we would not zero out this budget line, we would leave the amount of money needed to deal with the NSKI nation strategy, but we would use all the other resources for purposes that we consider to need a lot more resources, and these I would name the preservation of foreign Hungarian memories, the extra support of the Ópusztaszer Memorial Park, and the war grave care. Now this has become particularly topical with regard to its Uzvölgy, and it has become the focus of international attention, but beyond that, we consider the provision of graveyard care in the Carpathian Basin to be a goal for which extra support is needed. I ask you once again to support our amendments in this regard. Finally, a very important issue is the year of national cohesion in 2020. We voted and supported this on Tuesday here in the walls of this House. This is particularly kind of our heart, because we view this proposal as a little bit of our own proposal, because we, Jobbik, suggested that two years ago there should be a Trianon Memorial Year, on the century anniversary of our country's mutilation, a commemorative year that we can remember. We are very glad that this is in a slightly different form, but in the end, you have submitted and accepted. However, the budget does not yet include the amount assigned to it, obviously because there has not been time for this. So we have tabled an amendment that would provide financial coverage for this in a budget of HUF 15 billion. 15 billion forints, because for example, the 1956 commemorative year was organized with this amount. I ask you, if you are serious, to support this amending proposal and to create the opportunity to end my speech here, not just in Hungary, this is a very, very important aspect that we offer you to organise commemorations and events, but also to take this matter to Western Europe, take the problems, struggles and autonomy of foreign Hungarians to the decision-makers and opinion-makers of Western Europe. In addition to the Serbian, Romanian success propaganda of the neighbouring countries, let us also bring the truth of Hungary to London, Brussels and Berlin, and let us work together to ensure that this issue, the issue of Hungarians, reaches the decision makers in Western Europe. The government can count on our support. We ask you to support our budgetary amendments, which serve this purpose. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-20-64	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, A speech will be made by Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, Member of the KDNP Group. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2019-06-20-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The general justification of the draft budget law for 2020 states that immigration affecting Europe will remain the most important political issue for the Hungarian Government. At present, religious persecution is one of the main drivers of migration in many regions of the world. In Lebanon, Syria, and Iraq, the total number of Christians has decreased by 40 percent over the last seven years, and their migration will continue without tangible financial support and security guarantees. For this reason, one of the central elements of our country's humanitarian and persecuted Christian policy is the direct and effective assistance of people in crisis areas, through the implementation of support programmes that enable communities in need to thrive in their homeland. In line with this, the aim of the program is primarily to provide humanitarian assistance to persecuted Christian communities. To this end, the Secretary of State, responsible for helping persecuted Christians and implementing the program.Hungary Helps, has been engaged in a continuous dialogue with church leaders in order to be truly effective in helping the communities who suffer persecution. On the basis of the programme proposals submitted by the leaders of ecclesiastical communities, between autumn 2016 and the beginning of 2019 Hungary's Government has allocated HUF 8.7 billion to support the communities of persecuted Christians, thus helping them to stay in place. In terms of their geographical areas, the activities of the State Secretariat have so far focused primarily on the Middle East and sub-Saharan regions, in which the Hungarian Helps.The programme has contributed to the implementation of 22 humanitarian development programmes involving a number of local actors, churches and communities. In recognition of the results of the projects carried out so far under the Programme and in order to achieve further objectives, HUF 3 billion would be allocated in the 2020 Budget Act proposal. Institutional assistance for Christian communities with persecution and discrimination is also essential for Europe's security. Europe's security is closely linked to the security of Eastern Christians. The threats to human safety include war, genocide, a mass loss of the right to food, health and housing, as well as a crisis caused by natural disasters. These factors are clearly consistent with the causes of the refugee issue and economic migration. In April 2019, the program reached another milestone when the Hungarian Helps Agency was set up to ensure that targeted assistance reaches the communities in need in as short a time as possible and that Hungary makes a decisive contribution to the elimination of migration-related processes by providing immediate assistance on site. The Agency's professional tasks were covered by an appropriation of HUF 300 million in the bill. By providing the Agency with its operating conditions, it will also be possible to develop the presence and cooperation in the non-governmental sector, as well as bilaterally based international development activities. The tasks and resources have so far existed among many wallets in a matrix organization. It was not possible to involve external resources prior to the Agency. In its proportion, the programme is adapted to the economic performance of Hungary, which, with the assistance of the Agency, enables participation in larger international projects. The program is constantly expanding, and it has also become suitable for the implementation of emergency aids with the establishment of the agency. Another important aspect is the fact that we are talking about a budget that includes ensuring the Agency's operating costs. [[Dr. István Simicskó is replaced by Dr. Lajos Szűcs.]] It is of particular importance to draw attention to the scholarship programme launched in 2017 for persecuted and discriminated Christian young people, which aims to give Christian young people who are excluded from higher education an opportunity to continue higher education studies in Hungary. The training of Christian young people not only promotes local prosperity in line with the training of Christian communities and the activities of the.Hungary Help's programme, thus reducing the migratory pressure on the European Union, but also in the long term, can also increase the cultural and economic links between the issuing countries and Hungary. The total budget of the scholarship programme is HUF 1 billion 380 million from 2016 until the end of 2019 and the budget for the year 2020 is HUF 920 million. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade also pays particular attention to international development and international humanitarian assistance programmes to address the causes of migration locally, both multilaterally and bilaterally. As a result, Hungary will strengthen its position on the international scene and improve its visibility in foreign and development policy, in line with the Hungarian Helps programme. In order to achieve this, the proposed budget for 2020 for the chapter-based allocation of international development cooperation is HUF 1 billion 250 million. The objective of the international development cooperation appropriation is to contribute to the local management of the causes of migration in Hungary's external economic objectives through strategic economic development programmes that provide room for the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises to enter foreign markets. International development cooperation is one of the most important areas of external relations. It aims to reduce world poverty and global inequality, to promote stability, peace and sustainable development. [[14.00]] International development policy is therefore one of the government's key instruments for enforcing external economic interests. The Hungarian government has established a new basis for Hungary's foreign policy and external economic presence on the African continent, especially in the sub-Saharan region. This is supported by the Government decision on export development measures necessary for the success of domestic businesses on the external market, as well as on the Africa strategy. In addition to economic relations, the strategy contains several security policy elements. In recent years, Hungary has spent significant amounts on development aid. Most of the expenditure was used in multilateral frameworks, in the form of membership fees, and through voluntary donations to international organisations, funds and payments. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years in accordance with Article 21 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 965). The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. The central element of the Hungarian migration measures is closer cooperation with countries of origin, transit and destination, combating smugglers and addressing the root causes of migration by helping to stay in place. International development activities not only help to achieve these objectives, but also have a positive impact on Hungary's economic and social relations with partner countries, which is a major tool for achieving foreign policy objectives. Global ownership is essential to address the new challenges effectively. Hungary's international development policy focuses on international solidarity and effective local assistance. Our country is strongly in favour of catching up with developing countries and helping them locally, thereby contributing to regional and international security. Humanitarian action is always based on saving people's lives: reducing suffering and preserving human dignity in situations caused by armed conflicts and natural disasters. Priority partner countries in the area of international development cooperation in Hungary are Syria, Iraq, Jordan, Uganda, Ethiopia, Kenya and Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Northern Macedonia. We need to see and understand that the situation of Eastern Christians, the population explosion in African territories, the challenges of climate change, is a vision of what we can expect from the countries of the region. Without proper, smart, local humanitarian assistance, these areas cannot become our strategic partners and the crowds coming from their direction to Europe are a clear challenge to the security of our continent. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] The Hungarian government's stand for persecuted Christians and its international humanitarian engagement has become unique and decisive in the international field. Given that the excellent results of the Hungarian economy in recent years allow Hungary not only to catch up in this area, but also to play a prominent role in preventing migration in an internationally recognised way, applying the principle of local aid, I therefore ask for the support of the draft budget law. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-20-66	Welcome, fellow Members. Thank you, Congresswoman, for your speech. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Szabó.
u2019-06-20-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. First of all, as I have done in previous years, I would like to address the situation of the municipalities, but let me say a few words about the budget for next year in general, whether my fellow Members have already spoken about it in my group or in opposition benches. Next year, the government plans a 4% increase in GDP and 2.8 percent inflation. At the same time, we see that if we compared the proportion of welfare expenditure and the percentage of GDP compared to 2010, this fell from 31.1 per cent to 24.5 per cent over the ten years. And while we could say that spending on social benefits, family benefits, pension expenditure, the narrower area of disability benefits in 2010 was still 17.5 per cent of GDP, this indicator will fall to 12.3 per cent next year. In the field of education, we also find that there is much less in 2020 than in this year in proportion to future education. Although the government is finally spending more on health than it is this year, it will be far from enough, and this is not said by us, but by health professionals, and it is not really the budget that solves the systemic problems of health. There is still only a promise of wage increases for civil servants and civil servants, which I will address a little later, although there are reserves, provisions, but there is a clear concrete promise that wage increases will be made in the local government sector, there is still no answer to that in the 2020 budget. Although we can see that the budget focuses primarily on families in the following year, we say that, as we have done before, it would be far more useful if families focused not only on a small part of them, but on all families, for example, raising the family allowance in the next year's budget would have been necessary and justified. However, no relevant data are available. Turning to the municipal budget, we find that although the local government sector receives more in nominal terms in terms of figures than in this year, there are really only shifts of emphasis. In terms of numbers, you can mostly see the repetition of last year's numbers. There are areas that receive a little more, but there are areas where there is still no change, and if we see GDP and economic growth being constantly present in the country, at least in the government's communication, it would be justified to fully implement the municipal sector, the municipal funding system. I continue to believe that I have a debate with Minister of State Banai on the fact that when the municipal system was redesigned in 2014, much more resources were taken from the municipalities than the state had taken over, and since then the local government sector has been going after the central budget. Today, there are also tasks which are not or are not sufficiently financed by the State from the central budget, which are, by the way, compulsory tasks of the municipalities. For example, if we look at the 2020 budget next year, and this figures show that there has been no change compared to this year's budget: for example, basic support for the maintenance of public lighting, basic support for road maintenance, support for residential tasks, support for recreational tasks, support for the maintenance of border crossing points, and the line could still be listed. The most striking and striking difference can be observed in the context of the local government's hoarding aids. In 2019 the budget included 25 investments covering a significant area of the country at this stage. The total value of this was HUF 10 billion. Until then, these 25 major investments, which I say again, covered the entire territory of the country, are only shown in the figures with 5 major improvements. This value, and the value of these 5 projects is less than HUF 3 billion, so this value has been reduced from HUF 10 billion to HUF 3 billion. I have previously testified that it is neither completely normal nor incomprehensible nor unfair, why is it that, in the case at hand, the ecclesiastical normative is still higher in many cases than the municipal normative. [[14.10]] I don't want to reduce the role and weight of churches, I don't even want to hurt them, because I'm sure they're doing their job with honor. At the same time, I see that within the municipal institutional system, whether mandatory or non-binding tasks are seen by the municipalities, whether social, health, cultural or any other task, territory, there is significantly less norm than in the case of churches. This is unjustified, unfair, and in many cases, I think that the municipalities could perform these tasks at least at the same level as the church would otherwise perform these tasks. In terms of cultural and public education support, there is a slight improvement in the municipalities compared to last year's budget, but there is no substantial shift here either, for example, with last year's funds, the support of the local government's public education tasks, support for the public library and public education tasks of the local authorities, support for the museum, library and public education tasks of the Municipality of Budapest, and could continue the process even here. There is a serious decline in the resources allocated to the programme "Modern Cities" (Modern Cities). While last year's appropriations included HUF 135 billion, this year only represents HUF 85 billion. Allow me to take the opportunity here to draw attention to one of my amendments, which concerns my constituency, and which, by the way, the Prime Minister had already concluded an agreement with the mayor of Szeged County City in 2017. And this is the construction of the Szeged-Mako suburban, mixed-traffic Tisza Bridge. By the way, the Prime Minister has promised this four times since 2007. In addition, in 2017 an agreement was reached within the framework of the Modern Cities programme. After that, a government decision was taken, and then HUF 15.5 billion was registered in IKOP at NIF Zrt., the town of Szeged's county town prepared the necessary study plans, but the project stopped. I asked the competent ministry a number of written questions in this regard and received a negative reply in the absence of a source. I now ask you to include this in the 2020 budget, which I do not see there, in accordance with the 2017 agreement. There is a duality here too regarding local governments, because although there is a step backwards in terms of the modern cities, and this should be the place of praise, the government has planned HUF 90 billion for the launch of this year's budget, for example, for the launch of the Hungarian village programme, which I think is welcome and should be supported. Of this HUF 90 billion, 50 billion is also to be spent on the village road base, which is also the voice of praise, as I have asked several questions about this too, and I think all Members see that the state of the country's roads is catastrophic, and there is a very large lag in the state of the Hungarian roads. The resources for this are few, and in many cases it is safe and accident-free to reach individual settlements either. This is particularly true for back roads, but unfortunately, in many cases, it is also justified to improve three-digit and two-digit roads. Here, too, I have an amendment, and I think the worst trip in the country is between Szeged-Szőreg and Kübekháza. It is a 9,5 - mile [9.5 km] section from a 14 - mile [14 km] road that needs to be renovated, and public transport can only travel by 40 km/h. I would ask you to provide the source of this, if that is possible. As I said, it is neither visible nor guaranteed, more precisely within the framework of reserves and provisions, the source of how public servants and civil servants and municipal civil servants will raise their wages this year. We have seen that in 2019 11 billion HUF could be used for this, also on a tender basis, but this source was not provided by the central budget, but by the richer, more wealthy municipalities. This has led to the fact that in the municipalities in which this 11 billion-dollar fund had to be paid, there was no increase in the salary base, so in many cases there was no increase in the salaries of the public servants, because the tender was conditional on an increase in the salary base, if any. But after these more affluent municipalities paid in, there was no increase in the salary base in this way, which, by definition, resulted in a very large number of cases where the salaries of municipal workers did not increase. So it remains a question of what will happen to the 80,000 people whose salary has not changed in ten years now. Promise, that's what's going on. It's still on the promise level. There was a consultation with the Public Service and Public Employment Workers' Union. I am not saying that they say that otherwise there are no clear and concrete figures in the current budget for raising wages for public servants or civil servants. More than HUF 21 700 billion in Hungary's budget, I think it is ten billion forints, this tender system is incomprehensible and unjustified, otherwise it would be easier if the government provided funds for this. Precisely because the local government system is still going after the central budget, I am making repeated use of my amendments to ensure a better opportunity to finance municipalities. This is not a recent amendment either. I've been doing it for years, and I'm doing it now. This applies to 80 per cent of the current 40 per cent of the car tax staying in the municipalities, as well as the former transferred portion of the personal income tax, which, by the way, used to be in the municipalities, leaving 10 per cent of it in the municipalities. I am not the only one who disputes this, or I say that the municipal advocacy associations have previously taken a similar position, and they likewise believe that my proposals for this amendment will stand up to them. Overall, it can be said that the municipal funding system is still not stable and that much more funding from the central budget should be provided. In general, we can say that the MSZP faction intends to submit amendments to the next year's budget that will provide the resources needed for education, the resources needed for a substantial increase in wages for health workers and strengthen the social care system. Please either support my amendments to the municipal system and our social, health and educational amendments. Thank you for listening.
u2019-06-20-68	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Varga.
u2019-06-20-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Budget support and interventions to support the green economy are particularly important for our country. We need to support all activities and proposals aimed at developing and developing a green economy that facilitates the transition to sustainability, such as environmentally friendly agricultural modes, long-term sustainable financial transactions, material and energy-saving construction methods or even low-emission transport solutions. Programmes, interventions that serve the development of the economy, should not conflict with environmental interests. We have a budget that helps us to enforce sustainability aspects in our everyday lives, and also provides an appropriate basis for maintaining the 4-percent annual growth of the Hungarian economy in Europe, which is one of the few. We are well aware that the development of the green economy, the sustainability of the economy, is a long and difficult process, but we also know that there is no alternative. But it can also be seen if we look around the world at the fact that the nations that are among the first to transform their economies into sustainable ones have very serious benefits in terms of economic, social and environmental aspects. [[14.20]] Let us not respond to the events around us, but let us guide the others. The performance of the Hungarian economy gives rise to this approach. Ladies and gentlemen, It is already known at international level and at home that Hungary intends to play a role in the development of the green economy, taking into account the country's potential and potential, as the green economy must sooner or later replace the economic model based on the use of fossil fuels, and the sooner this happens, the better. In technology and production we are already living in the fourth industrial revolution, Internet-based economic models are organized, machines communicate with machines through the network, but in the meantime we provide energy in a way that quotes the time of the second industrial revolution. Here it is worth noting the fact that the development of a green economy, which is also at the heart of sustainability, is already underway in Hungary. After accession to the European Union, social reception in relation to the ecological aspects of EU membership, environmental protection and regulatory systems associated with interaction were adopted and applied, and in June 2016 Hungary made remarkable commitments in the field of green economy, all of which already have a short-term impact: the development and energy modernisation of the thermal insulation of the building stock at municipal, corporate and residential levels; the development of short supply chains and producer markets; the preservation and improvement of the quality of public transport. For railway development, 85 HUF 384 billion is available in 2020 to support public transport. The continuous technological development of agriculture, such as the support for irrigation, can be found at HUF 9.4 billion in the 2020 budget. It also includes identifying the necessary measures to reduce food waste and loss. Support for these measures is all guaranteed in the budget for next year. Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps today's most unavoidable sustainability issue is energy: in what environmentally sound way and at what cost can we generate energy, and how effectively and sparingly can we use energy at our disposal? This budget supports significant changes in the Hungarian and international energy sectors. It is well known that alternative solutions exist, but for example, the biggest drawback of solar and wind energy is that, due to the uncertainty of their availability, the energy supply of a country simply cannot be based on them, quoting classics: electricity is needed in the night and in the wind silence. Not to mention the fact that solar panels and accumulators are produced because of the highly environmentally polluting and exploitative technology, including the mining of rare heavy metals and the production of large quantities and the generation of hazardous waste after use. So we have a difficult task if we also want to act environmentally consciously in our energy use. The production of electricity in a nuclear power plant is a balanced technology with regard to environmental load, thus, unlike traditional methods, it is much more environmentally friendly, using fashionable words: its ecological footprint is justified. But this is not the only reason why the whole country, especially the Field, is monitoring the development of Paks II investment, as the related jobs or cultural, transport and educational investments will not leave our area intact. My constituency, South Head, therefore clearly supports and awaits Paks II. the realization of it. It is also part of the development of the green economy that, through the green economy financing system, the 2020 budget supports the transfer price of energy from renewable sources by HUF 34.8 billion and encourages residential energy modernisation. Here, I could mention the "Home Gay" program, the household machine change program and all that. Energy modernisations with increased emphasis on the evaluation of grants will continue to be available at municipal, corporate and residential levels, and applications for solar energy for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs have been announced in recent days. Thanks to these measures, Hungary has been able and will be able to achieve huge savings in energy use. It is therefore important that our artificial environment be shaped in harmony with the natural environment, in harmony with economic activities and plans to bring about positive demographic change. In order to achieve these objectives, coordinated social and economic action is needed. In order to address environmental problems facing global disasters and to develop a sustainable social model, the behaviour of people and organisations should change. This can be facilitated by laws, regulations and incentives by changing community, non-governmental social processes, awareness-raising, attitudes and values and fundamental beliefs. Only those who have the culture, attitude and knowledge to build a sustainable society can do this. Hungary, as you can see from the measures taken in recent years, has these. In conclusion, to sum up so far, the further construction of the green economy ensured in the Hungarian budget that the growth of the Hungarian economy by 4% per year is stable above the EU average, HUF 2228 billion is available to support Hungarian families, and the planned deficit of the government sector by 2020 is only 1 percent. This is called a long-term sustainability-enhancing budget. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-20-70	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató.
u2019-06-20-71	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Of course, when evaluating next year's budget, we can take into account a number of aspects, whether global aspects, the general situation and figures of the budget or measures in each area. Allow me now to take out a few nodes, those that are particularly important to me, exciting, and show why we say to this budget that it is a budget for breaking down, flopping, staying in place, does not invest in areas where it is really necessary, does not invest in the future of the country, does not invest in the ability of Hungary to really catch up and develop. The figures that Mr Secretary of State boasts here are very nice, and of course, it can be said that these macro numbers show how wise their fiscal policies are, but the budget is much more than setting deficit targets, or much more than trying to meet EU expectations and international credit rating agencies in some macro indicators. A budget is always about value choice, it's always about what a government considers important, what it considers relevant. Let me therefore highlight some areas that I think are very important in this regard. Let the first of these be the area of culture and public education. Mr Simon says here, too, what wonderful results there are in the field of culture, but anyone who knows this area, who knows everyday life, knows that this kind of evaluation is very far from what the people in the cultural area see. Let me mention some of these examples. The first thing I would like to mention, and this is an absolute budgetary issue, is what happens to the wages of people working in public works. It is truly impressive and touching when Congressman L. Simon tells us that a pilot project has been launched at the Petőfi Literature Museum, and if it succeeds, it may be possible to extend it to other areas of culture and public culture. [[14.30]] So let us be clear, fellow Members, let us not play puppet theatre here. At the Petőfi Literature Museum, you replaced a moderate, slightly competent fidesz for a non-tempered, bloody-mouthed political commissar. Now you can take some money with you as a reward, which you can distribute to your colleagues, who are willing and able to endure the professional quality and political orientation in which this museum, which once was a well-known workshop of Hungarian culture, is moving. Don't pretend this has anything to do with what happens to the other public education institutions, museums, the rural museum network or the salaries of those working in other areas of public culture! I'll tell you what happens: nothing happens. Nothing is happening, because just as the public sector as a whole, they do not give the substantial wage increase they deserve, the kind of support that culture, as no doubt the nation, the country, deserves in one of the most important areas of society. The situation is similar in the theatre area. They've eliminated the theatre lake, the cultural lake, cultural lake, so don't let the source go there. You can go to soccer without counting, you can even ease the rules there, basically there, in visual sports, and then you can count everything. Culture doesn't deserve the same. It does not deserve to continue to operate the model, which was otherwise developed with the broad agreement of the profession, and the essence of which was to be interested in theatres or cultural institutions in general, to find supporters, to have a kind of partnership, to start involving the business sphere in the financing of culture alongside state resources. Instead, what have you done? What they did was they stopped this system, saying there were abuses. Otherwise, they did nothing against abuse for eight years, but then they abolished this system on the grounds of abuse and then set up a state amount. But, of course, we already know that the only person who gets the state's money is someone who's pretty good with the cultural government. You can see how this money was distributed. The closer someone is to you, to your taste, to your politics, to your party at times, the more you could count on your support. Those who are the furthest, alternative theatres who sometimes even dare to press political questions, but these theatres have practically fallen away from this support, for example, they receive little support from Atrium, for example, a third of what was previously collected from Tao, in Hungarian, they are condemned to be eliminated and starved. This is a bit worse than what was in the Kádár era when there was at least one tolerated category of this kind of alternative cultural world. You obviously want to strangle this world, and in the meantime, where you think that you have friendly faces, and that you really have uncounted public money. [[György Szilágyi will take his place in the notary seat.]] Let me give you another example. And I could really continue this cultural line about your cultural policy. You've created a film industry and a film support system, so how do I put this delicately? a personalised system designed for the former Commissioner of the Government for Film. I'm sure we could talk about it on another occasion, but there's no way this model works right now, how well it doesn't work. I think it's fair to admit that he's brought results, by the way. But we do not see in any way what the government's strategic vision of Hungarian film is. How do you think the government will continue without András Vajna? We see that the budget money is there, but what is happening with this area, what is happening with this resource, there is essentially no government concept. So, in conclusion, I can say that your cultural policy and this excellent impression of this budget basically includes the fact that only political usefulness, your government goals alone, the autonomy of culture, just like any other autonomy, cannot really endure, starve, destroy workshops that, on the one hand, could be a kind of freshness, alternativity, which, we all know, is always a very important factor in art, which drives art and culture forward. Those who otherwise do not fit into the existing order, no matter what order it is, are called upon to do so, and do not receive adequate support, and even the hair root of culture continues to decay, cultural institutions, rural and even capital public education institutions, museums, public cultural institutions, and people working in them who otherwise keep Hungarian public culture and culture alive. What about education? I was very pleased to hear part of the speech made by the Member before me, namely the part that dealt with how changing a world we live in. And I agree with him deeply. Indeed, robotics, climate change and the transformation of the economy in general, it calls for new economic models and new production models. But the government just likes to talk about it, my honourable fellow Member, not to act. A knowledge-based economy, a green economy, begins with education. It starts with the fact that we're actually spending money on this area. The good solution is not to carry on the current tensions, but to put very serious resources into meaningful development. It was very proud to announce that a heavy HUF 48 billion surplus could be placed in this area the following year. Do you know what the total budget for education is? I'll tell you, 2,300 billion. This amount is slightly over 2 percent. This surplus, which you provide for education, means that there is no inflation monitoring in this system, or there is barely any, and we'll see how well you can guess inflation. But about the fundamental structural problems that have affected education not only since your governance but also before, but what has made a lot worse is the robbing of education that took place in 2012-13 to alleviate these tensions, there is no substantial source of this in this budget. In addition to these figures, it is not possible to dream of responding to the challenges facing the education system that the changing economic environment and changing social environment are facing. This budget does not invest in the future. This budget does not spend on the future of the country, either in education or in health care, which Imre László spoke about earlier. Let me mention here a painful point that is overwhelming the whole educator society in an extraordinary way. When you introduced the salary system, the bureaucratic system called the new career in public education, you promised that the salary base in the career model would be the minimum wage at all times. Compared to this, this promise has been withdrawn after a year, even with you, and still to this day, the initial 2014 salary base, if I remember correctly, is calculated, which means that the salary base continues to be HUF 101,500, which simply shows and means that teachers' wages are rapidly losing their competitiveness. This can also be fully understood from the point of view of how this country can count on the teachers you deceive and abandon. How do we expect them to raise our children conscientiously if the government otherwise fails to meet their commitments? Of course, I know my teachers, and I know that if you growl, and often angry and outraged, they do their job. But there is another aspect, my fellow Members. We know that every international context shows that the educational system is effective for countries where the teaching field can be an attractive track, where the most talented, ambitious young people can choose to go to the pedagogical area. [[14.40]] This is with the starter wages that are now just ahead of the minimum wage... Earlier, there was an extremely embarrassing situation when it was lower and the teachers had to pay at minimum wage; today it is a bit ahead. But that doesn't mean competitiveness. This means that the teaching field will remain uncompetitive. Young people who are either very dedicated will go on this course. It wouldn't be a problem, or it would be for those who can't get a job elsewhere. But even the most dedicated educator in a few years will be discouraged if he feels that what he receives is not enough for a minimum of living. We don't need cosmetic work here, we need a few percent, and we need to give it here now, and then during the year, and then in September, of course, it doesn't cost too much, a few percent increase. This is not the scale of the problem. Today, in the case of teachers, due to this downtime, the measure you have taken is already above 100,000 forints per teacher on average. This is the deficit that you promised me and you didn't give me. Give this back to the teachers. Then there will be a chance that education will work well, then there is a chance that teachers will be able to ask for additional performance and to be able to develop, progress, and attract young people who are really able to bring a new approach to education. The situation in higher education is similar. I'm not gonna tell you this in detail. The same is true: a slow decay is the fate of higher education. Higher education always receives just enough money not to collapse, from this point of view it is undoubtedly in a better position than health care, which does not get enough to survive the system, but never enough to improve otherwise. Of course, we know that this also involves the fact that you have a great model for privatization of higher education called the Corvinus model. Obviously, the aim is for universities to be happy to flee into privatization from the grips of a very narrow state budget, and to take risks that Corvinus is also taking, and we do not know what will happen in the longer term. Finally, let me mention, since we talked about the knowledge economy, that the budget will, of course, lead to the kidnapping of the research institute network of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. The budget runs through the type of einstand you have done; it's very similar to culture. So far, there's been no money for science. To date, opposition representatives have tabled amendments aimed at increasing research resources in vain. Now that the government has taken over this system of institutions with the power of force, suddenly there is money to support the research institute network. I offer you a very practical solution: leave the institution network at the Academy and give this money to the Academy. They will know how to use this money in order to improve Hungarian science. You have not shown much success in this area. Speaking of teachers' wages, let me mention other areas of the public sector. What is the situation in other areas of the public sector? I'm really just taking a few examples. Mr Sándor Szabó already mentioned the situation of municipal civil servants. Again, they have a wage increase at promised level, also in a system where, by the way, a large part of this resource will be taken away from other municipalities. This is obviously not a fair solution. In the case of municipal civil servants, there has been no substantial, transparent, wage-plated wage development in essence for ten years. What about the government administration system, or more generally, forgive the central administration system? You were very proud of the new system that you have introduced, and how those new public service laws will motivate government officials. Two things turned out: one thing is that only one group of government officials actually received a wage increase on the one hand, on the other hand, according to rather arbitrary criteria, and, on the other hand, precisely those who are most closely associated with citizens were the government officials working in county government offices. I think it is very clear that government officials have voted with their feet on the new system that you are driving and on the new salary system that you have promised. Minister Gergely Gulyás admitted at the parliamentary committee hearing that 2500 government officials left this system. You can see, my favourite example, that a brand-new steering window was opened at Western and Eastern Stations, which, by the way, went well until they were closed, was referred to alleged design errors, while everyone who knew this system knew that it was simply a matter of not having a government official who could have been planted there. Overall, I can say that this example also shows, but examples of education or culture show that, while you are very keen to refer to national interests, you are not actually investing in public services, in fact, there is a slow bleeding out of public services. It's better, they always choose 12-13 data. With the Széll Kálmán plan, which has undoubtedly been the largest austerity package in the history of Hungarian budgets since the Bokros package, funds have been taken from many areas of the public sector, and some of which are slowly being dribbled back. Some have already reached the level of 2007-2008, and I would like to congratulate you specifically on this, so the pre-crisis level, but far from the solution, there are many areas of the public sector where this has not yet been achieved. But the fact that, by the way, the development result of the allegedly roaring economy would be anything to the public services, it is not. At that time I had not spoken, but briefly mentioned, the social sphere, where people work for absolutely amazing wages to help our poorest, weakest fellow citizens, or even to care for children going to the nursery. It is humiliating and unacceptable as the wage situation is in this area, and it is also that, in essence, there has not been any meaningful progress in the last ten years. Let me mention one more area. You're proud of the respect of law enforcement workers and police officers. They like to play the part of how much they do for the country's security. Reality is what the cops put out themselves. I suggest you go up to, say, a Facebook page called Cop Supply, see what the cops put up when they post their own pay slips. Officers on the field for 15-20 years make 200-250-300 thousand forints net by risking their lives every day for you and Hungarian citizens. This is amazing and humiliating. All in all, I must say that over the last decade, you have taken very significant resources in many areas of the public sector, you look down on and humiliate the people who work for us in the public service. They don't deserve that. Today, the public service system is so messed up with the many types of pay tables, career models, allowances and other things that it is not possible to improve and cure this situation by intervening here and there. We therefore propose that the public service system be completely rebuilt. In this context, the wages and salaries of workers in almost all areas of the public sector should be settled. Officials of the Ministry are well-built, your recently politically selected staff, not to mention the Deputy State Secretary and State Secretary. But besides them, this government owes roughly every employee in the public sector. We propose that we create a reserve that opens up the possibility of raising salaries and wages for all public sector workers. It's not a small amount, it's a lot of hundreds of billions of dollars. But there are far more wasteful items in this budget that are far less important than, by the way, that the wages of those working in health care, education, public administration, law enforcement or culture are finally settled and a series of negotiations should start where trade unions, involving the social partners, are agreed on how to make the most effective use of this resource to strengthen the public sector. There is a crisis throughout the public sector and there is a need for radical fiscal measures. Finally, I would like to touch briefly on another area, and this is the issue of disabled people. There is a valid decision by the Constitutional Court that you have wrongfully and unjustly taken the disability pension from a number of people. [[14.50]] The Constitutional Court has ordered the Hungarian Parliament to adopt legislation to remedy this situation. This did not happen by the deadline, all the opposition proposals in this regard were swept off the table, and they refused to take it on the agenda. We propose that we create funds in the budget to address the situation of disabled pensioners, the situation of people who have lost their benefits because of this illegal situation. And one more thing is needed in this area: it is absolutely inhumane and ridiculous that the minimum pension is still 28 500 forints. It's untenable. We have to change that. At least for these two things, there must be serious funding in this budget. Finally, I would like to respond to the two false statements made in the debate, and I would like to help to ensure that there are no misunderstandings. On the one hand, it was very interesting, what Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász said about the program and its greatness, but there is a fundamental misunderstanding here. He says that this program is good because the refugee issue, the main reason for the arrival of refugees, is religious persecution, and if we help Christians, it helps to reduce the wave of refugees. Although this is no longer a serious problem in Hungary, but if this is the government's goal, I must say that it is a very wrong and misguided programme. I mean, if you think about it, most of the asylum seekers who came to us, your press, they processed it in detail and often put it on the table, it was not a Christian religion. That was your main objection to them, which is why they were treated inhuman and unjustly. I don't suppose a government that claims to be a Christian Democrat would treat Christian refugees the way you treated these people. I have to add, of course, that a government claiming to be a humanist does not treat people this way without religious affiliation. But we all know that this statement does not correspond to the reality that only Christians here must flee the Middle East, say, from Syria. The extremists who attacked people by reference to religion, unfortunately, did not choose, or fortunately did not choose, I don't know what to say... factually, they didn't choose what religion the victims were, and they had to flee from it, regardless of everyone's religion. Obviously, it is a misunderstanding if one also explains economic migration for religious reasons. The essence of economic migration is that it does not happen because of persecution, but because of economic reasons. This has nothing to do with religion. You are also wrong, Mr Bencsik, when you mention, if I understand correctly, that there are parties who would generally disagree with Hungary's responsibility for the survival of Hungarian communities across the border. You remember that it was the Gyurcsány government who created a significant fund called the Parent Land Fund. There is just a small difference between your policy on Hungarians across the border and our policy at the time: we put this amount on the table there. We said that we could devote so much to this, and we sat down with Hungarian organisations across the border and agreed with them on what areas these resources were important to them. I attended a number of meetings of the Educational and Cultural Sub-Committee, I believe, where we have certainly looked at the resources needed by which Hungarian community across the border. And that's not how it happens today. Today you give support to Hungarians across the border to buy a vote with it. I remember when, in the previous election campaign, the Prime Minister went to hand over a church and told us that,, well, that's why we have to vote for us, because that's when there's gonna be such great things. And I must say that this procedure is unfair, on the one hand, and this procedure is not in the interests of Hungarian communities across borders. They are interested in fulfilling their autonomy, their provision of their own affairs, and in this the development of Budapest dependency, the support of certain organisations, and the elimination of others are equally damaging, as is often the behaviour of the politicians of the mother countries or of the countries in which these minorities live. All in all, we can therefore say about this budget on behalf of the Democratic Coalition that there is not enough resources in this budget for a number of important tasks. There is not enough resources in the first place, that is what I was talking about, the settlement of the public sector, the appreciation of public sector workers, the proper financial recognition of public servants working in culture, education, law enforcement, social affairs and offices. There is not enough money in it to settle the situation of disabled pensioners and those on minimum pensions. We cannot therefore support this budget. We do not have much hope that you will leave it with amendments to improve it, but we will do a large-scale experiment and look forward to the result. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-20-72	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Peter Fekete.
u2019-06-20-73	Honourable Congressman, The Secretary of State for Culture is always available to assist any Member in compiling his speech by providing correct figures. Please allow me to help you with a few figures so that in your next speech, these can be made correct. In front of me, there is a figure showing support for cultural activities in the order of HUF 172 billion by 2010. This amounts to HUF 578 billion by 2020. These two figures show how many times the amount to be spent on culture in Hungary has increased over the last ten years. It is extremely important for me to be able to put the information about Tao's release into place with correct information. Indeed, the Government of Hungary has decided that a transparent, predictable system that has previously been named and operated as a cultural lake should be transformed. More than one year of preparation, the decision to add a predictable, predictable, eligible amount of HUF 36.4 billion to this sphere was made following preparatory work with all participants in the profession. You mentioned the safety of the independent sphere. I would like to inform Mr President that the support of the performing arts organisations takes place on a monthly basis with the Independent Artistic Association, and that all independent performers and art experimenters, seeking new ones, received more funds than the tao collected in 2017. The question of the Atrium Film Theatre has been discussed, and since in the press they often exemplify the Atrium Film Theatre, please allow me to inform you that in 2016, THEA Nonprofit Kft., operating the Atrium Film Theatre, used HUF 7.7 million in 2017 and HUF 78 million in 2018. The average of these three years is 31 million forints, whereas 50 million forints of support for this theatre has been assessed. This is much more than the aid used in 2017 and the average of the three years. I would like to inform you, Member, that all the stone theatres in Budapest and all rural areas with public tasks received a higher amount of support than the tao used in 2017. These basic grants, together with a thematic tender system of approximately HUF 4 billion, are currently being evaluated. He asked the theatres not to have to rely on the uncertainty of the private sphere and on the commission system of the intermediaries. We've managed to get them both out. You are talking about abuses, Mr President, I would like to inform you that there are 40 organisations that have been investigated for how much commission has been paid in the past period. These tests are currently underway. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-20-74	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. State Secretary Péter Benő Banai has also indicated his wish to speak to him. You have the floor.
u2019-06-20-75	Thank you very much. Mr President, I would like to continue with the factual list of Mr Black Secretary of State, reflecting on Mr President's comments. Mr President, Mr President, you have said that the government has withdrawn funds from public sector areas. Mr Black Secretary of State has actually said what changes have been made in the field of culture. [[15.00]] Let me tell you, in the educational and health field you mentioned, there were a great deal of surpluses. Compared to 2010, the 2020 budget bill before this House will add HUF 633 billion and HUF 770 billion in the health field compared to 2010. Whatever calculation we make, this increase is not only a nominal increase, but also an increase in real terms. Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, you said that public sector workers have neither increased nor increased properly, and there is wage tension. Let me just say, in fact, that public finances have a wage-like expenditure gap between 2010 and 2020 of HUF 1500 billion. In recent years, different wage increases have been made in different areas, as Mr President pointed out. A multi-stage wage increase was launched by teachers in 2013 and a significant wage increase was made in most areas of the public sector, which represents the additional wage expenditure of around HUF 1500 billion. I would like to clarify what the Member has said in relation to the fact that there has been a wage increase, not this year, but earlier. In 2016, the average wage increase was 48 per cent for district officials, with an average increase of 31 per cent for county government officials in 2017. It is undoubtedly true that these wage increases, thank God, have often meant that public sector workers' wages have been brought to that level by the state, which has also been achieved in the competitive sphere, or, in many cases, we see that in recent years even greater wage increases have been made in the competitive sphere. I believe that this in itself is a positive thing, namely, not only in certain areas of the public sector, but also in the whole national economy, a significant increase in wages has been achieved. This has resulted in a significant increase in real wages at national level over the past period. And if we consider it necessary and important for wage increases to continue in the public sector in 2020, then I think that there is also a part of the draft budget law that can be supported in this respect, because there is a HUF 152 billion framework for wage increases for public sector workers, which can be decided later and which could cover the different levels of wage increases for public sector workers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-20-76	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I now give the floor to Congressman Robert Balázs Simon.
u2019-06-20-77	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As one of the Vice-Presidents of the Cultural Committee and a Member of the Parliament of the City of Győr, I would like to comment in a little bit more on an area that is part of the culture, and that is sport. The objective of sport as a strategic sector is to make Hungary a sports nation and a sports nation, offering an alternative to all age groups in society in terms of sports opportunities, ensuring a professional transition between leisure and competition sport. The government pays particular attention to further improving the health of the population, increasing the number of regular athletes, which can also make a significant contribution in the long term to reducing health expenditure. The strategic role of sport is therefore an important goal to strengthen the state of health and cultural cohesion of the nation, and to keep traditional Hungarian appearances at a level and to increase effectiveness. In line with these objectives, when planning the budget for the sport sector for 2020, it seems quite right that the baseline approach has taken place. If we compare next year with the last 2010 budget of socialist-free democratic governance, we can see that under the Fidesz-KDNP, we have ten times more spending on sport. Between 2002-2010, the sector was bled out, and the annual budget of sport was barely over HUF 20 billion, along with the royalties of Formula-1 4.5 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, If we look in more detail at the appropriations for sport in the draft budget for next year, we can see that support for re-education programmes and the development of the academic system will continue. In 2020, the support of the academic system of national sports associations and the support of the Hungarian Football Association will increase by another HUF 10 billion in addition to the HUF 9 billion allocated to support the tasks of the Hungarian Football Association. If we add the additional HUF 2.3 billion earmarked for replacement training tasks to this, then we can see that only the government provides more support for replacement training tasks than the socialists provide support for the whole sport sector at the time, in 2010. The Olympic and Paralympic Games in Tokyo in 2020 are decisive in supporting competition sports, and accordingly, the support for competition sports will increase by more than HUF 4 billion compared to this year, to HUF 9.8 billion, to be exact, and the professional support for the Olympic preparation will increase by HUF 900 million, making it HUF 3.1 billion. This appropriation is intended to support the preparation and participation of the Olympics and to ensure the preparation of national selected athletes by means of undisturbed and modern training methods. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of 42 national sports associations and around 150 sports organisations through sports texts. In addition to government measures to improve the effectiveness of competition sport, the expansion of the social base of sport will also have a strong role to play. It is a strategic task to support key sports such as table tennis, athletics, wrestling, rowing, judo, kayak canoe, karate, bike, skating, boxing, pentathlon, sport shooting, tennis, gymnastics, swimming and fencing, as well as the strategic functions of major sports associations. In support of the tasks related to the implementation of the sports development concepts, the budget provides HUF 22.2 billion, i.e. HUF 10 billion more than in this year. I note here that the development programme has led to an increase in both the combined number of adult and replacement athletes with a competitive licence, both in the number of coaches and in the number of member organisations. In addition, sports not included in the main sports disciplines, but important from a sports point of view, are a few of these: horse sports, diving, rugby, ski, snowboarding, weightlifting, diving, lawnball, surfing, sports climbing, skateboarding, support for additional professional tasks and development tasks. The talent management program for emerging sports includes innovative sports that are popular among society, such as bowling, squash, Frisbee, canoeing, aikido, wusu, motor water sports, motor sports, fishing, chess, orientation running, bodybuilding and fitness, hiking and field running, water ski and wakeboard, armander, dog sports. Support for high-level sports events in Hungary remains a priority, which, in addition to its professional and diplomatic achievements, have a significant impact on society due to the promotion of sports, the creation of role models and the spread of volunteering. A further development trend is expected in 2020 to increase the number of international sporting events organised in Hungary, with nearly 120 flagship international sporting events, as well as international conferences and congresses being supported. Sports programmes, student and higher education sports, and the promotion of sports for people with disabilities, as well as for disadvantaged social groups, are crucial tasks for sport. [[15.10]] The development of sports facilities is important, and the implementation of the strategy for the development of sports facilities for the period 2014-2020 adopted by the government is the objective to be pursued in this area. In particular, the development of state-owned sports facilities includes the development of Olympic centres and other strategically important public sports facilities. I would like to highlight one thing, and this is the Ferenc Kemény Sports Facility Development Program, under the current project title of the Southern City Gate-Budapest Student City Development Programme. Developments in this context will launch deficit replacement investments in northern Csepel and South Pest. The programme brings together urban development in the currently neglected parts of the city and forms the areas of North Csepel and South Pest along the Soroksári-Duna branch. The preparatory work of one of the largest urban development projects in Hungary in recent decades has already started and started. A new part of the city will be born, which will be the largest active green surface in Budapest. Several thousand university cities are built in the area that has been neglected and broken down for decades, abandoned brownfield areas are being renewed, sports and recreational facilities are being built, offering a wide range of sports and leisure opportunities to the residents of the student city, the local population and the inhabitants of the wider urban area. The natural environment will be renewed, environmental damage will be eliminated and green areas suitable for active health preservation, rest and sport will be created, so everyone will win with the investment, including the population, athletes and the environment. Ladies and gentlemen, The Aladár Gerevich Sports Scholar Scholar Scholar Scholar Gerevich's Aladár Sport Scholar Scholarship, the high-ranking training program, the life-long program of the re-trainers and the Hungarian Sports Stars Scholarship will be used to provide the background necessary for effective performance, provide direct financial support for the athletes and sports professionals. Under the Government Decree on State Rewards for certain outstanding sports performances, athletes who reach 1-8th place at sports world events and trainers, educators and sports professionals involved in their training receive state rewards, and medalists and trainers and athletes who prepare them in Europe and the world. The Olympic allowance and the annuity of the sporter of the Nation serve to appreciate the high quality activities and careers of the right holders for decades. The budget for the recognition of sports performances is HUF 2.1 billion, which is significantly higher than this year's HUF 140 million due to the Olympic and Paralympic State Prize. To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, I have highlighted the budgetary vision of the sport sector for next year at the moment, a draft budget, which we hope will become a budget, since it will receive the necessary support. I can also say that, in addition to the fact that families are fully supported by the budget, economic operators, as tax cuts are being made and, as has been said in the Minister's exposé, economic growth is expected to be around 4 per cent. I would also like to highlight the reserve, which is a security reserve, the sum of which represents 1 percent of the budget. I think that we can press yes in the final vote on the budget. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-20-78	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck.
u2019-06-20-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In the context of the plenary debate, many aspects and arguments have already been expressed as to why the budget submitted by the Fidesz government for 2020 is bad and unacceptable. Let me now evaluate this draft budget for sustainable development a little bit. Ladies and gentlemen, In order to be able to properly assess the budget from this point of view, it would be good to have it here in Parliament from time to time to interpret sustainable development together. This would be very important because it appears that in the interpretation of sustainable development, he has experienced a wide variety of changes in his about 30 years of history. I have to say, nowadays, it is quite often said that sustainable development is simply confused with sustainable economic growth. But, ladies and gentlemen, sustainable economic growth in a finite world is not what it is. Today, we are using 1.7 planets, using such resources, and this obviously cannot continue for a long time. In this respect, the world economy is also facing a major paradigm shift, and we will need to rethink our relationship to economic growth. And I have to say, what we need to think about is that the essence of the sustainability approach is that in every decision we make, every action we take, we have to be aware that our main goal is the well-being of society - with two ls, the environment is a fundamental condition and cannot be replaced with anything else, with all its values and resources, and the economy is just a tool, although it is an important tool to contribute to the achievement of well-being by the wise use of natural resources. In the idea of sustainability, we are consciously talking about well-being with two ls, not well-being with a l, which actually means material well-being. By the way, it is very simple to see that human well-being is not only about material well-being, but also about the quality of our environment, that we live in a living environment, or, for example, when we think about the forest, the forest is not only about material benefits, but also about the intangible benefits of the forest. And all of this must mean that we cannot constantly talk about forced economic growth. Rather, we need to talk about the fact that society, the environment and the economy form an organic system in which all of them are opportunities, but also a barrier to the other two dimensions. If we look at the draft budget now, it can be concluded that it does not bring us closer, but will divert us further from setting our country on a sustainable path in the long term. Its fundamental approach is also flawed, because health and a healthy environment, knowledge, real preservation and creation, solidarity, equal opportunities and the development of our ability to adapt to changing worlds and changing circumstances are essential for human and social well-being. However, this budget is again about breaking up society, restoring and restoring health, reducing education and research and culture to many levels; it ignores all those for whom and with whom we can create a better world. This budget, contrary to the government's claim, is not even in the real interest of the economy, at least a sustainable, multi-legged, high added value economy. And I would like to stop here for a moment: the Hungarian economy, I think, is not arguing with that, stands on one foot, and we have been very, very vulnerable to the automotive industry. Government politicians are increasingly talking about the fact that, in the coming period, the global economy environment will not be as favourable as it has been in recent years. And if there is such an environment in the world economy, my fellow Members can be sure that people will not buy cars, and that Hungarian society will feel the vulnerability to the automotive industry and its dependence on it. Unfortunately, the government does not recognise the fact that our natural resources, values, ecosystem services are limited and that the government's actions to exploit our environment immediately lead to irreversible environmental changes in the short and long term. [[15.20]] In English: our present and our future are revived because of profit gain and irresponsibleness. Let's look at the main challenges. While we know that the adverse effects of climate change, even in terms of GDP, can lead to a reduction of at least 2 per cent per year, there is not even a line in the budget that would respond to this complex problem in terms of prevention and adaptation. However, by restoring soil fertility and water storage capacity, the proper choice of agricultural structure and applied technologies and varieties could indeed ensure that the country is provided with healthy, safe and affordable food. Apart from our government, they now know everywhere in the world that water is the oil of this century, because our President of the Republic talks a lot about the importance of it, but we do not see that the government would take it. There is nothing else here but that water cannot be replaced with anything else, a set of national strategic importance. But we do not see the government doing anything to promote rational, economical use of water, to protect our groundwater assets, to support water retention programmes on the surface. Its water management only extends to the law to satisfy the hunger of the agroligarchs in robbing our water resources. It is fortunate that at least this bad initiative has been vetoed by the Constitutional Court. In water utilities, the overall transport loss is often tens of percent, which could also be saved in clean drinking water and in water prices through an indeterminate and scheduled reconstruction. This budget also does not address the fact that nearly 90 percent of our rivers' ecological status belongs to one of the bad to moderate bad classifications, and similarly the ecological status of our natural habitats is characterised by a poor trend. It is out of the question that our forests are dying because of climate change and bad forestry policy, and if it continues, there will be no chance of resettlement. Allow me to make the small detour here so that we can hear quite often that our forest area has been doubled by the government. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it does not matter at all whether it is a forest or we are planting trees and what kind of trees it is. So alien wood species are not forests, nor trees planted side by side, and I would like to draw attention to that. However, we can also mention the government's shortcomings in improving environmental quality. However, it is important to know that Hungarians die years earlier in European comparison, they live much less in health, and that we have been ashamed of leading causes of death for years. According to research, 15-17 percent is related to pollution, and many, many human lives are lost to the individual, family and country. The government doesn't do anything, though in words, but in terms of protecting air purity and reducing noise. For this reason, this budget is based on a proven and harmful approach, and it undermines rather than promotes the well-being of Hungary. And, ladies and gentlemen, this budget is not good for the elderly either. We all know and feel that inflation has increased in recent months, rising from 2.8 to 3.9 percent in May. Despite the fact that the Hungarian National Bank is forecast to increase consumer prices by 3.1 percent next year, the government is still planning only 2.8 percent inflation in the budget and expects a corresponding increase in pensions. It is clear from this that the government is consciously underplanning inflation to use millions of pensioners' money for free until the pension correction at the end of the year. I think that's a big problem when 600,000 pensioners today have a pension below 100,000 forints. Thus, we see the government saving on pensioners, on those who are most affected by extreme weather conditions by the drastic increase in food prices. The government saves on pensioners, of whom 47,000 live on pensions below 50,000 forints, and I repeat: 600,000 are forced to live on pensions below 100,000 forints. Of course, a few thousand forints pension premium is a small consolation for pensioners, as economic growth would justify much more, especially when pensioners see wages rising by 10-12 percent over the years, i.e. between wages and pensions, the scissors will continue to open. I would like to note here that the government... and Minister Mihály Varga spoke yesterday about the importance of this pension premium, and he said that, yes, the economic growth thus benefits pensioners. The Minister did not say that the pension premium only comes if GDP has increased above 3.5 per cent, and if we look at it since 2010, this has not happened often. If we look at the prospects for the coming years, it can be easy, despite the government's plans for higher GDP growth, but then GDP growth will not reach 3.5 percent, so pensioners will definitely stay in business again. Nor do we see in the budget that the government has carried out a self-examination in the review of its faulty decisions to abolish the pension contribution ceiling in 2012, resulting in the emergence of millions and then two million pensions. There is a great distance between the minimum pension, the pension of HUF 28 500 and the pension of HUF 2 million! From this we can see that most of the pensioners are becoming poorer, that the retirement society is becoming more and more fragmented, and that inequalities are growing dramatically. The Hungarian state spends less than the EU average not only on pensions but also on elderly care. Over the last eight years, no new public seats have been created, and the funding of different forms of supply has not increased at all. We see that the government does not want to do anything to reduce, for example, the number of people waiting for some 27 thousand nursing homes, as there is still no record of new seats in the budget. As far as employment is concerned, the government prefers to boast about how low unemployment is. And the reality is that the normal functioning of the economy and society is already threatened by the great shortage of labour, not only by falling, but also by increasing unemployment in poorer counties. The planned expenditure of the National Employment Fund will be reduced next year, while we know that in 2018 the Fund took 62 billion forints more than it spent on all labour market programmes. This amount was a source of government spending at the end of the year for all other purposes. Therefore, the government did not realise that complex measures were needed in the field of employment to solve the problems. It is not enough to raise the minimum wage alone, with a strong emphasis on education, vocational education and training that prioritises local economic decisions. Mobility should definitely be promoted and the return of women with children to the labour market should be facilitated much more strongly. For these reasons, the LMP cannot support the draft budget submitted for 2020. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-06-20-80	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now it is possible to make two-minute comments. Attila Mesterházy applied for a comment. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-20-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to put a short question or problem to your attention, and this is a very specific, specific chapter of the health budget section. [[15.30]] This relates to public-funded dental care. I write a lot about this with the medical government. There seems to be a significant difference between public-funded dental care and domestic practices in terms of funding, and even these scissors are opening. Today there are about 300 of these empty practices. This makes it impossible for approximately a million people to have dental care in the district. Dentists say that they should double the amount that these dentists are now receiving in public-funded dental care in order to ensure the minimum conditions at all. The government keeps giving promises to people in the dental profession in this area, but nothing has ever happened, and even statements have been made in public that even resources are available. That is why it is incomprehensible to me why this increase is not integrated into the current budget. I would therefore ask, since, from what I see, there is no one on the Secretary of State for Health, and therefore, without a better one from any Secretary of State... [[Károly Panczél: Ask your question on Monday!]] Excuse me, Congressman? [[Károly Panczél: Ask your question on Monday.]] Press a button, and then we can argue with each other. It helps a lot, like you're yelling at me. I've listened to you with all due respect. Make sure you do the same, if you have anything to say. The debate is about you telling me, I'll tell you. I, for example, have waited for the opportunity to make a two-minute comment, as you do not. Mr. President, I'd like you to count the time of shouting for a few minutes, just a few seconds. In Hungarian, I would ask the State Secretarys who spoke first in the debate, because I see that it is free for them to comment during the debate and clarify the data, as the State Secretary just did in his speech. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I trust that they will do so now and will tell me why they are not doubling it, why they are not financing it so that public-funded dental care can receive what is due to it, and that 1 million people will finally have access to this service in an appropriate capacity. Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2019-06-20-82	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter.
u2019-06-20-83	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In the LMP, it is extremely important for us to support families and their sustainable support, and to reflect these forms of support on Hungarian reality. That is why we would like to propose to you, and we would very much like to ask you to support our proposals in this regard, so that we can finally give all the support to families instead of multi-enterprises and banks. I would also note here in parentheses during the budgetary debate that, for example, baby shower support has a very good, excellent, very objectionable point, that you are essentially giving money to the banks. They give profits to banks. It's completely unnecessary! Stand up for what they say in words. Unfortunately, this is not the way they act when you protect people against multinationals and banks. Then do so. These subsidies will be given directly to the families. We're also swordsmen. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is, unfortunately, little evidence of support for single - parent families in the budget. At the moment, there are 500,000 such families in Hungary. Sadly, by the age of nine, one child grows up in a single - parent family, lives in a single - parent family, and 70,000 fathers raise their children alone. We would like to draw attention to the fact that they should also receive all the support that large families receive, since only one parent here is responsible for all the tasks of raising children. We recommend that the family allowance be increased from HUF 13 700 to HUF 20,000 for these families. Greater emphasis should be placed on flask programs, so that the first children who are longing for can finally be born and that psychological assistance and preparation can be put in place to prevent divorces on the one hand and help families who are in difficulty on the other. We ask your support for this.
u2019-06-20-84	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Bányai.
u2019-06-20-85	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Fellow Members! I would like to speak to Erzsébet Schmuck, not to create a debate, but to reflect on one or two things he has said. He claimed that the government and our group did not take or understand sustainable development and the sustainable economy and the whole topic over-loved by LMP. He also said what forced economic growth or a budget that does not serve the economy will do to this nation or country. As I calculate, if the automotive industry, which we are supposed to serve with a full chest width, but we list the electronics industry here, we list the infocommunication industry, we can list other economic sectors here, if we take them out, because we are supposed to over-predominate these sectors, because we are over-attaching all of them, then we go back to the prehistoric era, and we should have an axe to the country's economy growth, not industries that require such knowledge. If we take these out of our economy, this will be a loss of thousands of billions of dollars, and in tax revenues, the government will bring about economic bankruptcy if it does not have tax revenue from these economic sectors. That is why I do not like to hear it, but I have to deal with the abuse of automotive and other investments in Hungary, which are, by the way, the industries that require the highest level of knowledge in Hungary today. Beyond that, water came to mind as the oil of this century. Please, there are water supply programs in different parts of the country, but it is also important to know that the irrigation programs are linked to this, that Hungarian farmers do not want to irrigate, because the Hungarian consumer cannot afford to pay for the expensive products, as the irrigation will make everything more expensive. She also claimed that there were trees and tree plantings, but I hadn't seen a LMP politician plant trees. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: I'll ask you, Congressman. Lajos Rig: We'll call you, Congressman.]] My fellow Member, Mr Font, and I planted 14,000 trees last year, so I welcome you in the group of tree planters, because believe me, we, members of the Fidesz fraction, also plant trees. In addition, I would like to tell Márta Demeter, who has left, that around 150 billion was the source that multinationals have received, and Hungarian SMEs have received 2,000 billion funding in the last year. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-20-86	Thank you, Congressman. We now return to the order of normal speeches. First I give the floor to Congressman Miklós Simon.
u2019-06-20-87	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, In the draft budget for 2020 ahead of us, as said in yesterday's ministerial expo, each priority area can have more resources than it did this year. Compared to 2010, support for families, with HUF 1293 billion, pensions with HUF 833 billion, salaries for public finances with HUF 1497 billion, and defence and police expenditure, and I would like to highlight this with respect, HUF 797 billion higher. Immigration in Europe remains one of the most important political issues. Migration is not an opportunity for us, but a cultural, economic and public security risk. Therefore, in next year's budget, we will again significantly increase the resources for public security, border protection and defence. The latter expenditure will increase more than twice next year compared to 2010. The government will spend more than HUF 840 billion on the wages of law enforcement and defence workers in 2020, which is some HUF 355 billion higher than it was in 2010. This represents an increase of more than 70 percent. The security of Europe requires that all nations pay much more attention to guaranteeing the security of their citizens. According to the Prime Minister, a strong Hungary cannot exist without a strong army. In line with this, the Government's promise is consistently implemented by the European Parliament and the Council in accordance with Article 3 (2) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). The government's budget for defence is constantly increased by 0.1 per cent of GDP per year to reach 2 per cent of GDP by 2024. [[15.40]] The defence budget, its planned increase and its effective use are important both for the federal system and for the sovereignty of our country. One of the winners of the 2020 budget is our hope that Hungary's security will be guaranteed at an ever higher level by the Hungarian Defence Office and through it the Hungarian citizens. The 2020 budget will be a budget for security and secure economic growth, as we hope. The HM chapter's total expenditure increases by HUF 103,3 billion compared to 2019, from HUF 512.8 billion to HUF 616.1 billion. This represents an increase of nearly 20 percent. We believe that the sooner defence spending reaches 2 percent of GDP, the safer our country will be. The government is determined to implement the programme of defence and force development in Zrínyi 2026. The most comprehensive and complex development of defence and military technology in recent decades, focusing on the soldier, can continue from the sources provided. The most important pillar of the powerful army is the well-prepared, dedicated personnel, which can be involved in strengthening the country's security, maintaining an ally's role and the planned increase. The HUF 103,3 billion increase spent on defence, compared to the previous year, makes it possible to achieve the planned developments. Armed forces are developing at an increasing pace in order to achieve higher standards of equipment and training conditions for soldiers as soon as possible. The care of the stock is undisturbed. The budget of the portfolio ensures that the conditions for the work of both active and voluntary reserve staff are further developed, and that young people who start their careers are motivated to choose the military profession. At the same time, the role of defence education and the participation of citizens in the protection of their country will be further enhanced. In 2020, a significant part of the expenditure, some HUF 216 billion, is already linked to the developments that have been undertaken in the framework of the programme of defence and force development in Zrínyi 2026. From this I would like to highlight some of the main elements below. During the development of the Air Force, Gripek will continue to be able to expand its capabilities, deployability and create the necessary conditions for direct air support for ground troops. In the context of the rotating wing capability, easy and medium-sized Airbus helicopter purchases take place. In the context of procurement for the development of an army on the ground, inter alia, the ability to engage in combat will be renewed. This is 12 Leopard 2 A4 training devices; 44 Leopard 2 A7 tanks; 3 special attack bridge sets; 5 special technical trucks. 24 PZH-2000 self-propelled artillery devices and hundreds of top-of-the-line armor-piercing devices are also purchased. With the implementation of the military development plan, the Hungarian military industry will also be reborn. In order to reduce the country's dependence and to reduce the security of the forces, Hungarian companies, which form the domestic defence industrial base, are increasingly involved in the implementation of the plans, which are linked to the production of weapons, the major repair and modernisation of military vehicles. In addition to security policy aspects, this has an economic and job-creating effect. Continue to maintain and expand the voluntary reserve system, support for the Defence Sports Alliance and civil society organisations, thereby strengthening social relations. To sum up, by implementing the 2020 budget, we want Hungary to grow further, and every Hungarian person to feel that in everyday life. I ask with respect that you support this proposal. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-20-88	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli.
u2019-06-20-89	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, On my count, this is the tenth budgetary debate that I have been participating in here, in this House, within the walls of Parliament, and for me last, but perhaps it gives me an opportunity to sum up what has changed in the last nine years and what has not. In 2010, when I got into Parliament and Jobbik himself got into Parliament, the first meeting of the 2011 budget was in the fall when we participated in it, and one of my first speeches was a green, environmental criticism of the budget. There are a lot of things that have unfortunately not changed since then, the criticism has remained the same, but at that time, even those that we have been able to criticise, unfortunately, cannot be criticised today, because the institutions or institutions that we have criticised do not exist anymore. Such was the independent green authority and several other institutions for environmental protection, water and nature protection, which have since been melted, abolished and shredded by the government. So we cannot say that the situation has improved since 2010. At the time, we were concerned that the independent Green Ministry had ceased, and then we were reassured that it did not require an independent ministry, that within other ministries, it could also carry out its interest and task in the form of a State Secretary. This has been proven since then not to be the case, as the role of the environmental sector in the government has been significantly weakened; for the first time since 2010, in the form of a State Secretary of Agriculture or Agriculture Ministry, depending on just when the Ministry has been called in the last nine years, and, of course, staff positions have also become increasingly weak in the performance of this task, as agricultural interests, or not most often but very often, conflict with green interests. The current Secretary of State has tried to coordinate this several times, but unfortunately, this has not always been successful. It depended on who had more lobbying power, and unfortunately, most of the time, the green area was the loser of these battles. Thus, the independent green authority has ceased, and since then there have been a number of cases of pollution which show that there is a need for a strong, independent green authority again. We have said this since it was abolished, but unfortunately there is no indication that this sector, this area, would be strengthened, rather weakened. [[15.50]] But what can we expect from the government, whose head of government is such a left-wing issue, or I don't know what he called environmental protection, a necessary evil or even unnecessary evil, perhaps the correct term is to look at what the government has done in this area in recent years. And what do we expect when the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade says that the interests of the German automotive industry are more important than climate protection objectives? And, of course, what do we expect when Hungary also vetoes the European Union's climate protection targets on the EU scene? We can see all of this at home, and although, through the President of the Republic, in communication, they stand very well in favour of climate protection objectives, including drinking water and water targets worldwide, only until a more serious step is taken in these matters at home as long as they do the opposite at home, these words are less credible, no matter how much the President of the Republic repeats them. In practice, on the home scene, preparing for climate change and preparing for the effects of climate change are at such a high level that, as we are increasingly experiencing the consequences of this on our own skin, there are tangible signs that we cannot do anything about, for example, the massive rainfall that is falling suddenly, the distribution of which is increasingly extreme. Once again, the media was covered in the big rainstorm yesterday or the day before yesterday by pictures of a subway in Szolnok where the cars disappeared underwater. I don't know from East Asia how we could see in the television broadcasts that the water was carrying cars, but it wasn't the usual thing to do here. Unfortunately, as we get into climate change more and more, weather and precipitation are becoming more extreme, unfortunately we have to take that into account. Compared to this, we do not see significant amounts of preparation, either for water management or for the improvement of precipitation water drainage, as this is expected to result in increasing volumes falling over ever smaller periods of time, and then it may be a drought period for long weeks or months. Compared to this, we build as many areas as possible, cover them, concrete them, from which, of course, we have to lead the precipitation water somewhere, because if we don't drive it, it stops in the underpasses, for example. Of course, it also has a significant impact on agriculture. To increase the proportion of irrigated areas is very good, but the infrastructure background is not very specific. This should be developed to a significant extent, since it is also due to the extremes of precipitation distribution that what falls from water and precipitation water should be stored as much as possible in order to be then irrigated through different channels. It's called water retention. The focus should be not only on drainage but also on water retention. Perhaps, since I am a Member of Parliament, I have been saying this for nine years, we have had various programmes before the Parliament on river regulation, for example. Unfortunately, the currentity of these is increasing, and the longer we wait, the more urgent it will be. There's a lot more to talk about under the heading of environmental protection. Energy efficiency: if anything, this is a very, very urgent and important task to make the most of our electricity and heat needs by investing in energy efficiency. Of course, this means not only sealing our buildings and allowing as many Hungarian families as possible to do so, but also helping them to replace the central electricity demand with local solutions, i.e. solar panels or other solutions. Because it is obvious that this is taking the burden off the large central power plants, which are growing old and disappearing. Right, Paks II. It will be realized, it won't happen, but the 2400 megawatts are not enough, sweet cheer for what is needed, there will be about 8-10 thousand megawatts of capacity shortages in Hungary in a few decades due to the ageing of power plants. Energy efficiency and renewable energy sources should therefore be given much more attention to this budget. Maybe it's air pollution that's critical, and the waste area that we need to talk about. After all, Hungary is in a very bad situation with regard to particulate pollution, dust and small particles. The smog situation is also common in large cities, but also in smaller villages, where solid-fired local combustion plants and stoves lead to a more frequent critical situation. Moreover, because of climate change, atmospheric conditions are such that they are even more likely to pose a greater threat to the people living in the area, and obviously because in many places people no longer have the money for normal fuel and are firing their garbage, which makes air quality even worse. In terms of air pollution, therefore, there would be significant tasks in both cities and small settlements. Even though a few hundred or even thousands of students protest on Fridays, young people here in front of Parliament's building, their voice does not seem to be heard in Parliament's building, since so far the initiative to declare a climate crisis in Hungary has failed. Many people are still smiling at why it would be an emergency, but we are seeing signs more and more of this, and it is better to be afraid than to be afraid that we otherwise supported the LMP's initiative to include this debate at all. Unfortunately, you, pro-government Members, have not supported it, but, given the importance of the subject, I do believe that all the proposals on this issue should come before the House and that there should be a substantive debate on it. This is where it goes down, because the debate here today, unfortunately, in Parliament, is becoming more hopeless, because answers, meaningful and professional answers to these questions can only be received by mistake, but obviously hope dies last. I would like to conclude with what I started by taking part in ten budgets, ten central budgets, and about my first and last speech raised the same problems and shortcomings, but since then the situation has become even worse, the environment has become even less important for the ever-regulating Orbán government. This needs to be given much, much more attention in the future, because not only because, of course, our children and grandchildren are able to live safely in a healthy and normal climate country, but also because, of course, you understand this language better, it is a concrete, tangible economic loss not only in terms of damage events, extreme weather, but also in tourism as an important economic sector, such as what happens with Balaton or can happen in the context of climate change. It's one of our largest national incomes and one of our greatest natural treasures. When you are busy breaking up research institutes, let us not forget that the Balaton Limnological Research Institute is one of the significant values of this country, its scientific value, which allows the ecological state of Lake Balaton to be the same as that of tourism in addition to its excellent water quality, but in addition to maintaining the natural environment, the natural fish species can grow again, the vegetation showing a living ecosystem, a living lake. In the meantime, of course, the unconventional construction on the beach, the destruction of the beach, the destruction of the reeds, the destruction of the shore and the water in various ways. This must be stopped, and this is true not only for Lake Balaton, but also for all our living waters, waterfronts and entire ecosystems in Hungary, it must be protected much more, and this budget is not suitable for this. Of course, not only for this, but also for many other things, but the faction of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary will not support this budget. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-20-90	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Charles Panczél.
u2019-06-20-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Since 2010, the Government of Hungary has not allowed the idea of the Fundamental Law, which, I quote:. We preserve the spiritual and spiritual unity of our nation, which has been divided into parts during the storms of the last century. I can also quote to you the article D of the new Hungarian Fundamental Law, in which Hungary takes responsibility for Hungarian citizenship beyond the border. [[16.00]] In the course of our parliamentary work, so in the budgetary debate, we must not forget that we can work in a Parliament, the composition of which is open to our fellow nations from across borders since the 2014 election, because we have also granted voting rights to those who are Hungarian citizens, but who do not have permanent residence in Hungary, as part of a new electoral law. The draft law on the 2020 budget also contains a number of chapters that provide financial comfort for our renewed national policy goals in 2010, not drawing funds from the most important areas. The draft budget for next year also shows a strong, economically stable mother country, which the Hungarians across the border can count on. On the basis of a review of the national policy headings of the 2020 budget, it can be said that the overall objectives so far can continue to be taken into account by the previous year's grants and that, in some areas, the budget plans with higher expenditure compared to the 2019 figures. What these goals are, I would like to highlight one or two of them. Religion was also a preservation force for Hungarians in the darkest periods of history. The Prime Minister's Office continues to support the ecclesiastical people serving abroad, the development of religious institutions across the border, and the religious activities of Hungarians living in foreign and diaspora. These three target areas have a total budget of HUF 1 billion of HUF 220 million. Another goal is the protection and restoration of the Hungarian built heritage, which is an important task and heart of the Government of Hungary. A good example of this is the renovation of the Rákóczi Castle in the Borsi settlement. ANNEX II The complete restoration of Ferenc Rákóczi's birthplace is expected to be completed by 2020. Next year's budget allocated HUF 250 million in addition to previous grants for this purpose. Unfortunately, our relationship with Ukraine has not been clear in recent years, so the moral and financial support of the Hungarians living in Transcarpathia may now be more important than ever before. The Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county and Transcarpathian development project will increase from HUF 850 million to HUF 48 million this year. Such a large increase in subsidies is also to be welcomed because Transcarpathian Hungarians are one of the most vulnerable, most vulnerable groups of our people in Transcarpathia today. I guess I don't have to list the actions and attacks that hit the Hungarians in Ukraine from the language law to the bombings in Beregszás yesterday. In addition to the development in Transcarpathia, the Csángó-Hungarian cooperation programme will be highlighted among the national policy objectives of next year's budget. This spring, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade took over the management of Csángó cases, and from 1 April, former President Zsigmond Járai coordinates the cooperation as Prime Minister. By 2020 532 million forints were allocated to the education programme for children in Moldavian Csángó. Hopefully, we can continue to work together so far, expand the education network in Csángóföld, provide the necessary infrastructure and the pedagogical background. We also plan to build Hungarian houses in which they will develop a modern school, kindergarten and community space. A future plan is the introduction of Hungarian children's meals and the establishment of scholarships for young people studying in Hungarian secondary school, university and college. We are also preparing an amendment with which we would like to provide the economic recovery programme starting in Csángóföld with HUF 1.5 billion within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. The support of the Bethlen Gábor Fund is of particular importance for the Government of Hungary, which provides cover for the mutual understanding of Hungarian communities living here and beyond, to present the most important examples of national performance. The government also supports, through the Bethlen Gábor Fund Manager, the prosperity, material and spiritual growth, the preservation of his language and culture, and the multifaceted relationship with the mother country. In the draft budget for 2020, the resources of the Bethlen Gábor Fund will rise to HUF 38 billion and HUF 870 million next year, which was HUF 26 billion and HUF 675 million. The growth is also outstanding because the amount allocated to support the Rákóczi Association, which is HUF 1 billion 50 million, is added to the development of the Bethlen Gábor Fund. I would like to highlight the Rákóczi Alliance, as it has been a strategic partner of the government for several years to achieve the goals of national policy. The sacrifices of the Alliance are not required to be presented, the organization has been operating for thirty years, and now it has been doing exemplary work in the Carpathian Basin with some 490 local organizations, with a number of 24,000 members. In addition to financial assistance, he considers it important to support the education and culture of Hungarians living in minorities, and to strengthen Hungarian consciousness. I have to say very briefly that this week with very large support, 166 votes in favour, 5 votes in favour and 1 abstention, the Hungarian Parliament has accepted that next year will be the year of national solidarity, which is, on the one hand, a commemoration of the Trianon tragedy, and, on the other hand, the presentation of all that has happened to us in the last hundred years, because we have not simply survived this tragedy, and we are a strong nation, and all that has happened in culture, sport, arts, science, I think we must also present it to Europe and the world. And I think it is a very important goal not only to have commemorations, conferences, meetings, scientific conferences, exhibitions for presenting results in the Carpathian Basin, but also to take this to Western Europe, the Western European diaspora and several cities around the world, where Hungarian diaspora exists, and this exhibition, this presentation should not only be for Hungarians, but also for the Germans in Berlin, to speak to the Flemishs in Belgium, to the Canadians in Toronto, to show not only the Hungarian community there, but also to the Australians what happened to us in 1920, and to what results we achieved in spite of this. Dear House, Looking at the amounts to be spent on national policy, we can say with a calm heart that the relevant items of next year's budget will continue to serve the survival of Hungarians. On the draft budget law for 2020, we can say that we have a moderate, well-thought-out draft in our hands from a national political point of view. I would ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the bill, taking into account the aspects that I have highlighted. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-20-92	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Tamás Bellozó.
u2019-06-20-93	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, I would like to comment on the area of law enforcement and defence, and recommend our proposals and criticisms to the attention of the government and the pro-government majority, although this may be a bit utopian ambition from an opposition representative in 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the figures in the Ministry of Interior chapter, it is perfectly visible that the government is not taking seriously enough the crisis phenomena that the organisation has been producing for years now, but in the last one and a half to two years it is showing quite loud and strong, and this is seen from the fact that there is no real wage increase for personal benefits in the next year's budget. [[16.10]] Although Minister of Interior Sándor Pintér said at his annual hearing last week at the committee meeting that he would like additional increases in wages from next January, for example, because he can see that there is something to be done, this budget was submitted that day or after, but this budget does not actually contain such amounts. If we went back a few years, I think it would be unfair and it would be a shame to deny that with the new career model and the five-year, average, 50 percent wage increase that the government has made over the past period, at least the fire fighting has been done, and in the area of law enforcement, the benefits and salaries of a certain layer of law enforcement have been fixed, but this is clearly not true for the enforcement stock. We know that there are serious problems with the subordinate organs of the Ministry of Interior, the executive staff, not only from the news, when it turns out that in mass, five, ten, fifteen, twenty or hundreds of people are disarmed from the police, for example, we know not only that the national police commissioner literally acknowledges that in his speech leaked from a staff meeting he tells his colleagues that we are not, and now let us put it in quotes, we are stupid, we know and we see that there is trouble, but we do see that as a cure, that is the "Holding"! The national police commissioner gave a cry, practically admitting that he had no means to correct the salary of his colleagues, to improve the working conditions of his colleagues. With this perseverance, a lot of colleagues will probably not go far, or I'm sorry to put it this way, it will go far enough, at least from the board and Hungary for sure. So on the one hand, the average 50 percent wage increase was not the same, it was not by accident called the average 50 percent of the stock, and on the other hand, it is simply impossible to argue with it today, neither can you, and if I understand correctly, they are no longer trying to make a living out of the net HUF 130,000 or HUF 150,000 as a member of the professional stock. In particular, if a young or even young couple from the countryside, such as Szabolcs County, choose this profession, someone will try to model it for me, so that in Budapest, besides paying the rent, he can obtain practically what he can get from 130 thousand forints. This amount doesn't cover the price of a rent, and certainly not a rent, but they didn't eat or drink anything at the time, and, of course, the government's longing for a child or for a family, I think it's simply among the unimaginable utopias. Of course, this is not the case not only in Budapest, and nothing else shows it better, my honourable fellow Members, than that the face of police recruitment, the young man who tried to convince his contemporaries to join the police in various campaign videos, because it is a very good profession, and it is really worth it for everyone who is going to do this, well, this young man, if I remember correctly, has resigned from the police force in February this year and has left the country. Although he stopped commenting on the event, he added that he simply could not make a living on the salary he had received as a career officer for this work and for this service. Let's not forget, we are talking about people who, in principle, choose life-style to risk their lives and physical integrity at any time in order to protect their fellow countrymen, whether they give their lives for us. I think it's a shame to reward this with a net amount of 130-150 thousand forints in today's world. And that this is not all right, it has already been said from the mouths of government figures at another meeting of the Defence Committee, specifically from the mouths of the heads of the Ministry of Interior, who themselves have said so, they know that the 50 percent average wage increase in five years was a realized process, but by the time we got here by 2019, the market industry was simply on such a level that today it is no longer competitive either, which was a 50 percent increase in very low wages five years ago. It is also not so difficult to figure this out, to think about it, and I think my fellow Members know precisely that a net of 130-150 thousand forints can be earned slowly in Hungary at virtually any single professional worker's workplace, but it is certain that a little further west from us, a McDonald, sban can earn twice that, and this cannot be maintained. Nor can it be held because, by the way, the government itself, the state has always spent at least 2-3 million forints per person on training and equipment of a police officer in the current state, by which the colleagues so to speak. These funds are practically money thrown out of the window, and I say from a budgetary point of view beyond the human fates, because every single colleague who installs, completes the school, starts working, and leaves the body within a year or two, with enormous damage and financial damage to the entire country. Therefore, I think that we must take action in any way. The thing is, there's a vicious circle of internal affairs and law enforcement agencies themselves in terms of keeping stock. Because of the low wages, many do resign. That's what I said to the Minister at the committee meeting, not to mention it, this is just going to happen on its own, as it can be seen regularly in the media that police officers, police officers or even his decommissioned colleagues are simply unpacking from time to time and telling us what's going on. Even if they are hiding the data, even if the Minister of Interior is not willing to write down simple numbers to a Member of Parliament, how many people have actually broken the law, but this is not a problem nowadays, it just freaks out when 15-20 people come out at the same time, let's say, in Budapest, they always come out. The fact is, my fellow Members, that after such a wave of disarmament, the commanders have no choice but to order overtime. Although this overtime was extended last year by Parliament on the proposal of the Parliament's Defence and Police Committee, i.e. that overtime can be paid to employees in money, the law literally says that the employee, i.e. the law enforcement body, decides to ask for it in money or in freedom, the abuse has been discovered in recent years that it is either financial or I don't know what other reason, in the area of law enforcement, that this overtime is not paid in money a lot, otherwise it is also illegal. Here comes the second half of the vicious circle, ladies and gentlemen, because if they give up overtime in freedom and there are fewer people in the stock, they will have to spend even more overtime in order to be able to give up the service at all, and for example, it may occur that, for years now, there have been write-offs, not administrative officers and detectives forming part of the armed enforcement force, and everyone else will be on the street, so that there is no policeman at all to carry out public patrol, and then there will be more overtime and overtime. This is not going to work, obviously sooner or later the whole thing will come to its head, and the signs of this can, of course, already be seen in more bodies. The cry for help is constantly received, and you can see exactly how many people are leaving the board, compared to this, when I asked Mihály Varga here before submitting the budget on an immediate question of how to take meaningful steps in terms of wage increases, then, at the end of a clear misconception, he practically said an elegant no, and then supported by the bill that was submitted to Parliament. I don't know how to put this, I acknowledge, appreciate that Sándor Pintér will tell you at his annual hearing that he would like such a raise next January, but of what, fellow Members? If we have this draft budget law, and it doesn't cover it, then how would the Minister of the Interior want a wage increase next year or anyone else? I know you've been training a great reserve, and I know that in the year 1019 of our kingdom, it's going to be like the Prime Minister's whistling and then you're transferring money to the Ministry of the Interior, but believe me, this is not going to work, so it's not predictable and it's not a career. We've written a legislative amendment proposal, and I'd like to suggest to you that we try to get support for it, obviously with a little smile, but we'll try. The fact is that we are proposing the transfer of nearly HUF 100 billion to the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior, specifically for personal expenses. [[16.20]] This nearly a hundred billion forints would be divided into 12 billion for the military. The day before yesterday was the hearing of the Minister of Defence, who also said that although he does not see a very big problem with them as he may have said it almost literally in the home affairs area, they could use a salary correction sooner or later, and that is what they will try to do. With this money, they could move forward, and we would like to transfer nearly 90 billion to the bodies assigned to the Ministry of Interior, which can give us a substantial wage increase, up to 20-30 percent if the government would spend it differentiatedly. We would like to propose, and we would like to persuade the government not to raise wages on average and not on average to everyone, because I think that, let's say, a senior commissioner, a general category of himself, I suppose, with a gross salary of some 900 thousand, over 1 million or even 1 million, it would not be necessary to go through a massive increase, but perhaps for the executive staff on a net salary of 130-150 thousand HUF, this could be a serious help. We believe that this HUF 90 billion would indeed be sufficient to make a significant wage increase, even at a level below average wages, down here, in the executive staff. As I said, the police are constantly coming, sometimes smaller or more intensified, but in the current state of the process, it seems unstoppable. As always, prison execution, as a closed institutional system, brings out less news to the general public, but the colleagues working there, the trade union colleagues, regularly send out the aid signal, and they are not concerned about the state of the prisoners in the first place today, but about their own colleagues, for whom we are talking about 600 plus 900 hours of overtime a year in total, which is a specific violation of all laws and regulations in the European Union and in Hungary. They'll probably get them to sign some paperwork to volunteer for this, but their other option, as we know, would be to take their stuff and go home. This will be untenable, and the problem in this regard is much greater than any other organisation, I think. And here's the fire department, called disaster control, where in just the last few days or weeks, those, I can tell you, cry for help that we've run out of supplies. While everyone wanted to be a firefighter 10-15 years ago, they did not have any problem in Hungarian picking the best and most talented people among themselves, now they have reached the firefighters, and disaster protection has been the phenomenon that the police have been suffering from for almost two years now, so that they simply do not apply to law school for example. You can read great government propaganda news about all kinds of recruitment events, and you can see Secretary of State Károly Kontra photographed from the right and photographed from the left, these are very pretty pictures, but the fact is that the dog can't and doesn't want to go to the police anymore. And you know that, too, because the number of law enforcement high school applicants has fallen by 80 percent compared to 2010, and they can hardly replace basic fluctuations with this number. That's pretty much what's coming from the department of the National University of Public Service. Also informally, honourable Members, because this is also a number and data that the government, let us say, will not even write down as a member or vice-president of the Defence Committee. But it's a small country, we're talking about a small department, and we know that there are huge problems with the training of officers, and we're talking about it now, and that's because this law can change the fact that it won't bring this area to its head in the next few years. Today, of course, you can say that everything is all right, but you know that if the supply cannot be secured, then in a few years' time, we will not be able to train police officers, or even police officers or bvs, of course, in a month or two. So, we are proposing a differentiated wage increase, this differentiated wage increase is about having a noticeable wage increase for executive staff, colleagues who earn below average. This money isn't that big a deal. One of the important parts from which we propose to take away, but of course, we welcome or accept any improvements in the government's proposal, such as national information, I do not know what office, so we would take a modest HUF 50 billion from funding the wonderful productions of MTVA. But if I remember correctly, even with 25 billion of them, these great shows and these fantastic viewing broadcasts can still be seen on the various channels of Magyar TV and on Kossuth Radio. I think it's very difficult to get this quality work out of 25 billion forints. This could be roughly as much money as the annual budget of all the other players in the entire Hungarian media. I think there's a way out of this. But if you have a better idea, Mr. Secretary of State, whether from the budget reserve or from anywhere else you can take this money from, then don't let that go, but I ask you to admit that this is not going to work, and I ask you to be partners in making this wage increase possible. There was a psychological moment in the National Defence and Police Committee, where, among other things, the Committee, in the context of overtime, had submitted to Parliament a proposal of all parties, which Parliament, if I remember correctly, voted almost unanimously. I would be very happy for him, and I would be very proud of him if that could be one of those suggestions. I don't care if they rewrite it, if they take it into their name, just please acknowledge and accept the need to take action in this area, differentiated, and a substantial wage increase in the area of law enforcement should be made in order to maintain the executive staff. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2019-06-20-94	Thank you, Congressman. State Secretary Péter Benő Banai indicated that he wished to reply. You have the floor.
u2019-06-20-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In five points, I would like to respond very briefly to the suggestion of Mr Bellozó. Firstly, we are seeing it together, and I am pleased that Mr President recalled that an average 50 per cent wage increase has been made, and the Member said that market wages have also increased significantly, so there is a significant absorption effect. I think this is important because it has often been said from opposition benches and from the left that there is a wage crisis in Hungary today. Here I feel some contradiction in the fact that there is a wage crisis or a rise in wages in the competitive sector, and wage increases in the public sector often do not provide an advantage compared to the competition sector. In the second point, I would like to state that, compared to the payments mentioned by the Member, in the executive staff, if I quote correctly, the salaries are not 130 and 150 thousand forints. Let me give you two examples. The salary of a five-year officer with a service relationship is HUF 315 thousand in 2019, which is a net HUF 210,000. A deputy officer with a secondary education has a gross salary of HUF 330,000 with a 15-year service relationship, corresponding to a net salary of HUF 220,000. In case they don't have children. If they have children, this net income is higher by adding a family discount. So we are not talking about wages of 130-150 thousand forints, either on average levels, but about a salary of more than 200,000 forints in the event that those affected do not have children. The third thing I would like to say is that the Member drew attention to the fact that wage increases in the 2020 budget are not covered in the chapter of the Ministry of Interior. I have to say that a collection appropriation under the heading of the Ministry of Finance, which is HUF 152 billion, from which employees in the public sector can raise wages for employees in all budgetary bodies, is included in the chapter of the Ministry of Finance. The government has not decided on this specific division, which may affect a wide range of layers, but there is a framework of principle from which the government can make a further wage increase in these areas, if decided by the government. The fourth thing I would like to mention goes beyond the wage increase for law enforcement employees. The congressman mentioned how much rent costs. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, as appropriate, law enforcement, defence workers, all public sector workers, all Hungarian residents are open to opportunities related to home creation or childbearing. [[16.30]] So if a patrolman from Szabolcs moves to Budapest, has a housing problem, decides to buy a new apartment, wants to build a new house, is also available for the family home creation discount, or if he chooses to have children, for example, baby shower support can help solve housing problems. The last point I have to mention is that the proposal that the Member has referred to as a reduction in the support of the media, in the form of a simple amendment, is no longer eligible from a legal point of view, since a separate two-thirds law sets out the amount to be planned by the government to support the public media in the draft budget law, i.e. it is certain that the financial coverage of the proposals made by each Member should be legally paid elsewhere. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-20-96	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I now give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Becsó.
u2019-06-20-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The country's economic performance has made it possible for all priority areas in the 2020 budget, all important priorities, to have more resources than this year. One of our most important tasks is to achieve our goal of making Hungary a family-friendly place. The budget presented is clearly focused on the implementation of the family protection action plan, but the maintenance, protection of economic results, consistent economic policy enforcement or economic expansion above the EU average will also receive particular attention. In many cases, due to its unusual but in any case effective economic policy, the Hungarian economy has taken a long-term growth path, the internal growth engines are stable, employment is growing, unemployment is falling, wages are rising, household incomes are improving. What is particularly important is that the positive processes are not only true to Budapest or the very strong rural development poles, but also to progress in less-favoured areas. Of course, there is a difference between development and development, because there are some where there is above average, some where there is average, some where progress is below average, but it is indisputable and also joyful that there is almost no corner of the country where any development, investment, or action that has a positive impact on living conditions would not have been realised. This is how we are in Nógrád County, East Nógrád, and so we would like to be even more in Salgótarján. Dear House, At least four items appearing as important items in the submitted budget can be listed from the economic development side, which, in addition to a consistent fiscal policy, will help maintain the growth potential of the Hungarian economy and contribute to the development of our region and to the development of better living conditions. In the life of cities with county rights, such as Salgótarján, the programme "Modern Cities" was launched in 2015. The agreements concluded by the Prime Minister and the Mayors were aimed at making these proud cities the XXI. The winners of the century should be flagships for the development of the Hungarian countryside. With this program, they wanted to create the possibility of building Hungarian cities where residents like to live, settling their lives according to their own needs, and their city supports and supports them. The programme with 23 rural development centres requires a total of HUF 3800 billion in development resources. This includes nearly 260 projects, and so far some HUF 1400 billion has been used by cities with county rights. It is clear from the budget that the programme to modernise rural metropolitan areas and to strengthen their competitiveness, to increase their cultural attractiveness and to underpin the improvement of the living standards of people living in rural areas continues. This is also a key issue in the case of Salgótarján, as the catching up of the city, the reduction of the lag compared to more developed regions, the creation of a living and lovable living space cannot be envisaged without the government's strong support. He is pleased that, despite the different political positions, the city's development concept and the government's modernisation ideas have been brought into line with many important points, but every agreement is worth as much as it is implemented. The ideas of Salgótarján, some of which must be rethinked, could also be implemented more smoothly, but it is an important moment that future implementation may not be affected primarily by budgetary reasons. As a result, the foundation stone of the new oncology center is being laid, the main parish is being renovated, and we will soon complete the four-banding of Route 21. Other projects included in the agreement or the launch of new projects better suited to the current challenges could be given greater impetus after October. In order to strengthen the attractiveness of the countryside, to reduce territorial disparities and improve the quality of life of people living in small settlements, the Hungarian village programme is of paramount importance. The renovation of the village CSOK, service apartment, kindergarten development, kindergarten development, kindergarten yard and kindergarten sports, medical practice and equipment, mayor's office, sports parks, pavement renovation, cemetery development, maintenance of public areas, village bus, local and religious community spaces and identity strengthening programs and road constructions provide a budget of HUF 150 billion for small settlements such as the 44 small settlements of East-Nógrád and the inhabitants. One of the main pillars of the programme is the renovation of roads and transport facilities linking lower settlements. Let us be honest with you that much more funds would be needed, because the accessibility of small settlements below 5 000 people would be improved. An example of this from our region is the Ecseg and Csecsé connection road or the road section between Palotás and Kisbágyon, the section between the county border and Hehalom or the road to Rákóczibánya, but we have progressed step by step since 2010, and we can continue the road development programme in the future. Even before the launch of the, parallel and even next year, of the modern cities and the Hungarian village programmes, there must be a good rhythm in which the available EU funds are drawn up, in order to create a competitive economic structure on the one hand and support local community initiatives on the other. It was an important decision for urban development that the government decentralised significant amounts in the 2014-2020 planning period in order to achieve the regional development objectives of the county towns on the one hand and the counties on the other. The county of Nógrád and Salgótarján were the winner of this allocation, since they received the highest specific amount from the operational programme of territorial and territorial development, although we would have preferred to switch places from the development side with Győr-Moson-Sopron County and the city of Győr. Obviously, this is not possible, but it is possible to use 100% of resources and, with the government's agreement, to commit more than 100 per cent in order to meet financial and performance indicators. This means further development opportunities in Nógrád and in the areas of tourism, precipitation water drainage or the creation of new crèches. The fourth major item, which will help our region catch up, speed up development, is the continuation of large infrastructure projects. In 2020, as well, major subsidies for road, rail, urban transport, utility infrastructure and flood protection projects can be implemented at several hundred billion forints in the country, also at county level. In the county of Nógrád, several settlements, including Bátonyterenye and the city of Salgótarján, are taking place with sewage treatment and reconstruction on road 2 and 21, and the process of developing the Pásztó-Usenó expansor can begin. [[16.40]] Dear Parliament, The county of Nógrád is a county with great talents, whose citizens can be proud with a calm heart of the successes of the centuries behind us, the natural environment, the palóc folk costume, Hollókő or our national shrine, Szentkút. But we also want to be proud of our present, of living in a county that is home and not a place of residence for citizens. Much remains to be done, but the direction is good, and this budget is the basis for making progress on the road we have started. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-20-98	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Péter Ungár.
u2019-06-20-99	Thank you for the floor. First of all, as my colleague Erzsébet Schmuck said, there was a debate here about the fact that the LMP fraction (a) if I understand correctly does not plant a sufficient number of trees, (b) there is nothing wrong with the automotive industry, everything is fine. I'd respond to that for a few thoughts. Firstly, the automotive industry is certainly not okay with the fact that it has already been recognised by the government and, in the context of the budget, it has been said that a reserve has to be created, because after the global economic economy, it is likely that a global economic downturn will follow and the times will come. At a time like this, the first thing a family doesn't buy when they lose their salary is the car. The automotive industry is the most vulnerable to global economic trends, and therefore the areas and cities that are almost uniquely attached to the car industry will be in a huge problem if a world economic slowdown comes and fewer cars are bought. So, from this point of view, the car industry is definitely not okay. Not even from the point of view that the car industry is basically one of the biggest emitters of greenhouse gases that cause climate change, and I think my fellow Member thinks that we should also leave his grandchildren and grandchildren a land where they will be happy to raise their children; although I believe that I have said eight generations in one, although that was not my intention. I go further: in connection with the planting of trees, this is not necessarily a good idea for the political community that has destroyed more trees in the territory of Budapest than the previous ones. The thing is, if I'm just thinking about the Liget project or the Orczy Garden or the trees cut down at the renovation of the National University of Public Service, these aren't necessarily good things. And if we cut down a tree, we plant another tree by the time that tree's big, and it can release as much oxygen as an older tree we cut out, that's a long time. I would like to draw your attention to this biological equation. But then I'd like to get to the essential parts of the budget. I would like to talk about things that are not necessarily a large amount of money, but show who matters to the government or who doesn't matter in the area of the budget. One of the biggest problems, and I have tabled a budget amendment in this regard, is that it is not separate, and it has not been, and I am glad that the State Secretary of the EMMI is here, and perhaps he can reflect on this, what I am saying here, there is no specific resource for youth psychiatrists in the budget. This is a very serious problem because in the youth age group, which is between 12 and 17 years old, one in ten children can be diagnosed with mental illness. People's diseases are ADHD, i.e. hyperactivity, attention disorder, depression and, unfortunately, addiction. The fact is that this is also very important, if you look at it very heartlessly, to pay special attention to it and to devote budgetary resources to it, to treat these mental illnesses already in this age group, because if we spend this money on it, then they will pay taxes, not our tax dollars, to treat their increasingly serious condition as adults. Suicide is the second leading death in Europe in the 15-24 age group. Suicide is the sad outcome of a lot of mental illness, so we must do everything to ensure that these do not happen, and this can be done by creating a youth psychiatric centre. This is important because the disease of most mental diseases is of a special nature between the ages of 12 and 17 years of age, so those special diseases between the ages of 12 and 17 can be treated most effectively in a special institution based on special supervision, there is a professional consensus in this. And in order not to upset the balance of the Hungarian budget, there is the Hungarian Institute for Research, which was also founded by the EMMI, and I quote that, by researching our past, we will establish the future, and that is so, by researching our past, we will base the future, but the people who are going to give us our future, who are now young, however, it is very important for those who have somewhere to go in terms of their mental and health. And with the exact amount of money we're going to spend on the Hungarian Institute of Research, a youth psychiatric center would come out perfectly. I shouldn't even take it from there, I just compared the amount of money. So I hope that the EMMI will consider this amendment and that there will be a youth psychiatric centre in Hungary. That's one of them. The other one, which is a... [[The sound system's shutting down.]]
u2019-06-20-100	Congressman, you've lost your voice.
u2019-06-20-101	Why did that happen?
u2019-06-20-102	I don't know. Would you like to see
u2019-06-20-103	Is it okay now? [[The sound's working.]] Thank you very much. So, the other, which, on the other hand, is completely humiliatingly low, and I simply can't understand why the budget support of the Aphazia Association hasn't increased in years, so it hasn't even increased by the rate of inflation. This is also an association that carries out a state task. Aphasia, after a stroke, is a disorder in the speech center, which means that you feel that inside you can speak, but you can't shape the words. This is one of the most common consequences of a stroke. The fact is that the TB currently provides about 3-4 opportunities for logistics, so the TB supports you, and here you have to have several logopheia cases over the course of six months and years, which is provided by the Aphasia Association and music therapy and so on. They have 9 million forints, it's a ridiculously low sum for this task they're doing. In the beginning, their headquarters are because one of the municipalities gave them such a center. I believe that this would be significantly increased, that the Hungarian budget would not be decided, and that it is also a very important thing. Again, this association is carrying out a state task and a state task that no one else is doing in Hungary today. I'd like to get back to you, a little connected to the former youth psychiatry. There is also an amendment that affects the budget: from 16 to 12 years they have taken down how to get into the adult and passionate patients, i.e. the rehabilitation centre, in Hungarian. Now, this also shows what I was just talking about, that addiction is affecting younger and younger people in an increasing proportion. This is also the reaction of the EMMI with this amendment. The thing is, it's not necessarily good. We don't say we need a separate institution if, say, a addict is between the ages of 12 and 16, but at least we need a separate department. It is not good for their recovery to be together with adults and sufferers, because they do not necessarily see good behavioral patterns. That's why they need a separate department, and once again, for this, for the youth treatment of addiction, they need a separate source from the EMMI. Hopefully, the amendment to this will be accepted, and this will also be amended. What is one of the most serious problems in this budget, and there is also a proposal to amend it, is the disorder of the social pay table. The negotiations are ongoing between representatives of the social sector, trade union representatives and the EMMI. We don't know exactly what the outcome is yet. How do I put this? The dialogue, it may be a euphemism, but we have been doing something with Mr Rétvári State Secretary in this room several times, he has always said that there is nothing to see here, and social workers are well-earned in Hungary, and besides, Ferenc Gyurcsány and György Soros. On the other hand, there are currently very few social workers who earn over HUF 200,000 net. These are usually people who have 2-3 children and are therefore able to benefit from tax relief, and after several years of work, so no matter how many years they spend at work, they cannot actually make a decent living from the wages that this sector provides them. Yet this sector will be increasingly needed because of the ageing Hungarian society. This, too, is that this sector is increasingly needed, Mihály Varga said it himself in his budget expo. [[16.50]] Yet, people who deal with this ageing or its consequences will not be honoured in the form of wages in Hungary. Again, this is a specific payment paper from a specific, existing social worker who earns 187 460 forints net after more than ten years of working time, and this includes a weekend allowance and a bonus for working on holiday. Without this, the net wage of this social worker would be around HUF 160,000, whose manifesto payment card is here. [[He's presenting the document.]] So it's probably not lying. In addition, according to KSH, what I think they do not question, the average wage of social workers is HUF 270 thousand, which is very little. We'd like to change that in the budget. A budget is about what we think is important, who the government considers important, what it considers important. Apparently, he does not consider caring work to be important, nor does he give sufficient financial respect to those who work at home, nor to those who do so in institutions. By the way, I also assume that if the Secretary of State responds, he will say that wages in this sector have increased by 40 percent during the year. It is possible that this is true, because the situation is that these have increased because of the increase in the guaranteed minimum wage. There is a huge wage tension in a social institution because a nurse with a professional degree who is under extreme psychological stress and physical stress earns less or almost as much as the driver of that institution. I don't want to feel sorry for the driver for this money, I'm just saying that a social worker, who in 0-24 has a lot of mental burden on people in his final days, does have to earn more, does have to earn enough to make a decent living out of it. In this sector there is one of the largest migrations, and in this sector, especially in Western Hungary, it is increasingly difficult to fill the legal framework in the social sector. In this respect, the LMP fraction also submitted a budget adjustment. I am ever less confident, but I am confident that the majority of governments will accept this and that we will finally be able to raise the wages of social workers. Moreover, the wages of social workers would also not create a serious budgetary problem, which could basically be resolved under 200 billion. I don't want to go into a populist contest about how to take this money, but I trust everyone's fantasy of which line social workers are worth more. In fact, I think we could establish this collectively, on the basis of dialogue. The thing is, there's still a big problem with the pay sign that it's partly raised on the basis of allowances when it's raised. It's a vulnerable thing, because it's different every year. It also causes wage tension that a social worker is just an example, so it is difficult to know in such detail, who earns less after more years of work than who has less work experience, because in that specific budget a different allowance has been set. So, overall, it is a bad one that causes a lot of wage tension, and this is the real, biggest problem, especially, that social workers in Hungary have very low wages. What must be added in any way, and this is another part of the wage tension, that it is not necessarily justified, and in many European countries it is not so, that the social, educator and health pay tables are separate. They don't necessarily have to be treated separately. There are a lot of border areas. In fact, a significant part of the social sector, elderly care, which is one of the most specific parts of it, is actually a border area with health care, because nurses do a lot of activities that, if Mr. State Secretary comes with me to visit an institution, they say that they do a lot of similar work. I know that the government for those who receive the same wages as the health sector... there was one of these, this applies to about 4,000 people, so 12-13 thousand people are out of it. Moreover, I do not understand, so I would be happy if Mr Secretary of State could shed light on why the three pay tables are not unified on the basis of qualifications. So if you have to get the same degree many times, or a very similar one, let's say, a social worker with a college degree or a degree can't get as much as a graduate or a professional, health-care pay-card worker? So I think it's a very important question. I'm telling you, in a number of neighbouring countries, for example, this is resolved by treating the whole three in one. I'll give you a specific example to make it more plastic. It's hard to get a developmental educator in the living room of mentally disabled people, because there you'd get a salary based on the social wage bill. In a special school for children with SNI, let's say it's designed, there's the teacher's rent table where this educator gets his wages. Therefore, it is much more difficult to obtain an education in the ENO because even within the sectors there is a wage tension and it also absorbs it. Plus, the pedagogical allowance is ridiculously low, and I could really raise that. In these three, the holistically uniform state care in many border areas could really be treated separately. What I think is very important and missed the budget is the wages of the cultural community. I don't know why, that would be a very low amount of money in the budget, but right now, museologists and librarians are very underpaid, with a net wage of about 145 thousand forints. These people are doing very important work in terms of the fact that if we are talking about preserving their national identity for future generations, then people who show national history, let us say, either in urban historical, local historical places or in other ways, we also value it by paying. Cultural public employment is not important to Fidesz because it is not a well-organized sector. We've never seen a librarian strike before, so they probably don't feel the pressure to raise their wages. This is wrong, but I have heard many such personal stories about these people, that they went to work on a production line rather than to stay in the cultural sector, wages are so humiliatingly low. Plus, what I don't know, and if there's any information from the Secretary of State sitting here, of which, I'm guessing, two from the EMMI... [[For signal:]] No, one, I'm sorry then, just one. So I'm asking the Secretary of State of the EMMI that the Secretary of State for Culture announced at the beginning of the year that there would be a career, and then there wasn't a single word about it. Then they announced that there would be a career, but only in the PIM, so only in the Petőfi Literary Museum will there be a career, but now we don't even know if it will be there, or if it will be there, why it won't be there, why it won't be related to the early announcement of the year everywhere, and when they will finally inform the representative. If they could respond to that, it would be wonderful. I don't think it's necessarily a party policy issue to settle this, but these people really deserve to have a career model in the same way. About this career model, so much so that the union, on the other hand, criticized it, that is your job, but that at least some wage increase should be in terms of the career model. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-20-104	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the KDNP Group will hand over the remaining timeframe for today's meeting to the Fidesz Group. [[Péter Ungár: I thought it was us!]] And now it's possible to make a two-minute comment. I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy.
u2019-06-20-105	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I wanted to add a few sentences to what Tamás Harangozó also spoke about, and Mr Secretary of State also mentioned it. He said that the salaries were much higher than my fellow Member said in the previous comment. You said it could be 200-220 thousand forints net. I also have a number of e-mails about the fact that this net wage of 130-150 thousand forints is not unprecedented among law enforcement workers or even civil servants. [[17.00]] Therefore, as you said after a 15-year service relationship, the salary you mentioned was a fairly decent and long service trip. He told me about the apartment, that the person who moved here from Szabolcs should buy himself an apartment; he didn't say so, but that was the point. Some people don't want to buy apartments. They just live in apartments. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I think that many people here have missed funding from the budget, which would apply, for example, to apartments, because rent prices can, of course, be frozen from one side, as they are trying to do in Berlin, from the other side, so that it cannot be played out, or that it can be managed by expanding supply. Probably, of course, housing problems can also be helped by what you mentioned or by winning the lottery by these people. I have also tabled an amendment on the fact that the civil servant's salary fund, which has not changed for ten years, should change, and I am indeed explaining it, and I think Tamás Harangozó was right in this regard that the number of disarmaments is massive, and so many policemen, firefighters or people working in prison are forced to leave their careers, which he may treat as a profession. Therefore, once again, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to consider, in the course of government decisions, that these people's civil servants' salary be increased from the current rate. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-06-20-106	Thank you very much, Congressman Mesterházy. I salute the secretary of state and the secretary of state, my fellow Members. I'll give the floor to Congressman Gábor Bányai in two minutes, Fidesz.
u2019-06-20-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Congressman Tamás Bellozó is not here, but Attila Mesterházy quoted his spirit. In his comments, the number of students in law enforcement schools has decreased by 80 percent since 2010. I called to the pleasure of this right now, as this rude number was said, the head of the training centre in Kiskunhalas, and I was told that so many have not yet applied to law schools in vocational training centres, and this has been the case in the previous year. So this figure, this imaginary 80 percent decrease, I think, is based on bad information, and I would ask you to record for the record that there are a lot more people coming into these schools than ever. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-20-108	Thank you very much, Congressman Gábor Bányai. I give the floor to Congressman Charles Becsó, Fidesz.
u2019-06-20-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Justice is an independent, independent branch of power, this principle has already been emphasized by Aristotle and Cicero in his works. One of the pledges of independence of judges is that they are not financially and existentially vulnerable. As before, this requirement is met by the budget before us, which provides the necessary funds to cover the expenditure of ordinary courts under a separate chapter. In addition to the courts, it is also appropriate to highlight the other main contributor to the judiciary, the prosecutor's office, which cannot be regarded as an independent branch of power, but, as provided for in the Fundamental Law, is an independent and independent constitutional institution. A guarantee of independence is also a budgetary provision in separate chapters for the prosecutor's office. Ladies and gentlemen, The budget affects the courts and prosecutors in two places. On the one hand, as separate constitutional bodies, a separate budget heading defines the annual budget of the judiciary arm and on the other hand, the current budget law defines the basis for the calculation of the remuneration of judges and prosecutors. With regard to the separate budget chapters, it is important to emphasise that the 2011 CLXI on the organisation and administration of the courts. Law 76. § 3 (a) of the Act and CLXIII of 2011 on Public Prosecutors' Offices Act No. 6 The President of the OBH or the Attorney General shall draw up his proposal for a separate budget chapter, which the Government shall submit to Parliament without change. On the basis of the above, the chapter of the ordinary courts of the proposal contains a budget proposal drawn up by the President of the OBH, which also takes into account the reform of judicial salaries initiated by the President of the OBH. Accordingly, the proposal calculates a surplus of HUF 23.3 billion in personal benefits calculated in conjunction with employer contributions compared to this year's budget. It should be noted, however, that no decision has been taken by the Government on the possible reform of the judicial salary system, so the proposal sets out the amount of the judicial and prosecutorial salary base at HUF 453 330 in the same way as in 2019. Changing the salary base is always the result of a political decision taken in the light of the country's economic potential, which is decided by the Parliament to present the government. Accordingly, the annual automatic increase was not typical in the last 20 years, the major modification of the salary base was established in 2004, 2005, 2008 and 2012, otherwise in 2012, worth 391 600 HUF. In 2016, the Government decided to increase the amount of the unchanged judicial salary in a total of three steps in line with the guiding principles described above. Accordingly, three times from October 2016 onwards, on occasion, the judicial salary base was increased by 5 per cent, which was built on each other, resulting in a 16,5 per cent increase in the judicial and prosecutor's salary for the period from 1 October 2016 to 1 January 2018. Following the increase, since 1 January 2018, as I mentioned earlier, the stipend is HUF 453 330. On the basis of the adoption of the bill submitted to the Parliament by the Government, the salary of judicial and prosecutorial staff increased by 30 percent from 1 September 2017 until 1 January 2017, which reported a noticeable increase in income to about 9 thousand judicial and 2 thousand prosecutorial staff. A comprehensive reform of the judicial salary system may be made by an appropriate amendment to the law on the status and remuneration of judges. At the same time, Parliament has not yet put an amendment to the law on its agenda. By observing the statistics, it can be concluded that budgetary support from courts and prosecutors is constantly increasing. Compared to 2014, in 2019 the courts were able to manage 44 percent and 35 percent more budget resources by the prosecutors. One of the foundations for the increase was the increase in the salary of the three stages, which, together with the reform of the salary system of the judicial and prosecutorial staff in 2017, represented a substantial increase of more than 16,000 people. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to settling the wage situation, the courts have used additional resources to improve the development induced by legislative changes and to continuously improve working conditions. As a result, the National Court Office has been able to launch a number of projects under which the development and modernisation of judicial infrastructure has taken place. The property is located in 113 cities with 185 properties. Of these, 153 buildings actually serve case-law purposes. Technical maintenance, maintenance, renovation of real estate and partly of the employees of the court organisation XXI. To ensure the working conditions of the 20th century, which serve the quality of the case, as well as the establishment of buildings meeting the needs of a court-friendly court, the creation of material conditions for access to the court is a priority task. By providing budget resources, the National Court of Justice Office has started major reconstruction and construction projects since its establishment in 2012, after assessing the state of the country's courts, what is the most urgent task. The renovation project announced in 2013 and the 2015 investment plan was followed by the so-called "Wagner Gyula" programme and the so-called Jablonszky Ferenc tender scheme. According to the pre-approved investment plan, among the improvements planned in the Wagner Gyula programme on the basis of needs assessments, the simpler works are carried out by court organisations, the more complex, multi-annual developments are carried out by the OBH as their own investment. In the Jablonszky Ferenc application system, the OBH provides a tender source for the achievement of centrally defined goals and building developments. In addition, EU funds are available for the energy modernisation of judicial buildings. [[17.10]] It is worth mentioning the priority investments in recent years, from which the Curia: the renovation of the former Curia building has begun here in Kossuth Square. The new building of the departments of the Budapest Surroundings Tribunal has begun. The Egri Tribunal has been fully renovated and extended. The Court of Szeged, the District Court of Szeged and the full renovation of the Gödöllő District Court are ongoing, as well as the preparation of the construction of the new building of the Ráckeve District Court. The preparation of the construction of the new building of the Érd District Court, set up this year, the complete reconstruction of the Tapolca District Court, the Danube District Court, the preparation of the establishment of the new building of the Kiskőrös District Court, the complete reconstruction and expansion of the building of the Kisvárda District Court and the Szarvas District Court are also among the objectives, the design works were also launched by the OBH in 2018. In addition to wage and infrastructural developments, significant investments related to electronic court proceedings have also been made, and it is enough to mention only the digital court project giving them a framework. Ladies and gentlemen, It can also be concluded from what I have said that both the previous years and the 2020 budget provide both courts and prosecutors with the necessary funds for high-level work and continuous improvement of working conditions. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-20-110	Thank you very much, Congressman Charles Becsó. I now give the floor to the representative of Jobbik, Congressman Adam Steinmetz.
u2019-06-20-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Here in the debate on the 2020 Budget Act, I thank you for your attention and patience at the tenth hour today, and I wish you much energy for the rest of the debate. At the same time, I am delighted that we have heard several times today, and the Hungarian economy is performing well and developing dynamically. In a well-functioning democracy, during the legislative process and thus during the drafting of the fiscal law, I believe that a social consensus should be sought, which is also reflected in the fact that the governing party accepts the opposition's proposals. Today, many statistics, a number of numbers have been made here before this House, allow me to bring two here now. One is 537 and the other is 0. 537 is the legislative amendment proposed by the members of the Jobbik fraction as an amendment to last year's Budget Act; 0 is what you have accepted from this. Just by the way, I noted 40 of them, and I think they were well-founded, given the fact that I had consulted with the Mayors of Somogy before him, and they represented living and otherwise rational needs. I can honestly say that the sentence of the Minister for Finance, Mihály Varga, which, by the way, admired me, ended this debate, was, yes, in the place of the Secretary of State, and I remember that he turned back to the opposition benches, and he concluded this debate by saying that we would have liked to have tabled good amendments, that we would have accepted them. I think it is difficult to imagine that none of the 537 proposals were well founded. I rather see your lack of cooperation and generosity in the context of this, that this has happened. And, by the way, we also have good reason to believe that you do not read these proposals, so you will vote for it. It can therefore be concluded that the social consensus I have mentioned has not been achieved in the course of the establishment of last year's budget, but I sincerely hope that this will turn out differently this year. Of course, I know, and now I appeal to my fellow opposition Members that it is typically a opposition attitude to criticise a bill, especially the individual points and items of the budget law, there is always a goal to which we ask for money, or budget items to which we would otherwise spend more, more money. But let us be self-critical and realistic in that the stability and implementation of the budget are the responsibility of the government at all times, and this responsibility is on their shoulders. Therefore, following last year's advice from the Minister of Finance, I presented a number of proposals again this year, seeking to make good proposals, so much so that this year I also made the earlier ideas and promises of my fellow Member, József Attila Fideszes, which have not yet been fulfilled. By the way, I support them myself, that's why I did it. Let us put them in a very short line as to what we are talking about in particular. In 2009, the Member proposed the state ownership of the wine sector in Balatonboglár and the use of producers. You've been in government for nine years, and it hasn't been implemented to this day, but I have tabled this motion. In 2014, before the elections, the Member promised to convert the hospital in Marcal to an emergency centre, to purchase CT equipment and to build a rescue helicopter landing track. These were not realized either, and I therefore thought that I would now submit these ideas. I will go on: in 2018, in front of the former Petőfi Sándor barracks building in Marcal, left undeserved to die before the elections, the Member promised a defence plant with 200-220 new jobs. I'm not gonna tell you a big secret, I don't think it's real, so I just submitted this. Not least, his recent promise: on the perhaps most serious problem in his constituency, on the matter of the hospital in Marcal, he promised that he would become independent at the beginning of this year, separated from Kaposvár, but this did not happen either. I have just submitted this, and I trust you will appreciate it. But while I think that you have the political will to achieve these objectives, I think that the Member will only agree with you when he promises this to the electorate, and I also assume that from time to time he will use his lobbying activity to achieve these objectives, but this has proved to be little. What do you miss then? I ask the question. The source of the budget. Let us create a resource for this in the budget and create that I stress these ideas that I should support and support many of us at the latest next year. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, if you reject these proposals, you do not support them, which are basically the proposals of Attila Móring József, which means that you do not consider these needs to be justified, and you do not consider these matters to be important. Then consider, at the same time, that, by rejecting your decision, you will make the Member extremely uncomfortable and uncomfortable for the citizens of Marcal and Balatonboglár, he will become discredited. So I'm also asking you not to let this happen. Finally, I would like to ask you, on behalf of thousands of our fellow citizens in Somogy, to provide funds for these purposes from the budget of 22 000 billion in front of us, so that I do not go too far, at least some of the items earmarked for 24 billion government communications, so that they can be achieved. Believe me, my fellow Members and State Secretary, that the Somogyians do not need government propaganda, not migrantism, not serialisation, not Brussels, but meaningful jobs, substantial wages, the expansion of manufacturing and, not least, the development of health care. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[17.20]]
u2019-06-20-112	Thank you very much, Congressman Adam Steinmetz. I now give the floor to Victor Vinnai, Fidesz Group.
u2019-06-20-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen, In the light of the budget, I would like to talk about vocational training and adult education; it is important sectors of education. Before I talk about budget subsidies, numbers, I must say that vocational training and the transformation and further development of adult education are taking place. After 2010 we made laws on this in 11 and 13 and recently became public about the,, Vocational Training,, which can bring significant changes in content and organisation in this area, if the government submits this bill at the autumn session and the Parliament adopts it after the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, The point of the change is that the number of people applying to vocational training should be attractive, because if we can make it attractive, professional training will improve, the number of skilled people will increase, and this will have a positive impact on the labour market and employment. Let me put it this way: demand-driven vocational training is needed. Therefore, not offering from the school side, but also taking into account the needs of the economy, demand-driven vocational training is needed, and dual training should be strengthened, thus providing practical education, and the value of trainers and engineer teachers should be estimated. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Finance Mihály Varga said yesterday in his exposé that the 2020 budget provides more resources in all areas. This is also true in the field of education, as we spend 48 billion HUF more next year than we did this year. This is HUF 2078 billion, which is nearly 5 percent of GDP, as we are talking about a GDP of between 40,000 and 42 000 billion. But if you look at the figures for how much we spent on education in 2010, now we're spending 633 billion more, a 44 percent increase in ten years. Therefore, this area is important, education is important, and vocational training, adult education is very important, because those who acquire qualifications can also show up in the labour market and can find work, can contribute to full employment in Hungary, and from this point of view, if they have a job, income, successful people, then their family will be successful, the community or the settlement, the country in which we live will be successful. Let's see, fellow Members, the numbers. Number of vocational training institutions in vocational training centres: 381, number of students: 218 197. So you can see that there are about as many students in vocational high school, vocational school, and vocational school as there are in high schools, so some over 200,000 of the 400,000 high school students. In the budget, the planned funding is HUF 149 billion, which is added to its own revenue, i.e. the revenue of the vocational training centers, HUF 152 billion, which is 1.5 billion more than in 2019, so this year. Let me mention to you that it is very important for vocational training centres to manage well, so at the beginning of the year, the government appointed Chancellors, to be more precise: the competent minister, to have a stable, predictable management of this area. Moreover, the provision of free textbooks from the 2020-21 academic year also covers vocational education and training courses, and this requires additional resources, since the vocational training centres, as I mentioned, have about 40-42 such centres, account for some 218 thousand students and 27 500 students in vocational training centres. Ladies and gentlemen, Adult education activities provided by vocational training centres should also be mentioned, as the emerging economy has a continuous, growing need for skilled labour and this replacement needs to be developed, and vocational training takes place in vocational training schools. If I may, let me give you today's personal example of the shortage of labour in Hungary. I am a representative of Nyíregyháza and its region, Western Szabolcs County, until the Tisza, to Rakamaz-Tokaj, and today there were two cases because I held a press conference in Nyíregyháza and Tiszavasvári this morning where I met a man, say, an air-conditioning Hungarian small-medium entrepreneur who complained to me that he couldn't find a workforce. There's a lot of work, there's a lot of people looking for him, he's going to the quality, he wants to hire people who, if they install the climate, take out guarantees, and he can't get rid of all the work because he doesn't have a man. The other: I went into a retail store, a clothing store, where an old friend of mine complained about the fact that he couldn't hire a commercial salesman for a guaranteed minimum with a secondary education or a certain skill. He said, I quote his word, he could give you 130-140 thousand net. This is happening in Nyíregyháza, Szabolcs county, where we know that wage increases must be handled with caution, how small and medium-sized entrepreneurs can pay their contributions. So what I'm saying is that there is a very serious shortage of labour in Hungary, these signals are coming to us, and the,, Vocational Training 4.0, which can bring about changes in content and organisation, I say, I know that Parliament will negotiate at the autumn session, and therefore its budget must be stable in this area. I would also like to say some numbers because I have added up the chapters that represent the support chapters in this area. As I said, the primary objective of the national economy is to further increase employment. In fact, in the county of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg, when I became a Member, in 2010, I had regions and settlements where unemployment was 8-10-12 percent, now 3.5 percent in Nyíregyháza and its surroundings, and 5-6 percent in the region of Tiszavasvári or in the region of Ibrány and Rakamaz, so it improved significantly, so that the number of public employees in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county fell by half, so many were able to move to the primary labour market, the competitive sector. Now there are about 20,000 people working at county level in public employment, and if I know the national figures, there are 100,000 people nationwide in Borsod, Szabolcs and Hajdú counties, so nearly half or almost half of them, or exactly half of them, I don't know the exact numbers that work in public employment or local governments or in the Start micro-region work programme. So this is very important to increase. It contributes to employment by making use of the more flexible, efficient and operational possibilities of the public vocational training institution system. In fact, this is why it is important to broaden the training and retraining supply of public institutions and to maintain and expand their training tasks. However, cooperation between vocational training institutions and economic operators should be further strengthened through more flexible adaptation to changes in the labour market and effective operation of the vocational training institution system. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to mention the National Vocational Training and Adult Education Office, which manages from around HUF 2.5 billion and performs statutory tasks in the field of public adult education and vocational training. Of course, vocational training centres also have adult education tasks, a new funding system from 2015-16, and from January 2018 a normative funding has been in place, which means that adult education can acquire a degree, a profession, that about 50-55 thousand people learn in vocational training for the purpose of obtaining a qualification or for the purpose of obtaining a degree. [[17 .30]] This is now, this year, 12 billion forints, a little less in the 2020 budget, and this must also be said, but this register is open from above, and if the number will not decrease, it will need to be replaced from the central framework. I would like to say with respect what the budget line looks like, which concerns vocational training and adult education. So, as I said, Vocational Training Centres run from 152 billion, the National Vocational Training and Adult Education Office from nearly 2.5 billion, receive 12 billion for vocational training centres for adult education, this appropriation is now falling by half, but I have just mentioned that, if necessary, this needs to be replaced by the central framework. Forints 25 billion will receive vocational training and adult training grants, and it is very important that what came from the VET contribution and this increased by 2019 was HUF 112 billion out of VET contribution, and a significant part of it, HUF 71 billion will be used for the development and financing of VET. It is very important that those who go to vocational training, vocational school, vocational secondary school, often have a family background that is a very important motivating factor. There is a scholarship system called Adolf Szabóky, and the state spends 7.7 billion forints or wants to spend 600 million on the budget and 600 million on the Vocational Training Bridge programme, which means that eight general or partial training can be obtained in the Vocational Training Bridge programme. Ladies and gentlemen, There are also three items that are important items. One of them is eligible from the central framework, it is for the legal tasks of chambers, chambers of commerce and industry, because they are also involved in training, with HUF 6.5 billion in the appropriations and HUF 4.9 billion in investment-enhancing training programmes and training workshops, with the condition that it can be used with an individual ministerial decision. And there's 5.3 billion forints... Let me stop for a second. We argue a lot at the Cultural Committee meeting, Dóra Dúró was the president, and I did a little digging into the topic of school leaving, early school leaving, early dropout, how it is in Hungary, because it is more than 10 percent, 11.7 percent, and we agreed that by 2020 this should be around 10 percent, it should reach 10 percent or it should be less than 10 percent. It is a very difficult task, and it must be acknowledged that it is a very difficult task, but in fact, for early school leaving in the vocational training system, the bridge programme or one such that I give scholarships to not only those who go to the first to second grade of vocational training, but also by means of an apprenticeship, companies give them apprenticeships and scholarships. So everyone in vocational training would get a scholarship, this plan, this vocational training 4.0, I'm saying it's a plan because we're going to discuss this in the autumn of 2019. So, in summing up the amounts, I would like to say a number that may not have been accurate, but we are spending 287 billion forints on vocational training and adult education. This is a significant amount, I think, that this amount will also be useful, and this will need to be adapted to the content and organisational change that we would like to see that the needs of the economy are better served by vocational training, and this would start from the 2020 school year, which is scheduled to start from 1 September 2020. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that there is a sound budget for vocational training and adult education, and these resources, if scarce, Mr Secretary of State, seem sufficient. A very good central framework, which is open from above, and if you have to put a few funds or a few billion forints from the central framework, it is possible to do so, and this area is linked to the labour market in addition to education, and it is linked to the fact that those who today acquire qualifications, qualifications and qualifications in Hungary are doing better than those who do not. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-20-114	Thank you very much, Congressman Vinnai. They're two minutes away. First, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Jr.
u2019-06-20-115	Mr President, Dear House, I am very pleased that, through my fellow Member, Vinnai, there has been a particularly important topic for vocational training. I am in favour of idea 4.0, so I would like to state this, but at the same time we in the Committee on Enterprise Development, when figures came up during the hearing of the State Secretary and discussing the subject, they were of a slightly different nature. I'd like to shade this picture. On the one hand, the number of people flowing from public employment to the primary labour market was not considered to be successful in any statement, since there was a figure of between 10 and 20%. I'm not saying it's zero-equivalent, not at all, but I'm saying that calling it a successful construction would be a big exaggeration, given that the number of public workers hasn't shown any increase lately. I myself support the fact that the person who may have spent his time at home would rather do some kind of work now, but it doesn't matter what it is that we can argue about in this area. However, I would like to mention to you, in the light of your references to full employment, that according to statistics, there are 600 thousand of our countrymen in Hungary today who must either be forced into the black economy to earn their daily bread or on the brink of the grey economy, and there are young people in Szabolcsi. I have said many times that a branch of my family is saboteur, and there are those inactive young people in the villages who were condemned to inactivity without a college system and a previous decent vocational training system, and after nine years of government, the autumn plans can be heard as saving, but I'm a little impatient. I'd like to share another signal with you, and thank you for responding to that. The fact is that we have received signals that, in the case of vocational training centres and workshops, zero forints have been spent on purchasing equipment in recent years, I do not claim that they have happened everywhere, but that there have been dozens of such signals, that is quite certain, and the reason for this is perhaps precisely the ministerial countersignation that I have mentioned. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Without this, the system might be more flexible, more efficient, and we could bring these inactive young people in (The President bells) pull me into the productive sphere. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-20-116	Thank you, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. I'll give the floor to Congressman Péter Ovadi for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2019-06-20-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to the words of my fellow Member, Adam Steinmetz, who said how many amendments Jobbik has tabled to amend the budget. I would like to draw my fellow Member's attention to what the 2020 budget contains. As we have said, it contains the family protection action plan, the economic protection action plan, tax reduction, but then let's go to a more limited section: it contains the program of the modern cities, the Hungarian village, which also includes investments in the electoral district, as it can further develop the zoo from the program "Modern Cities" and the swimming pool can be built. But if we are talking about vocational training, we will start the industrial park in Veszprém, which will be a unique investment in the region, and I think that when you vote on the budget, you will also vote on it, and that should be the case. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-20-118	Thank you very much, Congressman Péter Ovadi. I would like to inform Mr Vinnai that he will only be able to apply for a two-minute comment in the next round. [[Dr. Winner Vinnai: Sorry.]] Honourable Parliament! I would also like to inform the Parliament that the LMP Group will hand over one minute 42 seconds to the Jobbik Group the time frame remaining for today's meeting. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. Lajos Rig: Great ovation! We're time millionaires!]] I'd like the staff of the upstairs box to transfer the time frame. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Fidesz can hand you over, we welcome you! He stayed in yesterday! The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Bányai, Fidesz.
u2019-06-20-119	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Mrs. Secretary of State, Lords! Ladies and gentlemen, At the heart of the government's economic policy, the support of Hungarian families is heard from us almost every day, but it is also part of the maintenance and protection of economic results and focuses on it in the 2020 budget law proposal. In the spirit of these objectives, the budget has also been drawn up. As a result of our governance started in 2010, the Hungarian economy is now on a long-term growth path. Its growth potential is strengthened by the Government's agreement on wage increases and tax reductions concluded at the end of 2016, which is one of the most important elements of efforts to build a work-based society. [[17.40]] At the same time, it represents a catch-up in wages and a parallel stimulus to the efficiency-enhancing efforts of companies, which will further strengthen the Hungarian economy's job creation and labour retention, income generation and competitiveness. The growth of the Hungarian economy is supported by the strengthening and strengthening of the labour-based economy replacing the aid-based economy of former socialist-liberal governments. The government has given priority to employment aspects, and its objective is to make it worthwhile for everyone in Hungary to work, and to ensure that people earn a living primarily from income, instead of aid. One of the main merits of the efforts to build a work-based society is the wage-raising and tax-reduction agreement concluded at the end of 2016, which represents both a wage-receiving and a parallel incentive for companies to improve efficiency. As a result of this agreement, the ability of the Hungarian economy to create and maintain jobs is strengthened. In view of the strengthening of the Hungarian economy and the shortage of labour in the competitive sector, it is a priority to mobilise the labour resources of the economy in order to ensure that young people starting their careers, mothers with young children, the public workers, job seekers and the inactive, long-term unemployed enter or return to the world of work, and preferably in Hungary. In order to achieve full employment, the government aims to promote the mobility of the labour force within the country, and as one of its tools, it is also part of the budget to encourage the construction and renovation of working accommodations. In the spring of 2017, a new employment policy instrument was introduced by the government, with which municipalities and associations, as well as companies owned by local governments, were now eligible for support. In addition, with the fall 2019 extension of the programme, private companies already have the opportunity to build or renovate working accommodations with support. A further reduction in the social contribution tax rate for next year will also contribute to maintaining these favourable processes. As a result of the government's measures and market developments, the number of employees was close to 4.5 million, and the unemployment rate decreased to 3.5 percent, mainly as a result of the growing employment rate in the domestic primary labour market. Strong labour demand will continue to lead to positive developments in the coming period. Employment growth, the decline in unemployment rates and the dynamic rise in wages can continue, resulting in real earnings rising by 41 percent in 2018 compared to 2010, and thus households' incomes are likely to continue to improve. In order to maintain favourable investment trends, the threshold for development tax relief for small and medium-sized enterprises will be gradually reduced from HUF 500 million in three steps. In order to obtain funding and improve their competitiveness, Garantiqa Credit Guarantee Zrt. has a budget of HUF 10 billion in 2020. the capital increase, as well. A wage increase and tax reduction agreement concluded at the end of 2016 will help to reduce public burdens on employment. The social contribution tax will be reduced by another 2 percentage points from 19.5 percent to 17.5 percent as a result of our joint decision as of 1 June 2019. Depending on the evolution of real earnings, the social contribution tax rate could be reduced by another 2 percentage points in 2020. I would also like to bring here tax policy differences as to what happened before 2010, and what has happened since then in Hungary. During left-wing-liberal governance, there were hardly any contributions, taxes or levies that did not change or increase. Moreover, the direction of the changes was not always clear, they jumped with VAT and all kinds of other taxes, and economic operators were having difficulty adapting to them. In the framework of their failed tax policy, a number of special withdrawals were introduced. The employees' health insurance contributions have been increased, the tax relief of pension contributions and private pension funds has been abolished, the investment tax credit has been abolished, the taxes on companies' cars have been doubled, inheritance fees, innovation contributions, energy taxes and environmental charges have been raised. The 4 per cent solidarity tax was introduced, eva, employee health insurance contributions and labour market contributions were increased. Public burdens have also been imposed on retired workers. By contrast, most of these have now been reduced or abolished. It is a very big question, this House, what reserves Hungary has for improving the situation in the labour market, there is a chance that the employment rate, which is now more than 10 percent higher than it was in 2010, and we are slowly reaching the level of the Visegrád Four, although we are still significantly behind Germany, has reserves. Growth is very important for all of us, although in several LMP comments, the possibility and chances of pushing the economy back to prehistoric times have been said here. This may also mean that if we want to lead to further economic growth in Hungary thanks to our activities, our work and the laws, the key is, after all, in the expansion of employment, and that this has a real basis, there are Hungarian people outside Hungary or Hungary who can strengthen our economic growth. At present, it seems that Hungary has today's statistics that it is passive unemployment and then 45,000 women and men, while there are 133,000 unemployed people, we have 34 thousand unemployed compatriots. Their fate is a matter of life, so that it can be resolved as soon as possible. There are 50,000 public-employed people with qualifications, so in total the workforce reserve in this area represents 262,000 people. In the medium term, Hungary's labour reserve situation, its vision is that the unemployed have 167 thousand people, the number of public workers is 125 thousand, including our countrymen working at a foreign establishment represent 110 thousand. In addition, the number of our official countrymen who are registered abroad, working with a tax number of 400 thousand, could result in 780 to 800 thousand people still in Hungary, who could be involved in the Hungarian labour market, and we could base on the further sustainability of Hungarian economic growth and such a similar rate, which, in recent years and this semester, seems to be over and over again beating the averages so far. It is a very big question, which Mr Vinnai has said to me a lot, talked to me, but not only has he spoken, but he knows about the present and future of vocational training, because he has also worked a lot in this field of work. We have seen several times in previous decades, especially after 2002, when the Minister of Hungarian Bálint destroyed the Hungarian vocational training system, when it became a shame that in Hungary parents are not raising students, children, but industrialists. The result of this policy was that the schools in which vocational training was carried out were empty. As a result, there is a real shortage of professionals in Hungary today, but not only because they may also work abroad, but we simply did not train enough young people, and since 2002, twenty years have passed since they started this destructive policy. As a result, a generation of people in the country, in our country, in our country must be created again, who can return to the economy and ensure growth with their work. Therefore, with regard to the development of our vocational training system of all kinds, Commission President Dániel Z. Kárpát said that he has received a number of dozens of complaints that there has been no money for the acquisition of equipment, there has been no procurement of assets in recent years. I don't know, but I'm very proud of the county of Bács-Kiskun, because there was a great deal of money, hundreds of millions and billions spent usefully from domestic and EU sources on the procurement of equipment for vocational training centers. Not to mention that there are many opportunities for entrepreneurs, let us not say that in the valet training, because it sounds bad that they are training as a footman, but who are training young people who want to spend practical time within the vocational training system are involved in a number of development programmes, so that, by modernising their own tools, they are able to train professionals for today's European labour market, but especially those who are qualified for the labour market in Hungary. So I heard something else, I see something else in Bács-Kiskun, not to mention that I belong to the Kiskunhalas Vocational Training Center, and I see that there are very serious improvements. In addition, we also need to talk about how much the number of job vacancies in Hungary has increased by more than six times in the last nine to ten years compared to 2010. Today's nearly 83-87,000 jobs are not necessarily just the very difficult job, there are a lot of jobs empty and unfilled. [[17.50]] This is not bad, and it is good that it increases the labour force's wage and growth in the labour market, because there is a very high demand for skilled professionals in the labour market. Therefore, it is vital that in Hungary, in vocational training centres, next year in its techniques, every young Hungarian should have the opportunity and respect of living on the job of two hands. For today, when someone invites a plumber in Budapest, in a small town or small town, or in a small village, or invites a furniture tabletender, a multiple of the wages of his fellow countrymen with a teacher's degree or other degree are sought by those who know a profession, but even those who have learned it, have been stalked by someone and can work, even if not necessarily officially. The point is that in Hungary today the thinking begins to change, that it is possible to make a living from two-handed work with an industrial education, but in addition, we will be able to give our young people, children and grandchildren a degree in technology. To conclude, although he has not been here for a long time, since last year's election, Member Nándor Gúr, who constantly mocked the Prime Minister's promise of one million jobs, announced by Prime Minister in 2010, although it is true that my fellow Member Z. Karpat always mentions that KSH sometimes counts on some of the people working abroad and also on young people and students working in the summer, yet it is very important that the number of taxpayers in Hungary has increased by 750 thousand. If this is not a result, although there is still a shortage, 200,000 people who would support the growth of one million employees would support the promise, but it is a huge achievement that the number of employees in the labour market will continue to grow dynamically in Hungary thanks to both fiscal laws and government economic policies. As a result, Hungarian economic growth will not only decrease, but we can maintain the level of maintaining the Hungarian economy despite all economic recessions. As a closing point: I do not have a fixed idea for the automotive industry because in Bács-Kiskun county there is a very serious car manufacturing company, a very large undertaking, but it should be pointed out that my colleague Ungár has spoken about this, most of Hungary's car manufacturers manufacture premium brands. This should be borne in mind that we are not manufacturing the cheapest cars in the Far East, but some of the best cars in the world are made in Hungary, and during the global financial and economic crisis in 2008, sales of these brands decreased least, so there will still be no possibility of reduction, fortunately for us, and unfortunately for the opposite, since the development of premium brands of Hungarian car manufacturers has not stopped. They have a very strong capacity for innovation renewal, and they have started to integrate other drive chains and other energy sources into the cars of the future, and their experiments are also taking place in Hungary. As a result, despite opposition contributions with a negative self-fulfilling prediction of the decline in automotive production in Hungary, believe me that Hungary is very, very important not in its weakness, but in its strength, the Hungarian automotive industry and all other industrial sectors, where they will also fill the jobs with very serious Hungarian knowledge, engineers and technicians trained in Hungary. This budget for next year can support and strengthen this, I think. Support him, too. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-20-120	Thank you, Congressman Gábor Bányai. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2019-06-20-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Allow me to respond to Mr Vinnai's speech at the outset. In most of his speech, the Member described the labour shortage in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County, where appropriate, and indeed the Member is right, but not only in your county, but also at national level there is a great shortage of shopkeepers, waiters, chefs, health workers, craftsmen, and we could still tell how many professions there are in Hungary today. Congressman, there's only one reason for this. This is your economic policy. The economic policy that has left this country with 600 to 800 thousand well-trained young or middle-aged professionals to manage abroad. You know, Congressman, when you tell us how to imagine it, they'd give a store clerk a net of 130 to 140 thousand forints, and they can't find the right guy, you know why? Because 130-140 thousand forints is approximately 370 pounds. If you go out to England to be a shop salesman, you will get three times that, and you will earn three times that, while, by the way, prices are roughly the same as in Hungary. So you should have been concerned with pursuing an economic policy such as supporting Jobbik's Wage Union initiative, whose main aim is to try to bring wages closer to wages in Western Europe, if that was already promised to Hungarian citizens when they joined the EU; and by doing a wage increase, we should have tried to keep young people at home for whom... an intense number, more than 50 percent of young people in high school or higher education today are thinking of leaving the country to manage and live, something must be done about this, because then Hungary will be in a very, very difficult situation. If our Wage Union initiative had been supported, it would have served the very purpose of keeping it at home and inviting those young people home, the skilled labour force that is now seeking prosperity abroad. Therefore, economic policy, tax policy, cohesion policy, cohesion resources should be used, for example, to really, what you said, that wage increases in different sectors and segments really have to be carried out differently, and to take into account whether SMEs, Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, are able to produce these wage increases, and how they can achieve this. That's why they need help. That is why the government should be concerned with how it could reduce the tax burden on these SMEs, how it could support them, and not constantly conclude strategic agreements with those multi-enterprises that serve multinational companies that want to keep Hungarian wages low, because they are in their interest. You should not be a partner in bringing 86,000 migrant workers into this country, various, Mongolian, Ukrainian and any migrant workers who are pushing down the wages in Hungary. From then on, if you would do such an effort either on economic policy or on a different level, it would be possible to talk about your doing something about it. You do nothing, you condemn this trend in words, you talk about how few people are in this country, but what is the reason for this is because of you, and you have done nothing about it. Now, I would like to get to the budget hearing, and I would like to express my opinion on all of this, which you have just submitted. It is a tradition, isn't it, that the budget for the coming year will be presented well before the autumn session, which could be a pleasure in the theoretically more time to discuss the draft. Unfortunately, however, it is in vain for the government to submit the budget proposal well before the date laid down by law, if it does not take more time to discuss the proposal in this House, the majority of governments are expected to accept it as a simple voting machine. Even if there was still time and opportunity to discuss the budget proposal more widely, or to consult the relevant sectoral and social actors publicly, the government does not want to hear these opinions. Even though this House has already adopted the budget law early, with which it would theoretically guarantee predictability, based on the practice of previous years, we find that regular, large-scale amendments are being initiated in the reference year, which the majority of governments are voting without criticism. We have seen for years that the proportion of taxforints spent by the state on its own is increasing significantly compared to the resources spent on other public tasks. This trend is controversial because the government is talking about cutting red tape and cutting down the state. In previous years, the number of background institutions has been drastically reduced, but nevertheless, the operation has not become cheaper, and, as the current draft shows, the state intends to operate its apparatus again more expensively than in the previous year. The costs did not decrease in 2019, despite a significant reduction in staff, the only impact of this measure was a drastic slowdown in the administration of cases. However, it is a sad consequence of this hypocritical spectacle governance that the tasks of the removed background institutions are unclaimed in the bureaucracy mazes, and the time for handling individual cases has increased considerably. [[18.00]] The skills of the political appointees placed in the place of fired employees, managers and middle managers are low, and decisions are taken slowly, which, moreover, often suffer from material error, thus their correction consumes more time and energy. The Hungarian people receive much more expensive services from the state. This is clearly a sign of a lack of governorship. Departure from the public sector cannot simply be prevented by increasing resources, especially by not turning it backwards, and creating a working environment free of active political influence would be the first step, but you have the opposite objective. The draft budget law for 2020 does not contain any major changes, shocking restructuring or refocusing compared to 2019. About every chapter has been said to have increased its operational appropriations to a lesser or greater extent, so the proposal suggests that the same will be expected next year as in this year. The budget planning therefore did not respond to the fine and sometimes desperate signals of the institutional system or society, nor did it make any changes that would alleviate the existing known and recognised problems and disproportionateities. The existing imbalances are thus preserved from source to source, which predicts that the problems arising from this imbalance will continue in the future. The budget proposal reflects the government's real ambitions. It clearly shows the autocratic trends in the country's governance. These autocratic elements are not based on professional considerations or real social needs, but are derived from the personal will of a single person, the Prime Minister. The structure of sport funding and state propaganda on sport are examples of this phenomenon. At the level of words, the government is concerned about the healthy education and physical development of youth. To this end, he introduced everyday physical education, which was also welcomed and supported by Jobbik Hungary, but the government did not provide the necessary financial and infrastructural conditions. In previous years, around HUF 3-3 billion has been earmarked for gymnasiums and schools. The amount was facially small even then, which Jobbik Hungary's Movement complained about year after year. We have also tried to make amendments, without success, and you have all swept them off the table. These lines were left out of the draft before us with a noble simplicity. Thus, there is either a gym and training centre with sufficient capacity in all public education institutions, or the government is no longer important to support the healthy physical development of our children. Sport plays a very important role in society, both at the level of individuals and at the level of smaller and larger communities. Achieving different sports goals depends not only on physical performance and investment, but also on people's attitudes, the social acceptance and support of sport. The promotion of sport is therefore an objective that deserves significantly more than the planned budget of HUF 25 million. We bring this up every year, and we recommend that you increase the amount to promote sport, but you will vote against it every year in the same way; we have tabled the amendment again this year, and I think you will be voted off again this year. In comparison, the budget for the promotion of Hungaricums is HUF 490 million. The impact of sport on general health and well-being is a public fact, but Hungary is one of the most obese, passive and most prone to disease throughout Europe. Adding to this the pathetic state of health can lead to a catastrophic situation in the near future. In order to spread an active lifestyle at social level, of course, it takes much more than educational publications and advertising campaigns, but social awareness-forming is absolutely necessary, but you, as I said, are rejecting every year our proposed budget amendments because you do not feel it is important to promote sport in society. However, social thinking cannot be identified with competition sport, which, as in previous years, the government intends to support very generously in 2020 as well. Support for competition sports will increase from HUF 5.1 billion in 2019 to HUF 9.8 billion in 2020. Competition sports today is a privilege of few people, and it could be said that it is a gentleman's hobby, financed by the state from every Hungarian taxpayer's sweaty work. The Prime Minister's hobby is football, whose performance is unfortunately more deplorable year after year [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks.]] Apart from the flagship success that has been missed, he is still the winner of the budget. The Hungarian Football Association's support of 5.2 billion in 2018 increased to 7.1 billion in 2019 and will increase to HUF 9 billion in 2020 and nearly double in two years. The preference for competition sport over mass sports is spectacular. I would just like to mention a few figures. The professional support for competition and Olympic preparation is HUF 3.1 billion, as opposed to HUF 320 million in the operation of strategic, sports and innovation processes. The ratio is 10 times higher for professional sports. Hungaroring Sport Zrt. support for HUF 14.7 billion in the innovation portfolio, compared to 760 million in leisure port. The ratio is 20 times higher for professional sports. 22.2 billion operating grants to support tasks related to the implementation of sports development concepts, compared to 640 million HUF to support student and student sport. The ratio is 35 times higher for professional sports. In the light of the numbers, the situation is absolutely disappointing. Sports funding is increasing throughout the budget, but support for activities and goals that affect Hungarian people in the right direction, affecting their lives and protecting their health, within sports funding, is dwarfed by visual investment. In professional football, the government continues to uncount the tax forints, despite the fact that the results of recent years do not justify any increase in support, and even the decline in social interest is tangible and visible to the naked eye. And how you manage this money, just think that Ferencváros has closed this year with a deficit of 1.7 billion forints, which you strongly support. In conclusion, the 2020 budget proposal remained faithful to the Fidesz governance of previous years, and communication and visual governance is financed without real achievements and results. In the field of sport, the same phenomenon is reflected, where the government spends money uncounted on the spectacular elements, with the support of activities and goals that influence people's lives in a positive direction dwarfed. Allow me to do one more thing, on which we also submit an amendment every year, again this year, but you do not support the great family protection, because there is a population loss in this country, a catastrophic population loss, and the birth of children must be supported. We submit it every year, because one of the most pressing problems of population loss is our country, in order to stop population loss, we need to give all the help we can to couples who want to have children. [[For signal:]] Yes, Congressman, I see you nodding, but couples should also give this help, and we call attention to this every year to those who want to have children, but for various reasons they do not succeed in giving children naturally. After many years of alternative medical attempts and interventions, these couples have the last hope of the IVF program, in Hungarian: the flask baby program. [[Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz, including Gábor Bányai: It works.]] Excuse me? [[To his fellow Members:]] What did he say? [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2019-06-20-122	Congressman Bányai, in a two-minute period. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-20-123	Press the button, by the way, Congressman. [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2019-06-20-124	Go on, Congressman, notary. [[18.10]]
u2019-06-20-125	Press the button, Congressman, feel free. Believe me, hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families... [[Gábor Bányai intervenes.]] You can laugh at that. Hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families have problems with [[The president's ringing the bell.]] That they want to have children, but they can't...
u2019-06-20-126	Congressman Bányai, in two minutes! [[Gábor Bányai: You're lying...]] You have the floor, Mr. Notary, continue. Go on.
u2019-06-20-127	Hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families have problems with wanting children and not having children. In the past period, if the government had waited a half-tenth of a second, it would have heard more changes to the flask baby program, which reported progress over the past period. However, there is a segment of this issue that they refuse to address, even though we say it year after year. Such an intervention is very expensive, costs 1.2 to 1.4 million forints, but there is a certain part of itself, this is about 30 percent, which means that a lot of couples fall out of this treatment system because they don't have, say, 300 thousand forints per implant that they should be putting on the various medicines. We want us to create a fund of HUF 3 billion, where couples who cannot produce this share can apply, and there would be no obstacle to creating this part of themselves if they want to have children, so they can participate in this program. So I think that this would be a clearly eligible target, we have again submitted it. We are asking you to support this amendment, because if you also want to have a population loss in Hungary, if it is important for you to have as many children as possible, then this is a very important question to support young people, people who want to have children, but it is not possible for them to do so without their own fault. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-20-128	Thank you, Congressman Szilágyi, notary. I give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő.
u2019-06-20-129	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Congressman György Szilágyi has used the term "show steering" several times. If we want to interpret this as the performance of the Hungarian economy over the past few years has been spectacular in many areas, then I accept the indicator. [[György Szilágyi: That's not what I meant.]] I thought that was not what you understood, but let me say the Eurostat numbers again, let me say, in terms of economic growth. In 2017, we calculate 4.1 percent, in 2018, 4.9 percent, and this year we estimate an increase of around 4 percent. I'm sure the congressman knows that the first quarter's data is up to five percent. The proposal for a budget law before you calculates that next year there will be a 4% increase. These numbers are spectacularly higher than the average of the European Union. As far as wage changes are concerned, let me tell you only three years of fact. Net real earnings growth in 2016 is 7.4 per cent, and in 2017 10.3 per cent [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] , 2018, 8.3 percent. I hear Mr Dániel Z. Karpat's comment that it was a low base. Congressman, yes, I do not want to be too political, the country was not in an easy position in 2010. I did not want to mention this, but let us look at the situation in which the country was in, let us see how the other countries of the European Union, which were, say, in a similar or better budgetary situation, were able to recover, what growth figures were achieved and what wage catch-up they had achieved. I think that government has visible results, and not only from the statistics I mention, but also from the wage increases that the opposition has recognised today in the field of police, military, government officials, health workers. I am not saying that there is no room for a wage increase yet, and there is no doubt that we would all be most pleased if we could increase wages even more, but the claim that this can only be done in a responsible way. From this point of view, to be honest, I find it difficult to interpret the term "wage union" economically. Congressman, let's think about what the union means. If you mean that there should be equal wages everywhere in the Member States of the European Union... [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: No!]] That is not what you mean by it; then we are closer to the matter; then, too, Member, he admits that it is impossible, economically absurd, to have equal wages. If this is acknowledged by the Jobbik faction, then from here I think it is clear that what we can do is the so-called wage convergence that can be achieved: if there is economic growth in a country; if there is demand for products produced in a country, and thus the profitability of companies allows workers to raise their wages; if this is increasing profitability, rising employment means that the income from the central budget is also increasing, which can be increased by wages for public sector employees. Well, please, that's the process we're looking at. If wage convergence and wage convergence are considered important by Jobbik, I believe that this economic policy, on the basis of which the 2020 budget law proposal was put forward, can be supported [[Dr. Winner Vinnai: Support the budget of Jobbik!]] , and the budget proposal itself can be supported. What else can the government do to promote wage growth without causing a deterioration in competitiveness? What you can do is reduce the employer's burden. This is what the six-year wage agreement was about, a historic agreement that has been reached since 1990 with employers and employees. This agreement was about reducing employers' burdens by the State, while simultaneously increasing wages by employers. Many said that the significant reduction in employer contributions that we have implemented will not be able to bear the budget, these were the premiss. We now know that, in addition to the 2016 agreement, the budget was able to maintain its stability in 2017 and 2018, and we were able to increase the level of growth, because the increase in wages was accompanied by an increase in consumption, which fueled the growth of the economy, and at the same time resulted in an increase in tax revenues for items of consumption, higher direct tax revenues, and this could offset the reduction in the employer's tax. This is the way forward for next year's draft budget law, as the reduction of the social contribution tax by 2 percentage points from July 2019 leaves HUF 144 billion to businesses next year, with a total of HUF 310 billion. This is what they can do, and this tax reduction allows companies to raise their wages without changing their level of cost. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] Many times, I hear you now, the multinationals and SMEs... [[György Szilágyi: That's right, they're ignoring it!]] Congressman! Then let's look at the factual changes that have been made to Hungarian SMEs. Didn't the newly elected government start governance in 2010 by reducing corporate tax rates for small and medium-sized enterprises and sectors where the weight of multinational companies is very significant? Wasn't that the first step? I will then ask you what your opinion is on taxes on so-called kata and kiva, small companies and SMEs. By the way, the key to the kiva will be reduced next year, and the kata is a tax category where the tax burden can be eliminated by a monthly payment of HUF 50,000, so I think it is a truly business-friendly tax. It is no coincidence that the proportion of enterprises that choose this has increased significantly in both tax categories. I therefore think that, in addition to encouraging growth, the overall economic policy steps, including tax measures, are a way of making life easier for Hungarian SMEs, and which, in addition to these SMEs, give rise to wage increases in 2020, for example by reducing the rate of social contribution tax, so that we do not lose the profitability of companies. Congressman said the state's spending more on you. With all due respect, I would like to ask you to show me in which appropriations you object to the surplus. Let's see where the state spends more on you. The operational functions of the state include defence and law enforcement expenses in Hungary, as in all countries. If there's a problem with spending more money on law enforcement and defence, that's the way to put it. If the problem is that, thanks to economic growth this year, government officials have achieved an average 30 percent wage increase, then this should be said. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: There is no problem with that!]] Therefore, as regards the functioning of the institutional system, there will be no more ministries or more background institutions in the 2020 budget. I repeat: the state spends more on law enforcement and defence, and this year's wage increase is covered by government officials' wages. [[18.20]] It is appropriate to make it clear that if this is the problem, it should be said that there is a Member's concern about a wage increase. As far as gymnasium and training programmes are concerned, I absolutely agree with the Member that this is a programme that is worth taking forward and, of course, is being carried forward by the 2020 budget bill. There must have been some confusion in the debate on the draft budget law that, under a new law, public civil engineering investments are being carried out in a new structure by the government, and that the expenditure of the gym and school programme can be found not in the chapter of the Ministry of Human Resources, but in the budget chapter containing the key government investments in civil engineering. I can therefore reassure the Member that the programme is to be carried forward by the government. As far as sports subsidies are concerned, the Member quoted the amount of funding for competition sport. Allow me to do two things. My first point is that 2020 is an Olympic year, and perhaps I can say for the Olympic champion Steinmetz, who is absolutely respected for my sports performance, how much competition and role models are for young people. Perhaps the congressman can confirm that when the Hungarian water polo team won the Olympic Championship three times in a row, how many young people applied to play water polo. So I think that competition sports also have a role in terms of [[György Szilágyi: How much do we spend on leisure sports?]] The example of young people and how many people choose sport. What Mr President has not mentioned and is not included in direct budget expenditure is sports offerings through the corporate tax system. It is therefore worth including this in terms of sports subsidies, sport funding, as this corporate tax recommendation is aimed at young people, aimed at ensuring that as many people as possible play sports, and that as many people are healthy as possible. Mr President, you know very well that a significant part of Hungarian society's health problems come from its way of life. If you look at the health data on the number of overweight people, as you mentioned, how many people have sugar problems, these are the problems of life - style, which can be reduced primarily by sports and lifestyle changes. I think that next year's budget will also serve this purpose when it also devotes substantial resources to sport-tao support; this is also included in next year's draft budget law. As far as family support is concerned, it was factually said that the amount that the government, or if the Parliament accepts, will use to support families is outstanding. We can talk about outstanding figures in all kinds of indicators, and in these numbers, in the family support programmes, there is also the item that Mr. President mentioned, and there is also the fact that the government wants to help couples who can't have children naturally. Of course, we will look at what further steps are needed in addition to the measures already taken. I think that next year's draft budget law also includes progress in this area, and if we consider it important not to have a financial limit on the number of children born in Hungary, then overall, I think that next year's draft budget law is eligible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-20-130	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Péter Banai Benő. I give the floor to Congressman László Böröcz, Fidesz.
u2019-06-20-131	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Balliberal side has run out, so we will have fewer people to argue with for now, so since they are not here, I would like to respond in the first place to Mr Szilágyi. And here he mentioned the young people about the exodus. I think the Secretary of State has already said a few things about this in the morning, but it seems to me that Mr. Secretary of State is always coming in and saying the same thing again and again, Mr. Secretary of State must always enlighten them. From the point of view of young people, it would be worth seeing that, in the context of emigration, you often say that the MEPs in Jobbik's benches also say that the majority of young people, the majority of Hungarian citizens, went out here after 2010, which, if you look at the figures, is true. However, the truth is that obviously these people who lost their jobs and their existence in 2009 and 2010 due to the amok run of the socialists, a significant part of them went out to do so, and this obviously came up in 2010-11. The second is a very important moment in this respect, since the Austrian and German labour markets were opened in 2011, and this obviously had an impact. And today we've got more people coming home than they're leaving. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: You know this is not true!]] Obviously, you can argue about numbers, and we've argued about that a lot, but according to the numbers of the Statistical Office, that's true. And one more thing. It was also said to buy an apartment. The government supports the purchase of housing precisely in connection with the founding of a family, and a lot of young people from abroad also come home because wages may be higher in Western Europe, but they would not have the chance to buy a flat on the salary level they are looking for there, and they have the opportunity in Hungary. And believe me, the attitude of people who live in their own apartments is quite different to those who live in their apartments, and that is why we support the ability of as many Hungarians to buy apartments as possible. Mr Secretary of State has said many times why the budget is now being presented, and what is the advantage of negotiating it now. I would just like to mention one thing: in yesterday's debate, who worked in the local government, I am sure that he knows that while the budget was adopted in December, then the municipalities had virtually only a few weeks to set up their own budget afterwards. Obviously, the current situation is much more conducive to this. Turning to the 2020 budget, which could be a family budget because the government's thought-out and consistent economic policy, and in addition to it, the result of the hard work of the Hungarian people, is that today we can debate what I said this morning about which sector should receive more in 2019 or 2020 because each sector will otherwise have more money, unlike the fact that in 2009, ten years ago, the socialists led by Ferenc Gyurcsány had to argue about which sector to take less money from. And that's worth saying every time, anyway. So we can be proud to have more money for each sector. My fellow Members from Fidesz have talked a lot about this, going deeper into some sectors. I'd just like to memorize some of these more important songs. Forints 2000 billion will be paid to health in the next year, which is HUF 740 billion more than in 2010, and HUF 185 billion more than we spent on health last year, so the HUF 185 billion increase is very significant, which means that there is almost 10 percent more access to healthcare. The budget for pension benefits will be increased by HUF 130 billion, with an outstanding 30 percent increase in defence, rising to HUF 550 billion, which means that the defence budget has practically doubled since 2010. Law enforcement spending is close to HUF 920 billion, which is also a huge increase compared to 2010, and this represents an increase of approximately HUF 50 billion compared to. The R &amp; D area is rising over a long period of time, with an increase in resources, with a surplus of 32 billion compared to 2019. The support of Hungarian families has already been mentioned here in the House, with HUF 2228 billion it is virtually a record support. This is HUF 224 billion higher than in 2019. [[18.30]] In 2010, the budget spent HUF 2653 billion on public sector workers' wages, which is now over HUF 4000 billion, and in the framework of the economic protection action plan we are spending some HUF 500 billion on this. Part of this is created in 2019, but it is obviously linked to the budget, as most of it will encourage businesses in the 2020 budget. But I would rather talk about it now, because a lot of things have been said about the difference between the two certificates, because if we look at a budget, it is worth looking at what certification has been issued by the socialist and liberal politicians who are not here, and what certificates have been issued by the current governing parties, and it is worth considering why this has been the case in the last twenty years, and what are the reasons for this. There is certainly one fundamental difference between the two government attitudes: the civilian government never wanted to grow out of credit and never wanted to provide or finance welfare expenses from credit. On the other hand, the socialists, in cooperation with the liberals, practically immediately after 2002, began to abolish the measures of the previous Cabinet, the first Orbán government. The Széchenyi plan, the family tax relief system and the home creation programs have been dismantled and terminated. These were, by the way, all programmes that had an incentive for the economy and an incentive for citizens. I would note here that the socialists often point back here, that, but yes, yes, yes, the first Orbán government started spending already in 2001. In 2001, the general government deficit was 3.5 percent. Socialists have failed to achieve a 3.5 percent deficit in eight years; the deficit has always been higher. In fact, if we want to make an average, the general government deficit under the socialists' governance was virtually above 6 per cent every year between 2002 and 2010. In 2002, as soon as the elections were won, they started a mindless spending. Technically, they financed wage increases from loans, and then they had very serious consequences. Yesterday, MEP László Földi spoke about or gave an exact example of how the socialists did this: they provided basically three months' coverage for the teacher's wage increase and then moved it all to the municipal sector. At the time, schools belonged to the municipalities, and practically the municipal sector had to provide the teacher's wage increase on its own income. As Ferenc Gyurcsány said in 2006, in fact they didn't govern after that, then they just alibied and waited to be pulled out somehow. And in 2006 they lied to Hungarian citizens in their own words or in their own statement, lied to the European Union institutions about the state of the economy anyway, and if we are talking about tax increases and reductions, they also lied about the fact that VAT is being reduced. VAT was reduced by 5 percent before the election, which was passed by law, and then re-raised by 5 percent after the election. This, by the way, is a very interesting way of saying that since prices were not reduced after the 5% reduction, after the 5% increase, or after the VAT rate was raised by 5 percentage points to 20 per cent and then increased by 5 per cent, consumers could have lost almost 10 per cent on this. I think there was even a separate socialist trenchman, if I remember what Attila Mesterházy was driving here in our benches, and looked where, what prices there were, but it didn't work out, unfortunately. After all, 2006 was a year of austerity, because the deficit, as in dilettant economic policy, was tried to be corrected by raising a lot of taxes, imposing restrictions, and the general government deficit in 2006 was 9.4 percent. So they managed to produce such a bad data by constantly raising and pressing taxes. Apparently, the restrictions and the tax increases did not have any effect, they could not solve the problems of the Hungarian economy. In 2008, when the global economic crisis came in, economic growth almost disappeared, taxes were raised, restrictions were applied, and Ferenc Gyurcsány had statements even in 2008, after it appeared that there was a problem in America, that it would actually stop at the borders of Europe, so there would be no problem. So you could still see the skill. The problem was not only that domestic businesses were strangled and the capacity of businesses was obviously lost, and the tax increases obviously reduced consumption, but also that they lied about these measures constantly. Ferenc Gyurcsány announced dozens of measures in 2006-2010, several programmes and none of them could be implemented. Thus, both businesses and obviously the people's trust has been completely lost by the Balliberal Government. However, this must have had a negative impact on the economy again. In addition, the Gyurcsánys preferred foreign multinationals over Hungarian companies, they always wanted to favour them. This is something we always say, and it is interesting that this is always the case on the left, so I would like to quote a recent article that was written on a opposition portal, not a right-wing journalist:, Even in the mid-2000s, even before the crisis of the Gyurcsány government, the left has lost its dominant role in national capital, and this is not to a small extent due to the fact that left-wing economic policy was formed by the power alliance of technocratic politicians and transnational capital, from which an increasing share of national capital was fed up. This was written perhaps a month ago on one of the opposition portals. So how much the left-wing and Gyurcsány government served multinational capital and multinational companies is clearly visible, and it can be seen exactly how the national companies or Hungarian companies have otherwise sided with them, how they have lost their credit in the eyes of Hungarian companies. The result of the unsuccessful sac policy was that the Hungarian budget practically collapsed before the crisis, and they did not know how to solve the problem, and simply had to borrow IMF loans. I believe that exactly EUR 20 billion of credit lines have been taken from the IMF and the EU, and EUR 14,3 billion of it has been drawn up, which, by the way, was to be repaid by the Orbán government between 2011 and 2016. As I said, the general government deficit was on average 6.5 percent between 2002-2010, one of the consequences of which is that the government debt, which has already been said by several people, has increased from 53 per cent to 83 per cent, is the government debt-to-GDP ratio, and is sometimes thrown in here by opposition representatives, how the government debt has developed nominally over the past eight years. It is also worth looking at how it turned out between 2002 and 2010: the Hungarian government debt increased from EUR 41 billion to EUR 78 billion in nominal terms, which means that the government debt was practically doubled even if I count nominally; all of this, by the way, between 2002 and 2007, the economic environment in the world was essentially positive. So this was the excellent result of the socialists. What is happening today or what has happened since then: from 83% of the public debt, it seems that by the end of the year, it is projected to be below 70 percent. I think that this is a huge achievement of the current cabinet, and we have come to this situation, as Mr Secretary of State said after 2010 we did not want to collect the money on the people that could, by the way, stabilise the economy, but we have included multinational companies in the burden-sharing process with the sector's special taxes. Since then, the government's philosophy and our philosophy has been that basically the expansion of the taxing layer, the whitening of the economy, will give the budget more revenue resources, and we will obviously be able to gradually increase wages and gradually develop the country. [[18.40]] I think some more data is worth telling you, which has also been said. Today, the economy is growing at a record rate, but the latest quarterly data show a 5.2 percent seasonally adjusted GDP growth of 5.2 percent. This is a record for the last 20 years, by the way. Since 2010, 800 000 new jobs have been created, which means that the employment rate has reached almost 70%, unemployment has fallen from 12.5 percent to 3.5 percent and real wages have increased by more than 40 percent. The net average earnings, by the way, if we add family tax incentives, have increased by more than 70 percent since 2010, and the minimum wage has doubled, I think that in the morning Mr. Secretary of State spoke in quite detail about how the change in the minimum wage affected the lower sections of Hungarian society. And Hungary has achieved this by keeping the general government deficit below 3 per cent for practically seven years. So we did not build our economic policy on austerity and tax increases, but reduced the burden on businesses and Hungarian people so that businesses could develop and Hungarian people could consume more and spend more. And if this money spins back into the economy, it obviously strengthens the Hungarian economy with exponential force. Let me tell you one last thing. Not long ago, professors from a university in New York put together a list. A list that included the name of Ferenc Gyurcsány, the list of the world's most harmful leaders, is interesting to say. This led to the fact that its governance affected the growth of the Hungarian economy by about 1-1.5 percent a year. This means that, if we do not look at the fact that they have taken credit, if we add up this backward growth, they have caused the Hungarian people thousands of billions of HUF damage. If we are in an exceptional position to talk in 2019 about which sector to provide more resources, I think it is worth assessing this situation. Thank God, the country is in a very good budget position, but Fidesz not only decides which line it is giving more money to, but we have always asked for people's opinions, because through national consultations we have also asked the population about the family protection action plan or certain points of the economic protection action plan, and taking this into account the government's 2020 budget. So I would like to ask everyone to support Hungary's new budget as much as possible. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-20-132	Thank you very much, Mr László Böröcz. I give the floor to Vice-President Tamás Sneider, Jobbik Group.
u2019-06-20-133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Presents, I am a little sorry that László Böröcz's speech was addressed to the left, but the left is not here, so they could not learn from these things, although we can agree on a lot of things regarding the governance that was characterized by Hungary at the time. But we must add that we do not have a better view of current governance. Others are the differences, other attitudes obviously characterize the current governance, but the fact that the country is not going in the right direction, we feel that we have been able to say it from the previous eight years and we can say it from the present nine years. Obviously, we are not talking about a budget ten years ago, we are talking about the current budget. Listening to the debate today, it was clear that there is a strong optimism on the part of government representatives in many cases, also at local level. I'm only going to point out one, because it gives me an example of what we're proposing. I listened to Congressman Zsolt Becsó who is no longer here in connection with the county of Nógrád, and he has put very optimistic signals for the last nine years, while the GDP ratio of the county of Nógrád is 43 percent compared to the Hungarian ratio at the moment, and belongs to the very last region. In Bulgaria, there is a region of 281 in the European Union, which is the poorest region and which is exactly what the county of Nógrád boasts. It wasn't, by the way, I have to add nine or twenty years ago, of course. This has been a significant result of the past nine years. Just to show you what this is all about: I looked at how many housing permits were granted in 2017 in cities like North East Hungary, and I see that in Miskolc 395 2017, there was no such degree of construction at that time, in Eger 258, in Nyíregyháza 616. And how much do you think was in Salgótarján? It would be nice to have an interactive conversation like this, but I can't, but I'll tell you this: three. So I think I've told you everything about the state of Nógrád County, while, by the way, the state of the county that is really the largest colonial line in the entire European Union has been painted beautifully, because this government, this country, this community, has actually got it there. And that's where I'm right to think that we're very happy that the government is giving 90 million forints to a village development program, but if we divide it into about 2,500 settlements where it's supposed to be distributed, that's 35 million forints. 35 million forints is worth nothing, I must add, in the life of no settlement, they may be able to build a playground, and the story has taken place. What we see constantly, gradually, is that you do not have a real rural policy, basically multinational companies are being relocated to one area, which attracts the population, thus strengthening the removal of the workforce still in the countryside, but there are no small and medium-sized enterprises on the ground. And the government doesn't take the steps to create jobs, and I don't mean community service. Just a very quick example: if we had already started what we had long demanded that an old-age home development programme be launched in the villages, then, please, we could provide care to at least 10,000 old people; 30 000 people are waiting to get into this care, but many more people would otherwise, and we would give jobs to 4,000 people in the villages. I am sure that this HUF 90 billion, which will be spent, will not cost 4,000 people for long, long decades because old people will be as long as human beings live on Earth to give jobs in the coming period. And, yes, unfortunately, it is necessary to outline a terrible vision when you see that now it is only 10 percent of the Hungarian settlements where every third-fourth house is collapsing, it is literally collapsing, and in 20 years, 60 percent of the settlement will be where every third house will collapse. Hungary will become a farmland world! So, here we have huge, serious questions. But actually, what I wanted to talk about is the pension system, because it's more my business, and I've been dealing with it for 16 years, and everyone knows that Jobbik's very important demand is for men to have the opportunity to do what women have to do after 40 years of employment, if they choose, if they think they can retire. Then, of course, you can go back to the labour market, because the government has taken measures that allow you to go back to the labour market relatively easily and positively. I could agree to what's wrong with this system, but I'm not going to go into the details of how to fix it anyway. But the point is that you have not replaced him for nine years now, since the institution of early retirement has been abolished in Europe in an unprecedented and unique manner. And that's the most painful thing for millions of the worst Hungarian men. How come you can't finally understand the Members of Parliament, who, of course, don't do this kind of work, how you can't get the 150-pound patient off the 10th floor because the elevator doesn't work or the fourth floor because there's no elevator for the paramedics? ! Where can you imagine that? [[18.50]] Where can you imagine that? Where can you imagine the 65-year-old firefighter running up to the 10th floor with 30-pound equipment? This is the most cruel at present in Hungary, in the Orbán system, which leaks most into everyday life. We would very much like for them to take this huge and burning problem seriously now, not to send men to their deaths, practically before retirement. We've talked about this several times. Obviously, this has a financial implications, of course, and we know that it is not too little, but I must add that we would not go away either, and we are not thinking about a system where everyone suddenly gets it, but we obviously have to imagine a gradual introduction of this system in some way in the coming period. And I'm gonna keep it quiet, so no one says there's a wave of pension increases in Europe, because there isn't. Some are raised, some are reduced. Let's not forget: in Poland, the retirement age has been reduced, in Croatia, in Portugal, it is exactly the 40 years, and the system that I have just said is in place, and men can retire after 40 years. In Italy, a somewhat humorous pension system has just been introduced, in the Hungarian translation, to allow people who are 100 years old to retire, so that they can retire with a work relationship of up to 35 to 38 years. It's an interesting and maybe a little complicated system all of a sudden. I just want to give you the examples or France, where the retirement age has also been reduced, that it is not unique at all to introduce this either in Hungary or in Hungary. Let us, Jobbik, have a lot of e-mails and requests written down by men in amazing situations, and let me quote a few, preferably the shortest ones. One of the gentlemen writes: "I'm starting my 49th year in the world of work, of which 30 years of continuous three shifts, 46 years in a workplace in the ceramic industry. Now, as a rehab employee, I'm there for four hours, my organization gave up, another year and a half to the increased retirement age. I have every chance of not being worth it. Do you need more reasons? . Another man: - 43 years of MÁV physical work. From the age of four, the mother died when she was young. Five more years to retirement when I get there. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to point out in particular the amazing discriminatory situation affecting men that if a man raises his children, because something has happened, here specializes in a misfortune, a death, and raises three children or any number of children, that man and his children, because even if he is, according to you, die, because he is 50 or 60 years old, but those little children who go to school don't get those subsidies as if they were raised by a mother, now, that's the chimp word for the whole system they've built. Ten thousand ten thousand! There is a man almost round in Hungary who, for some reason, raises his own two, three and four children, because I have collected them, not one or two children, and they cannot use the opportunities that a woman, thank God, can live with, and, of course, her children can raise from the increased amount or tax, contributions, and others can raise in the coming period. I could read a few of them, I don't have much time, so I'd like to take that off the table. I would like to talk very briefly about the pension system itself for hours, obviously, that it is clearly visible, and many others here in the benches have said that it has started, to a very serious extent, pensioners' poverty. This is due to the fact that the real value of pensions does not follow the real value of wages, and it is below the rate of pension increase in Hungary, rather than the real value. After all, we are not counting on a pension increase based on what a pensioner consumes, what products he consumes, that his food, that medicine is more important than the fact that the price of Lamborghini increases by 3 percent in a given year or that of similar things. According to general inflation, we are raising these pensions, which in Hungarian means nothing more than every year, we see a much higher increase in food, now 5.6, not 2.9 than pensions, and I can still tell you things. Every year, the purchasing value of pensions is gradually reduced by 1-2 percent. That'll be 10 to 20 percent in ten years. With a pension of 60,000 and 80,000 forints, imagine where the poor poor people who retired with such a low pension are going down and the real value of these pensions is constantly falling! Therefore, Jobbik's very strong demand for a new pension system, a differentiated pension system, must be increased to a greater extent than the value of the millions of HUF pensions you have created. After all, you introduced it, once again in a unique way in Europe, only the Hungarian curiosities are listed, that the institution of the pension ceiling has been abolished. From this point on, the highest pension is now HUF 3 million, if I calculated correctly, in six years the luckiest person in Hungary will receive a monthly pension of HUF 10 million. On the other side, it will be that someone is 50-60 thousand forints or 28 500 forints because we have not raised it, even since then, this is also our demand that it is really unsustainable, so someone will receive such an amazing low pension and on the other side will receive a monthly pension of up to 10 million forints. We don't want to build a world like this. I know that few of my fellow Members are here, but I think they can feel some of what I am talking about and see such old people in their own environment, people who have fallen into work in villages, cities, after 40-50 years of work and other jobs. Let's help them, let's not leave them alone. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-20-134	Thank you, Mr. Tamás Sneider, Vice President. It's a two-minute lap. First, I give the floor to right-hand congressman Balázs Ander.
u2019-06-20-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member from Vinna spoke with great enthusiasm and expertise about vocational training issues, adult education, issues of early school leaving. But what we need to see is that by the time these young people get into the vocational training system, we will be suffering primary socialisation losses, the whole of society, in particular, which the world of public education can no longer remedy at that time. So the increase in scholarships is very good, for example, we can support this with a full chest width. But in order to be able to come up with a normal, comprehensive solution here, we need to focus on the time before, the beginning of life. The name of economist James Heckman, Nobel Prize winner, must have something to say to my fellow Member. He said that investment in education will be reduced in proportion to time, and in the case of students with a low family background index, my fellow Member from the eastern part of the country understands exactly what I am talking about, so in the case of students with a low family background index, this decline is very, very steep as time progresses. So we should intervene at an early stage, and we also have an amendment to the budget, such as the increased support of the Commissioner's children's homes and the support of the school programme. Teachers who work in schools actually do fire-fighting work, and in many cases they prevent such disintegrating, enigmatic areas as you or I from sinking beyond saving. I'm asking why the government doesn't support these initiatives properly and to a greater extent. We also found the other foot from which it could be taken, for example, the making of the Budapest-Belgrád railway that never returns is such a thing, or it could be taken away from government communication costs to these socially much more pressing questions. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-20-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Szűcs for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2019-06-20-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, It's been a long time, it's been a long time. Maybe it wasn't true. Congressman Szilágyi said that the budgets of the last few years have been amended so many times that they do not like it, nor do they have a number. Then let's look at the numbers. The last four budgets have been amended seven times: 2015 has been revised four times, but always in a positive way in advance, 2016 once, 2017 twice, and 2018 not once, Member. Those are the facts. [[19.00]] So anyone who has spent some time in this House knows that before 2010, the budgets already in place have been substantially amended several times. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] And if we remember, the closing accounting laws have arranged for the annual budget so much that I would rather not talk about it, because a salad law package was submitted by the then government, the Socialist-Free Democratic Government, so that we would rather not talk about how many times and to what extent the law was amended backwards through the closure of the budget. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] And I would just like to tell Dániel Z. Carpathian that we should stay and agree that when public employment was introduced by the government, it was necessary to bring these people back to the world of work in some way. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: I said the same thing! That's what I said!]] And if we can agree on that, then let's say that at the moment more than half of them have gone from public employment to regular employment, and those who are there are there for a reason, and this year's budget and next year's budget are counting on them for a decreasing amount. So these were nice, but it wasn't true that I had to say any sentences about your comments. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-20-138	Thank you, Congressman. Then we'll go back to the normal speeches. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Bartos.
u2019-06-20-139	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to a whole new element of the budget, and even to a programme in which we are world leaders, because I would like to say a few words about an investment, investment in a future that really concerns our young people, their knowledge, their future prosperity, and this is the implementation of the foreign language strategy 2019-2027, and one of its elements, a foreign language learning programme that starts in the second period of the 2019-20 academic year, so in the summer of 2020. What we see and know is that we live in a modern, accelerated, globalised world, in which, if we have to describe it in one word, there is a real competition that we also perceive in our daily lives, and this competition will only increase in the future, and our children, our young people, are increasingly affected. In this world, what can be clinging to them and protecting them as shields, which can provide security, is knowledge, and in order for them to thrive in the world, to establish relationships, to be able to function well in accelerated market conditions, and that is language knowledge. In 2017, a European data collection took place, and according to their own declaration only 42% of the adult population in Hungary speaks at least one foreign language at an acceptable level. If we look at the fact that this was 25 percent in 2007, we can see a significant improvement, but even this 42 percent is the lowest in the European Union, and on this level we are one of the countries in the back row. This is worth highlighting, because this survey is based on its own declaration, and one of the important elements of language knowledge, language use, and language communication is self-confidence, that we dare to speak, that we can overcome the language communication barriers that are within us, which is not a miracle, because we have a unique, wonderful, beautiful mother tongue, but it makes it difficult to communicate with others, because we have to learn other people's mother tongue, so it is certainly true, and somehow in us Hungarians, there is a stay when speaking in a foreign language. I also think the government's decision in April is very good, according to which all young people from the 9th and 11th grade who study in vocational schools and high schools can participate in a two-week study programme abroad, i.e. nearly 140 thousand young people. Several opinions have been submitted on the programme. One of the elements of this program is, in my opinion, only that it strengthens language knowledge, confidence in language use, and the other very important element is that it develops a positive emotional relationship with the first learned foreign language, because that is what the program applies to, and in fact, positive emotional attachment is very important, because if we do our job, study, any task that falls on us, then we can achieve much greater results, we will be much more successful if we do it in a good mood. So the great advantage and opportunity of this language program is that it motivates young people to learn their language, because we ourselves have experienced it in our student years, and who is now dealing with language, he feels on his own skin that language learning is a hard work, it requires almost everyday energy investment, and that if we develop this positive attitude in our young people, this motivation, then they will want to deal with the language. This is why the government has decided that foreign language learning can be used in two instalments, a total of one month in the 9th grade, defined in two weeks and in the 11th grade, can be spent abroad for a total of one month. And what countries can they participate in and which foreign languages? The first learned foreign languages, English, French, German and Chinese from 2014 onwards, so young people can travel to China as a destination country and to the United Kingdom, Ireland, Malta, Germany, France and Austria in the European Union. And how can you participate in this? I also think it is important to say this because the pre-registration will definitely start in the autumn, in October-November. It is possible to participate in a group in the organisation of the school, which opens up two ways to learn languages: on the one hand, with the participation of vocational institutions outside, partner schools, the language program of the Hungarian and foreign professional institutions can be implemented to help young people learn languages and strengthen their language skills; on the other hand, if the home school offers a foreign language school program for their young people. I think that the younger generation, the 9th graders, will rather choose this, but I also assume that the 11th graders will undertake to start on their own, because there is also a way to learn individual languages when a young person chooses a language school in the target countries and there he can use the language and culture programs offered by the language school. It is also important to highlight the cultural side of the programme, because in order to understand each other, to be able to thrive in other countries, to speak to the people there, it is not negligible that we know each other, that we know each other's cultures, because if we are open to each other, there will also be a kind of acceptance, and this will be the key to the common success experiences, the common results. The programme, as my fellow Members can see, is budgeted at HUF 35 billion. This is a top-up amount, so it can change according to the needs. That is what I wanted to bring to my fellow Members. I think that this is a huge investment, one of the biggest investments in the future in order for our young people to thrive. It seems to me that this is one of the elements of a system that is constantly building and recovering, because it is only part of the foreign language strategy, and that, if my fellow Members recall, it is for the sake of strengthening language skills and obtaining language examination that the first successful language examination fee can be reclaimed, or even for the language learning student loan that the government recently announced and the credit programme for achieving a successful language exam for young people. [[19.10]] Thank you very much for your attention, and I also encourage my fellow Members to encourage people coming to you to participate in the programme. I believe that this will bring real joy and real success to our young people, an opportunity to learn about other countries, cultures and new friendships, to be more confident and to return home and to build their careers and privacy. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties and sporadic applause from the benches of Jobbik. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea, quoted as the pearl of the Fidesz!]]
u2019-06-20-140	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congressman Anita Potocskanyány Kőrösi.
u2019-06-20-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Now, in the 26th hour of the debate, because it is almost over today, but listening to both pro-government and opposition speeches, I say that a very, very good debate has emerged on several topics, and although I wanted to talk about the foreign language strategy as a third, my fellow Member Mónika Bartos encouraged me to talk about it for the first time because I think it is very important, and I think that this has really come up today in a speech that brought up this foreign language learning, which is an important point of the previously announced foreign language strategy. However, I would like to draw attention to another related topic, and this is a measure to be introduced from 2020 to link university admission to B2 language exams in high school students, so that the existence of this language exam will be a condition for entering the university, and that is why I think that this measure is a little late, because it will start next year. I also see another disadvantage, if it is at all a disadvantage, that with this step, children and young people may actually be able to graduate abroad, and they may be able to start a family out of the country, so that the chances of emigration continue to ring with these young people. Of course, it is very important to speak in a foreign language. My two children can only watch films and series in foreign languages, and the knowledge of foreign languages is really very important. However, not everyone is given the opportunity to get this B2 language exam by September 2020, so I wanted to draw attention to this because very little has been said about it. Although it has already been said that this may be pushed, we have learned the government's position, the position of the EMMI, that there have been many, many years of preparation, why young people have not started learning language in time, and the consequences will be here. Only when tens of thousands of young people are going to fall out of higher education will the government obviously have to deal with the consequences of that, both for college students and for high school students. The other topic, which has already been addressed by several people, and I have already said it in the underlying debate on the Finance Act, is the part concerning municipalities. My fellow Member, Mr Lajos Szűcs, has just mentioned the reduction in the number of public workers, and I would like to say the impact of this on the municipalities, because several municipalities have invested tens of millions in public employment, and now there is no one to work with these machines. Several mayors complain that, unfortunately, they are no longer able to employ me in public employment, because they have gone to the primary labour market, which I should be very pleased with, but I would now like to highlight this issue from a municipal point of view. These investments have remained in the fields, whether in the production of elder crops, and there have been several such crops, but there is no one to remove them, because on a market basis the municipalities are no longer able to employ them, and these investments are virtually left behind. So we are very happy that some of the public workers have reached the primary labour market, not a question, that was the aim of this programme, so it can be seen that this has been achieved, but there are local authorities standing there that they can no longer use these investments. And that is the problem that I would like to draw your attention to, because let's face it, the municipalities cannot finance it from their own resources, from their tax revenues. And another question, also regarding the municipalities, which would otherwise be linked to what was said in the tax law debate, is the existence of the public utility tax, at all, its validity. It can now be seen that the water utility service is, to this day, a mandatory task for the municipalities, so that, by the way, a large part of these pipelines, in fact, have been owned by the State in recent years. So the municipalities no longer act as owners, but in the Mötv. this remains as a mandatory task. And what does that have to do with the power lines tax? Obviously, the fact that these companies that operate these utilities, the operators of the water utility networks, pay this not even a small amount of money in the 2020 budget, plan for a utility tax of HUF 54 billion, obviously the gas and everything in it, but now let's just talk about the operation of the water utility network, they pay this tax, such as maintenance, renovations, or we can even say that this tax burden is going away from the workers working there, and this is the amount that they could otherwise use for these purposes. And it is also problematic because the local authorities receive a signal from the population if there is a failure in the utility system, and then the municipalities... I know they don't own these power lines, but the law didn't, and so did waste management as a mandatory task, so that NHKV Zrt. did. Doing his job as he does, sometimes the work we see in the field of waste management leaves more to be desired. So what's the municipality supposed to do? You have to reach into his pocket. And now I would like to refer you back to a word that I don't think has been said in the two days, and I'm sorry if it's said and I wasn't paying attention, and that's a reduction in the rent. Many years ago, on the part of the Fidesz government, if I remember correctly, the 2010 campaign was a campaign for reducing the rent... [[For signal:]] Or "14," I'm sorry, I misremembered. So, right here, at these, for example, in the water utility network or even in the field of waste management, we can see that these charges have been frozen at those prices. So, indeed, the population may have experienced a saving on their account in that very colorful frame, but what happens? Since these works, these renovations, can no longer be carried out with those amounts, it is possible that in these companies, there is certainly no way that workers can be caught up in wages, and thus these companies will remain without employees, as many sectors do. And I'd like to turn to the next topic, and this is Balaton, because everyone's shorthanded there, and the caterers are shorthanded. Not in one case, when we walk down Lake Balaton, we find more signs, that we are looking for a waitress, a chef, a pizza delivery guy, we pick up the menu itself, which these catering units offer. So you can see the labour shortage that has also been achieved in Lake Balaton, because there is certainly no way that service providers can provide workers with a competitive income. And while it used to be that only in winter did these catering professionals go out to work in the ski havens, they don't come back for the summer season, and so they are family businesses, family businesses that have been operating for several years will be able to close the gate, which I don't want because there's nothing more delicious than a homemade meal. I hope that there will be a shift in this, but in this budget we do not see the traces of this in order to attract these outside workers to come back and work here in Hungary and provide the services we have trained them for at home. [[19.20]] These professionals have acquired their secondary or higher education qualifications at home, in the Hungarian education system, and are currently being used out there. Yes, they bring home some of their income, because the families, children and mothers are torn apart, the father works outside; they bring home this income, indeed, most of it will be spent at home, but the expertise that they have taken out with them would be the best place for us in Hungary. I trust what I said in the tax laws debate: positive shifts by simplifying tax laws could at last be changes that provide a perspective for workers working outside or not paid at home. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-20-142	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now it is possible to make two-minute comments. First, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Rig.
u2019-06-20-143	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In the first round, I would like to make a small smile on bitter faces, because when politicians and secretary of state talk about average earnings or average wage increases, Hofi always reminds me of me, who, being bald, said that I was bald, at least my wife had hair to the shoulder, and I was supposed to have my hair to the ears. You always have to look at it and look at it as an individual or as an expert on what it causes; it may be that the salary of the staff has increased, but people living in physical work and wages have not increased so much. Vocational training is very important, important, but we are in a circular vitiosus, in a vicious circle. I had the pleasure of taking the 5.5 nurse's exam to attend the graduation of students, and I saw a shocking figure that the principal said: the newly graduated 5.5 nurses asked for a europass certificate, which means that they are imagining their future in Germany or England, and here I would refer back to Mrs. Potocska's speech. My colleague Szilágyi mentioned in vitro treatments that very many families do not have access to them, as they cost such costs. It is true that the state has created a state monopoly on extrauterine inseminations, but not every treatment can be included in this, because here, as the years progress, they all fall out of treatment and have destroyed well-provoked, fully functioning private sectors that have benefited from state quotas that are now unable to carry out such treatments. So when you take out a subject, you always have to look at it in its entirety and stay on the ground of reality. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-20-144	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Victor Vinnai in two minutes.
u2019-06-20-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Two minutes is very short, but let me respond to public employment and the comments of Dániel Z. Carpathian at that time. We have brought the employees of public employment back to the world of work, as Lajos Szűcs said, their number is now halved. In North-East Hungary, where it was very difficult to enter the labour market, you must have heard that there was 20-25 percent unemployment between 2002 and 2010. There are two forms of public employment, so I do not understand what Mrs Potocskat is saying, because in public employment the municipalities... There are longer periods when the municipalities keep the settlement in order with unskilled public workers, and there is the small-region Start work programme when they do production activities, for example, they produce cucumbers, they acquire machines, and they can do this because they do it in their own fields with public employment, but they can do it with other workers. It would be worth initiating an open debate on this, how to get public employment, because we have always said that this is a temporary solution and that it consumes budgetary resources to move it to the primary labour market. Let's not forget, please, that I was one of those government commissioners in the first term, 38 thousand public employees in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County that there were almost 100,000 people at national level in winter training programmes. So we wanted to give training anyway, because it was the 21st. This is what it is about: vocational training, higher education, high school. It is necessary to acquire skills for the individual to prevail on the labour market, and if the individual prevails on the labour market, that community and his family are successful, and if his family is successful, that community or settlement can also be successful. It is worth arguing about, not that economic policy is good, tax policy is good, employment policy is good, because, as Mr Secretary of State said, these achievements, which he has listed, justify us that we are going in the right direction either with economic policy or with tax policy or with employment policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-20-146	Thank you, Congressman. Now we're going back to normal comments. I give the floor to Congressman Peter Agh.
u2019-06-20-147	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In the course of the general debate so far, there have been many approaches to the bill before us and its positive effects. It is important to point out that despite negative global economic developments, the European economy is slowing down, and despite the fact that commercial tensions seem to be perpetuating, Hungary is still a stable and one of the most dynamic growth economies in Europe. All we have to do is look at some of the highlights. The number of people employed is already 4.5 million, while we can see the lowest unemployment rate since the change of regime, which is 3.5 percent. Under deteriorating external market conditions, the growth of the Hungarian economy could still be 2 percentage points higher than the average growth in Europe next year, and the pace of GPD growth is expected to continue to be around 4 percent in 2020. If this is not enough, let us continue to look at the positive effects of next year's budget. The year 2020 will be a year of support for families, which will also be drawn up fully from the draft budget for next year. All measures of the family protection action plan, such as baby shower support, CSOK's preferential loan for real estate expansion, the car shopping program of large families, or the kindergarten constructions, will be available. Let us not forget the income tax exemption that will enter into force from 1 January for mothers with four children, as well as grandparents' children, and the full free textbook supply from the 2020-21 academic year. In addition to the many positive action plans for the protection of families and the protection of the economy, which, by the way, is unique throughout Europe, the government has not forgotten a question that concerns all of us, and this is the issue of safe living and safe everyday life. Although many issues have been discussed, if you will allow me, I would nevertheless like to look a little more closely at the chapter on security expenditure in the 2020 budget, as we Hungarians have repeatedly expressed our firm position that everyday security is one of the most important issues for us. I am convinced that security is one of the most fundamental prerequisites for the growth of the Hungarian nation. Without security, there is no predictable future, no sense of security in everyday life, and people must live in fear. In order to avoid this and to protect our achievements, the government will focus even more on spending on defence and public security in next year's budget. How much does that mean? I think that there is an unprecedented amount of money, as in 2020 there will be 723 billion forints more for defence and law enforcement expenditure. Why is that necessary? Hungary has already learned once in 2015 what it is like to have hundreds of thousands of aliens break into our country without identification on the green border, looting farmers' crops, uncoordinated wandering through our lands, roads and highways, and filling the country with garbage wherever they appear. Thanks to the Government and Prime Minister of Hungary in Europe, we Hungarians were the first to act in order to effectively respond to the fight against illegal migration. [[19.30]] We have not had long and endless negotiations, we have not meditated for months, for years on possible solutions, and we Hungarians have not considered the inclusion of immigrants as much as possible and the distribution of immigrants among Member States to be the right way out of this crisis. We said that we would take in all those in need of protection, but that should take place in accordance with the relevant international treaties and conventions, not by letting anyone knocking on the door, even if months later it turns out that he was a terrorist of the Islamic State, or that he was carrying out a terrorist act in Western Europe. I think there are plenty of examples. The immigration crisis in Europe has not ended; it will remain one of the most important issues of the European Union community in the next decade. Migration is not an opportunity for us, as we have heard from Western Europe, but a cultural, economic and public security risk, which is why the significant budgetary increase mentioned above is taking place. Resources for defence will double compared to 2010. Before anyone thinks that safety is an automatic, self-evident state, it is very wrong. Those who served in the field of police and defence have fought hard and hard to ensure that Hungary is a safe country where it is safe to go out on the streets, as opposed to the terror threat in Western Europe. However, these positive effects are clearly due to the fact that we will spend 83 percent more on law enforcement in 2020 than in the year of the fall of the Gyurcsány-Bajna era. Without the need for completeness, I would just like to highlight some organisations. 7 billion more for the police, 3.5 billion more for the National Directorate-General for Disaster Protection, 1 billion more for the National Security Service, but in 2020 the National Defence Service, the prison execution, the Counter-Terrorism, Information and Crime Analysis Centre, also known as the TIBEK and the newly established body, the National Foreign Police Directorate. It is clear that the Government of Hungary takes the security of Hungarian people seriously and the protection of our borders and the preservation of our national sovereignty. However, beyond the protection of borders, we cannot go without saying the drastic reduction in the number of crimes compared to 2010 due to years of conscious economic policy and law enforcement policy. While at the end of the Gyurcsány-Bajnai era in 2010, the number of recorded crimes was 428 785, by 2018, this number decreased to 186 724. This is nothing more than a 56.5 percent decrease, which is clearly due to the expert work of the Ministry of Interior and its related bodies and to the appropriate financial support of the government. We can also be proud that our policemen are no longer breaking down with service vehicles on the side of the road because the fleet would be so old. We can say that the working conditions of law enforcement workers have also improved significantly in recent years, and that the area's motor pool is equipped with new quality cars, which contribute to effective work. Ensuring a continuous public police presence is one of the pillars of maintaining public security. In order to ensure that this is always done properly and in the necessary areas, continuous contacts with local authorities and the organisation of public security conciliation forums and consultations are of particular importance. I would like to thank the officers, the vigilantes, who are serving in my constituency. Thanks to their hard and sacrifice, North Vas County is a safe part of the country. If anyone looks at the public criminal data available on the police's website, it is clear that the police work in my constituency is effective, as the number of crimes is significantly lower than at certain points in the country thanks to their activities. I think that, given what has been said, we can agree without debate that Hungary is a safe country. It is safe, since many years of hard work have allowed us to reduce the number of crimes to a fraction. In a unique way, we have been able to stop illegal immigration in Europe in a very short period of time, and on the basis of the recognition of their work, the police and defence are at a higher level in society than ever before. Each research, each poll, shows that the reputation of the military, the uniformed bodies, is unprecedented. Thank you for this service in the field of law enforcement and defence. Finally, in conclusion, I think that Hungary's budget for next year is again a well-thought-out and stable budget, which pays particular attention to small settlements, to the dynamic growth of our economy, to the maintenance and continuous development of our institutional system, and, last but not least, to the preservation of our security, to the protection of Hungarian people and tourists. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-20-148	Thank you, Congressman. On a two-minute comment, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpat.
u2019-06-20-149	Mr President, Dear House, A very important factor has not yet been mentioned on this day. While there are debates about budget figures, items, sometimes I feel like the people behind them are just barcodes, and I'll tell you why I think that. Today, I was in front of the Curia, where foreign exchange credit victims demonstrated that an amazing, unacceptable decision had been made for them, and although they hoped to assist foreign court decisions, they should see that there is no help for them under domestic conditions, and indeed the EBRD pact of this government, which has a serious impact on budgetary figures, still exists to this day. I would like to reiterate this pact that it is equivalent to the arming of the government to those banks which were allegedly subject to a special tax, but allowed to pass on this special tax, which was allegedly subject to a transaction duty, but allowed this transaction duty to pass on, and in this pact it also undertook not to impose additional burdens on the affected members of the banking system for the benefit of the victims. That is why I would like to call on the Government of Hungary, not only to break up the EBRD pact and in this spirit to amend the budget lines involved, but also to stand before the demonstrators, to look a government potenta or a representative in the eyes of those whose problems were not caused by this government alone, I do not wish to impose this exclusively on you, but the period called Balliberian and the representatives of the period from 2010 are jointly responsible, those who were in government positions, for this hell, because they have left those affected not only on the side of the road, but they have certainly helped you to fall into the abyss. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-06-20-150	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the pre-notified speakers. First in the order of application, Congressman Lajos Kepli receives the floor.
u2019-06-20-151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In my previous speech, I assessed the budget in terms of policy and environmental protection. As I said, this is my tenth budget debate here in Parliament, and it is also my last. We have tried every budget debate, and I have also tried to submit amendments for my constituency and for my settlement. In order not to break the tradition, I have, of course, done so now, confident that as much of these motions will be made as possible. I'd like to introduce these in a few minutes. You may think that a town on the shore of Lake Balaton, even a small town, is not struggling with financial problems, since it has the right tax revenue from tourism and other things. Unfortunately, this is not the case, or the city's leaders do not manage the resources available. In fact, a number of problems have been raised to me recently by the locals, which appear in these amendments, so I am here to convey to you the proposals of the Balatonalmád residents. What I think is a problem in almost all settlements in Hungary is the state of municipal roads. The settlement has a fairly large, extensive road network, the second largest road network in Veszprém County, and many times, in many places, these roads are quite critical, and it requires constant resources to repair these roads, to build sidewalks, and to provide precipitation water, which has become an increasing problem recently due to the sudden showers. Parking is also problematic, and it can't be solved in any other way than building a parking garage or an underground garage. In this regard, too, we have made our own proposal to allocate funds for this, as this is not a small item, especially in the budget of a settlement under 10,000 people. Of course, there are resources. We would like to have an appropriate amount of money available from any source in the next period. By the way, we took it from billions of government communications and regrouped it. [[19.40]] We always see ten, twenty billion coming into government communication. Then a few hundred million or a few billion forints, if any, for useful improvements that make the lives of tens of thousands of people, together with the agglomeration, easier, if any, why not find them? Or, for example, the covered market. There is no more significant city in Hungary today, where there is no market hall or market hall, where local residents can shop under normal conditions, regardless of weather. I do not think that these are such high demands on the part of the locals that would not be feasible. As I said, the area of the settlement is quite large, so we proposed the purchase of some electric buses, a motion from which the foundations of a local public transport could be established. Speaking of transport, the bus station in the centre of the village is quite retro, it reflects the atmosphere of the eighties, and its renovation and energy modernisation have been waiting for you for a long time, for which we have also made our motion on the proposal of the people of Balatonalmád. The constant problem is the replacement and migration of outdated drinking water pipes at the moment. Everyday, especially during the summer season, pipe breaks, which cause drinking water disruptions. Of course, this is part of a larger investment, as replacing outdated, ageing plumbing is a multi-annual process, where appropriate, and obviously cannot be implemented at the expense of a budget. Here we made a motion for a first step. I do not want to use much of our already limited time frame for this, but there are still items here that are also included in a settlement on the shore of Lake Balaton, which lives on tourism, are extremely important, such as pederkotras and public lighting. It is a scandal that we have to raise any more of this in order to have normal street lighting in a town on the shore of Lake Balaton, but unfortunately this is also necessary. Of course, infrastructure investments focus on a city centre, a city centre that is the location where local residents and tourists come together and are suitable for events. Of course, the design of this, the development of a cityscape, requires considerable resources. We have also made our own suggestions in this regard. Overall, we have repeatedly proposed to transfer funds for the benefit of the city of Balatonalmádi, which would improve the quality of life of the people there, not least tourism, as one of the most important sectors of the national economy, would also serve to develop, as as more guests arrive to the shore of Lake Balaton, to the city and, of course, spend as much money there, it is good not only for local people, not only for the Balatonalmádi, but also for the country's budget. Therefore, these investments will return, I think. I would ask my fellow government Members, Mr Secretary of State, to accept these proposals by translating them to the authorities. Thank you again for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-06-20-152	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Péter Benő Banai now wishes to reply.
u2019-06-20-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I promise to be brief at this late hour, but Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát's expression that we consider people to be numbers behind the budget figures. That's kind of how the congressman put it. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Sometimes I get the feeling, yes!]] Allow me to rebut this with concrete measures. Minister Varga, in his exposé, adopted the 2020 budget bill as a budget for support for families by saying that the child is the first for us. If you look at how many measures the government has taken in the area of family support, how many measures the Parliament has adopted on the government's proposal and how they focus on improving the financial situation of families having children, I think that this statement, which the Member said, can be nuanced. If we look at the assistance and assistance the government has provided to families who buy new apartments and build houses, then I think it is possible to nuance the claim again. But if we look at our tax system, it is precisely the taxes mentioned by the Member, the so-called crisis taxes in 2010, the restructuring of the tax system, as part of which the key to personal income tax in Europe is one of the lowest, as part of which there is a family benefit, I think it can be seen in the tax system that people are at the heart of economic policy. Our primary aim is to ensure that work and family primacy prevail in economic policy, including in budgetary policy. This is the situation of former foreign exchange credentials, a Member of the Council, who has a special priority in this area. First of all, I have to say that thank God had currency credences, because now less than 1 percent of the total loan is in foreign currency. [[Z. Kárpat Dániel: The same is paid in Forint!]] He was over 70 percent back in the day. But by confirming that they paid in HUF, we can now talk about the fact that a significant risk factor, exchange rate risk, could be knocked out of the system. If we look in Europe at the extent to which the population in other countries was indebted and the extent to which the foreign exchange debt was sold, we find not much, but some countries where there was a similar problem. That is why I say that Hungary and the Hungarian government and the central bank have acted in Europe in an international comparison with the new management in order to save the masses trapped in foreign exchange credit. I could list the measures, as Congressman knows: exchange rate barrier, forinting, National Asset Manager [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: It was a disaster!]] And the rest, and the rest. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Catastrophic!]] To mention only the latter, the National Asset Manager [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: That was the best!]] The government spent 160 billion forints on this. I think that this measure has succeeded in ensuring that people who, despite the various measures, could not keep their apartments in their own homes could stay at a very reduced price. Now the government has launched a program to buy these apartments at a discount [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Fragment price!]] and a significant number of stakeholders responded positively to this initiative. So I think that, in this respect, as part of economic policy and economic policy, the budget has taken measures that focus on man, and, I might add, I can say that it has done this responsibly, because in addition to the stability figures that determine the lives of all of us in the longer term, we have also managed to put it on a positive path. I hope that in 2020, this economic policy, which focuses on individuals, families, can be achieved with the stability of public finances and the reduction of public debt, with substantial economic growth. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-20-154	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm submitted a two-minute comment. You have the floor.
u2019-06-20-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I pressed a two-minute button because when Secretary of State Banai talks about helping foreign exchange credentials, I'm forced to argue with him because he's talking about a social group and a number of people he's helped. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: One tenth!]] one tenth, one tenth of all contracts. Minister of State Banai knows exactly the legislation he is talking about. For example, he's talking about the asset manager and his home purchase. Secretary of State, you didn't make one such case in your life when people asked for it. I've done a lot, believe me. No one in this House has seen more contracts or relationships than I do. There was not a tenth of the number of people who could make use of this and to know that those who could fit into the legislation were also mass rejecting the possibility of entering the asset manager at the time, even though they met all the conditions. There was no need to justify it, and the banks could have handled this completely arbitraryly. There was no legal consequence beyond the standard of rejection, and it was a crowd of people who could not benefit from it. In the case of the others, a large number of properties and evictions have already been auctioned. If you are open on this issue, just to be informed, I would be very happy to go into your office and present specific cases where the debtor and his family and the value of the property and the property were adequate, but the asset manager was overtaken by the State, they could no longer take in a very large number of beneficiaries, otherwise described by law. In doing so, these people could not be part of it. Now those who can buy it were only people in this state of grace. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[19.50]]
u2019-06-20-156	Thank you, Congresswoman. State Secretary Péter Benő Banai wishes to reply. You have the floor.
u2019-06-20-157	Thank you very much. However, I would like to note that the forinting has affected everyone, and that all the bodies involved have acted on the basis of court decisions. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: What rate?]] I also have to say that when we talk about budgets, we can remember a budget that we called the budget for bank accountability, because as part of this process, those involved, who, according to the court's decision, had money after the forints, received these funds. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: It's shameful.]] But you can remember these processes, and as a lawyer, you know what the courts have decided, what kind of legal unit decision has been made. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: They lied to the European Court of Justice!]] Please, Congresswoman, as a lawyer, take into account the frameworks created by the legislator [[Dr. Andrea Varga-Damm and Dániel Z. Carpathian: There was no intention.]] and according to court decisions, all those involved had to be taken into account. Thank you very much. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: There were no frames. With all due respect, there were no frames.]]
u2019-06-20-158	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpát.
u2019-06-20-159	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to express my insistence that barcodes are seen by the government in some cases behind the budget figures. Total social groups are excluded from this budget, which is the beneficiary of life opportunities. For example, Hungarian young people who are unable to put any CSOK-parts on the table are left out, for example, because the state support for housing savings is abolished by this government, so these young people have no chance of home creation. What I wanted to do in a very brief, 30 seconds. Secretary of State and many others bombed us with impressive GDP data two days ago, and I share that this is an outstanding figure at European level. However, I have asked you many times not only to talk about the performance of the multinational companies operating here, but also about the performance of the Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises sector. On this basis, either the NDP or any other indicator outside GDP, we have not heard a word. What I would like to see is the shift of government, say, towards an HDI, i.e. towards a human development index, which has an indicator impact on the quality of access to health, we know what this is like in Hungary, the environmental conditions, the availability of education, and, say, the free nature of the kindergarten, kindergarten system, if it were, but it isn't; we all know that. The reason why I would like to open Mr. Secretary's mind to this is because I know that there is a sensitivity to everything. But with GDP in itself, much about the Hungarian national economy was not told. As far as economic developments in Hungary are concerned, but as long as they allow the profits of foreign companies from Hungary to be untaxed, please allow us not to call their certificates exemplary. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-20-160	Thank you, Congressman. Congressman Lajos Rig has spoken. You have the floor.
u2019-06-20-161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll be quick in the closet. All I would like to add to the health budget is that if we raise it at nominal value, now with HUF 170 billion in 2020, I understand... [[Péter Banai Benő: 184!]] He spends 184 billion forints more on health than he did in 2019. The 2020 figures are always measured by 2019. Now, if we look at the health data for 2019, the accumulated debts of all hospitals, we can see that it is growing rapidly. If we look at changes in the health industry, pharmaceuticals and price increases, then this is the amount that the 2020 budget holds for the health budget, which is enough to keep life at a minimum, but not to make progress. I have said this once this week, and I believe that if we want to settle the health situation in the budget, we should stick to Minister Miklós Kásler's proposal for an enlargement of 1500 billion. I think it's good for the government, but it's of the greatest benefit to health workers and patients. Please, Secretary of State, try to fight this out at the cost of your lobbying. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-20-162	Thank you, Congressman. I ask my fellow Members, who wish to comment on the budget debate today. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate will be adjourned, and will continue from 8 a.m. tomorrow. This brings us to the end of today's agenda. We now have an after-the-meet speech. To speak after one agenda, Mr Lajos Kepli came forward with the title "Protecting the Created World." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-06-20-163	Thank you very much. The reason for my speech is the protection of animals, because at the moment there are countless terrible acts happening around the world, and unfortunately also in Hungary, where millions of animals are exposed to various forms of abuse, or simply suffering from a brutal act due to maintenance. And why is this happening? We began to rape the planet, which was gradually confused with progress; violence. To make good progress, we should have focused on quality rather than quantity. For some, life has become better, but for millions more bitter than ever. Humanity has broken into world domination, and as the planet rules, it has forgotten that it is only part of the biosphere, and it must also take into account other organisms. We've done a lot of innovations for our own convenience, but the consequences, I think, have been forgotten. And somewhere we've screwed up, I think, when our selfish interests made us forget about respect for animals that are part of nature and nature. There's a wave of extinction that hasn't happened in 65 million years since the dinosaurs died out. Experts estimate that about 137 species of plants, animals and insects die each year due to the destruction of rainforests, and in 2048, not in the far future, there will be more garbage in the oceans than fish, more plastic bottles will swim than fish. That's a pretty graphic picture, and it's pretty shocking for all of us. It is estimated that 25 percent of the world's total greenhouse gas emissions are caused by deforestation alone. When the trees in the forests die, carbon dioxide stored in the tree goes into the atmosphere, and in addition, instead of using the land to plant crops for the feeding of millions, at least 70 percent of the agricultural land and 45 percent of the land on the Earth are used for animal feeding or grazing. Yet, in the meantime, a billion people around the planet are driving their heads to sleep starved every single night. Not only does this large-scale livestock farming contribute to the acceleration of climate change, but the diet it covers, an unhealthy diet, leads to an overweight yet malnourished population worldwide. And, of course, it should not be forgotten that these animals are kept under conditions that are later killed for their meat, which are completely inhumane to apply this image. They often get sick, hurt, and are under the circumstances that it is even a miracle that meat from slaughtered animals can still be eaten and consumed by humans. Unfortunately, it is obvious that it is not possible to stop eating meat, because I myself am a meat-eater, there are meat-eating people in the world, and most of us eat meat, but the increased shift to a plant-based diet is clearly a solution to the global problem of large-scale livestock farming and, of course, for meat consumers, animals kept under conditions where there is no risk of animal cruelty. [[20.00]] Of course, since there are more than 7 billion people on the planet now, this cannot be solved, it is obvious that plant-based nutrition can be the solution in the future if we want to feed the entire planet. The complete cessation of animal testing must also be a solution, since, as some states have already done, it must sooner or later be done in all forms of mercy and humanity, because when a living being suffers, there cannot be a moral justification for why we do it and there is no need for suffering. Although we use that term, in fact, what we can do is avoid it by a hundred percent. And we don't even talk about animals for our own entertainment, and I could give you a lot of examples of this, unfortunately, in the five-minute time frame, where animals are used for purposes that involve extreme torture, torture and torment. So I would end my thoughts by thinking about animal protection, and remember that these living beings feel the same need that we humans should listen to them and treat them more carefully, because, as Gandhi said, and we often quote that the moral development of a nation is a true reflection of the way it treats animals, and there is still a good deal to do in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-20-164	Thank you, Congressman. That's how I thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 8:00 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
