u2022-05-24-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 7th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and we hope that Dávid Dócs, who will be present later in the session, will help me. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, We will begin our work with speeches before the agenda. Antal Csárdi, Member of the MSZP Group, has applied for a pre-meeting address with the title of current affairs. [[Antal Csárdi: LMP!]] You have the floor.
u2022-05-24-1	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Today the new government will be formed. The elections were held nearly two months ago, and it is worth seeing what the Hungarian government has done and, as a rule, I have also arrived at the previous government, because there is a clear continuity of law to reduce inflation, to reduce the effects of what it has done to ensure that the wages of civil servants are not devalued. Bence Rétvári claimed last week that under the Fidesz government, public wages did not decrease. [[Bence Rétvári: When did we reduce it? You reduced it.]] This, unfortunately, does not stand the test of truth in this way, since only this year, my fellow Members, is only this year! our fellow countrymen have suffered a loss of real value that this country has not seen in a very, very long time. In just one week, since the new government members started to become public, products have become noticeably expensive, typically the basic products, basic foods that everyone should be able to buy. [[Dávid Dócs takes the notary seat.]] In one week in April, the weight of white bread increased by 10 percent, and the Trappist cheese increased by 15 percent in one week. But every week, every month, we experience a completely unbearable increase in the price of different products. Since 1 January 2022, margarine has increased by 20 percent this is not the year, it has only increased by 45-50 percent since January, paprika, tomatoes and vegetables in general. Since April last year, the price of breads, trappist cheese, sour cream, honey, usually basic vegetables has increased by 30-40 percent in a year, taking into account the annual increase. This means that people's income is slowly losing their value from one hour to the next, especially for those who spend most of their income on food. I know that the government's answer will now be that you have frozen the prices of petrol and gas oil, I add: the burden of this is not borne by the Hungarian government, but by businesses. They will say that seven products, including chicken tails, have been maximized, I would add: the burden is not borne by the Hungarian government and not by the budget, but by businesses. One thing we need to know for sure is what the Hungarian government is planning after its establishment today, because we know what they should do. The VAT on basic foods should be reduced to 5%, and I think that such a VAT reduction would really reduce it if it didn't stop it, but it would reduce this incredible rate of increase. At the same time, I think that we cannot go without saying that the wages of civil servants must be made a follow-up to inflation. It has to be made into an inflation tracker, because no state can afford to have its co-workers out of control. We're talking about the worst-paid people. I think that if we really appreciate the added value of civil servants and civil servants, which I think there is no debate in this House, then this must also come from a financial point of view. And it is not enough to link these wages to inflation, to make them inflation-seekers, but to clearly increase them significantly afterwards, because neither teachers nor health workers, and I am not thinking of doctors in the first place. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] they're not paid as much as they deserve. Thank you very much.
u2022-05-24-2	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister, responds. You have the floor.
u2022-05-24-3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In terms of inflation, which you claim is due to the old and new governments in Hungary, everyone in Europe knows that this is a false statement. This is where your basic statement starts: the fact that inflation is higher than before in Hungary is for political reasons. That's not true, everybody knows that. Inflation is a global burden, especially for Europe. As far as inflation is concerned, everyone knows that factors affecting the level of price increases in a given country are not internal economic reasons, but are basically reasons from outside the border. What are these? First of all, the energy crisis. The energy crisis is the European Union's failed energy policy, which has caused a significant increase and has caused a particular burden in many countries of Europe. If your claim were true, we could not say that the increase in energy prices in Hungary is not a burden on the population. It does not burden it, because the reduction of the rent was introduced by the current government almost ten years ago, and the real benefit of this is now being made by the population in the country. There is no country in Europe that has taken so many measures against inflation. Inflation can be broken not only by reducing VAT or freezing prices, although this government has also used this method very effectively, but also by adding income, pensions, the 13th month pension, and increasing earnings to a higher level than inflation. This is what happened in Hungary. When you're talking about a real decrease, it's not true, it's just not true. In 2021, inflation was already high, but real earnings increased by 3.4 percent in Hungary. [[11.10]] But this is also true of the lower incomes, as from 1 January 2022 the monthly minimum wage increased to HUF 200,000, and the guaranteed minimum wage was HUF 260 thousand, which is almost unique in Europe as well. As far as inflation is concerned, Hungary is not the first, as you say here, that this is a huge problem in Hungary. In significant and larger countries, inflation is more than 10%. For example, the neighbouring Poland, for example, where the VAT on food was reduced to zero in February, is still higher in Poland than in Hungary. Hungary is fighting inflation not only by increasing incomes and increasing pensions, but also by freezing prices. We first froze it in Hungary and set the price of fuels in 480 HUF, which had a significant impact on the non-high growth of inflation. It's the same with the grocery stop. You like to make fun of him, but the public will not do so, and you do not feel that way. When the public goes into the store and finds and buys these products, they see that they can buy it at the price of two years ago. Overall, what you claim is that the Hungarian government is not doing anything about inflation, and the situation is so bad that it is already endangering livelihoods, especially in the public sector, this statement is wrong. I think that in your next speech, you will consider this and review what you have just said because it is not real. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-05-24-4	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, To speak before the agenda, Ms Rebecca Szabó, the Dialogue Group, spoke with a title on current affairs. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2022-05-24-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The climate crisis and the crisis in wildlife are the 21st century. It is one of the biggest challenges facing society in the last century. Its effects threaten people's everyday lives, causing extreme drought, storms, ecological disasters. Yet your government has removed its own environmental wallet in 2010, but their plans for the current government do not give rise to excessive optimism. Including official supervision, four ministries will be responsible for environmental protection. Due to the climate crisis on our necks, water supply is of strategic importance, but difficulties can be covered if water management belongs to the Ministry of Interior, the protection of wetlands and the water supply of agriculture belongs to the Agricultural Ministry. One of the embodiments of the problems is the continuous drainage of the waters instead of water retention in the landscape, and the unfortunately common damage to nature is that during the vegetation period the waves are cut to tarmacs, and the streams, rivers, along with the vegetation and the fauna. Due to the climate crisis and energy independence, the security of our energy supply, renewable energy would also be crucial, with a share of only 14 percent in our country. This is far below the EU average, but even below the neighbouring countries. This is not the time to start switching from natural gas and oil, but, well, in Hungary solar energy has been subject to a special tax for years, there is currently no network connection capacity, and wind energy is simply banned, although, contrary to beliefs, many areas of Hungary would be suitable for the economic operation of modern wind power plants. In addition, today happens to be European National Parks Day. National parks are also the main guardians of our natural values in Hungary, so it is quite an important question whether they plan to increase their support, when the zone system that designates the core areas can be completed, which was announced only in the Hortobágy National Park in 2020, although the legal framework has been set since 2013 and the technical conditions have been known to exist since 2018. Then we see that the Fidesz government has already put great emphasis on tourism development. Why, though, do they not pay attention to the fact that investments do not destroy natural values? Why is it not important to protect green spaces and public parks in settlements, even though the Constitutional Court decree states that these are the guarantees of fundamental rights to a healthy environment for people living in the city? And, well, even if there are rules on environmental and nature protection in the country, their enforcement is very weak. There is no independent green authority for a long time, and you have terminated it; you deal with environmental licensing issues within government offices. It is therefore not surprising that the secretary of state responsible for environmental protection has, for some reason, said that it has no authority to object to natural-destructive investments such as the construction of Lake Fertő or the large hotel called Aligaliget, whose investor wants to mutilate the high shore of Balaton with the support of state billions, from which the unparalleled view will soon cease, but it is good now that everyone can enjoy it freely. But if one of the authorities were to represent the interests of the environment, the investment would immediately become a national priority, which would exempt the project from almost all requirements. Thus, even in cases of obvious violations, recourse to the court gives local communities the only hope. And speaking of authorities, unfortunately, animal welfare is in a difficult situation. On the one hand, with few exceptions, there is no one who can enforce legislation on the ground, so many cases of animal cruelty are unfortunately left without consequences. On the other hand, the recent decision by the veterinary authority to kill an elderly painter's rack sheep has given rise to quite a stir. The implementation was carried out with immediate effect with the assistance of the local hunting companies, while the animals could have been placed in a shelter, which has repeatedly indicated that they were ready to receive the animals. We filed a complaint against an unidentified unsub, by the way. In the field of animal protection and nature conservation, civil society organisations play a fundamental role in the preservation, rescue and awareness-raising of values, they perform practically public tasks, and they do not yet have a transparent, regular, professional tender source available to them. I very much hope that this situation will be improved in the next cycle. And finally, ladies and gentlemen of State, since I and my party were not members of the governments before 2010, I would like to ask you with great respect to try to focus your response on what you are currently thinking about answering the challenges I have mentioned. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the lines of DK, LMP, Jobbik, Momentum, Dialogue and MSZP.]]
u2022-05-24-6	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Sándor Bodó wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2022-05-24-7	Thank you very much. Mr President, Fellow Members! Unfortunately, I hear that the issue of environmental protection and animal protection is an ongoing political issue, and if there is a strong place for professionalism somewhere, [[Rebecca Szabó intervenes.]] I think it's right here. They make political voices every time we talk about it, parades, various contributions and contributions of quality that have very little to do with reality. [[Intercom from opposition lines.]] I'm suggesting that I... disprove, that's exactly what I'm doing, but please don't address me, because I didn't do this to you. So, in this situation, I think that actions by the left or your city leaders should be considered rather than attempted outbursts of this nature. Take a look at Budapest's transport. I think they have a lot to do with this, because it is because of the actions of the mayor you delegate. [[Rebecca Szabó intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] I would also ask you to acknowledge that, because this is the reality, you said, that 25 percent of the Dumpsters in Budapest were definitely justified. [[Rebecca Szabó intervenes.]] Well, if we can take any practical steps to protect our environment, cleanliness, I think they're all like that. But I could also tell you about the abolition of 154-year-old Main Gardens. So there are countless and one thing where you're practically doing something completely different than what you're asking us to do. This is nothing new, by the way, because it happens in other areas. I think, however, that the proposals tabled by Parliament last spring, for example, and which included the Act on Climate Protection and the non-deferential tasks arising from the scale of climate change, were not voted on by you. So to complain, to make such outbursts that when there is a specific matter, they are not supported by their vote on this subject, I think it is sportless at the very least. And we also need to see that Hungary is one of the climate champions, if I may use that word [[Intercom from opposition lines: You mustn't!]] We are affected by about 0.1 percent of the world's total emissions. [[11.20]] In other words, it is clear that concrete measures are taking place which are otherwise recognised professionally in the European Union. We are taking the lead in the EU [[Bence of Turda: What? Run for it again. The president's ringing the bell.]] and we are also on the path to this achievement. I think, for example, that in 2020 there was an 11,6 percent share of renewable energy in transport. Here, Congressman, you are constantly yelling at me in a completely rude way, but it is a fact that, above the EU average, you are the 6th best position. Please check it out before you plan to make such outbursts. Since 2010, we have increased the use of renewable electricity by 84 percent and increased the use of biofuels by 69 percent. You can argue with them if you are able to have a professional debate. These are all measures which you are ignoring with a wave, but I think such practical examples should also be given, especially for the next generation, as an example. For example, ten trees are planted after each newborn. This is an initiative that, as a young parent, I think should be absolutely supported and recognised. But we can also support the emergence and use of cheap electric cars, as we have already supported the purchase of 7500 electric cars. And I categorically refuse to do this to ourselves, as you say here. Within the framework of the Green Bus Programme, we have introduced the placing of these on the market in cities over 25,000 people. I think that these are all steps that are very impressive. We have introduced the Green Government Bond, but I do not think that it is necessary for me to list it, because it seems that you do not accept it and that you have arrogant remarks. I think that we have nothing to be ashamed of in the field of animal protection, because we are currently publishing a notice that provides civil society organisations with a very serious development opportunity in this area. Perhaps on this one thing we can agree a little bit that the involvement of civil society organisations in the field of animal protection, the effective cooperation with them, I think is essential, and the Government of Hungary will also provide a source for this, according to the call for proposals published in the coming weeks. I ask you not to look at those steps and decisions through political, but in any case through professional glasses, and please cooperate in order to achieve government goals. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-05-24-8	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Prime Minister László Toroczkai, Mi Hazank Group: Hungary belongs to the Hungarians! It's an address. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2022-05-24-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, While the government triumphantly regularly tells us how good the public safety situation is in Hungary, while now, this weekend, Saturday evening in Kerepes, at least two large groups of at least one hundred people met, shots were fired, firearms were used, and the Counter-Terrorism Center had to exit. The police were on the scene with tremendous force, and they were able to stop the bloodshed in a bulletproof vest. Three people were then taken into custody. And the D.A.'s office, which, we know for a fact, is the leader of a former Fidesz politician, didn't see any justification for arrest, so these terrorists are allowed to defend themselves. It would be very good if Roma politicians in the fractions of Fidesz or Balliberal parties, such as Jobbik's faction, did not do so, and did not want to restore the very problematic relations of Hungarian-Gypsy coexistence by speaking in horse-riding languages here in Parliament and artificially trying to create another nation within the nation. That's just gonna cause a lot of tension. They should already be on the spot, Kerepes, and they should be the loudest representatives of the fact that groups belonging to this subculture should be separated from gypsy groups, and they should not want to follow them, such as Gypsy youth or Gypsy children. But we do not hear about this here, in Parliament, either, but rather argue with Roma organisations outside the parliament, for example, as the better Roma politician, that he has spoken it correctly in a horse-riding language or that he has not spoken it correctly in a horse-riding language. But there are not only war conditions in Kerepes, but also in ours, along the southern border. I'm going to be sending evidence to the press these days that you'll be able to see in photos that armed criminal organizations are organizing human trafficking. On the Serbian side, the Hungarian-Serbian border was divided into Afghan, Pakistani and other groups, equipped with machine rifles, and this is especially important for them because of the territorial division struggle. I would strongly ask the Hungarian Government, if you are talking about war, not to demand an emergency because of the war in Ukraine, but because of what is happening here, in Hungary, specifically on our border, in the territory of Asotthalom, Morahalom, Röszke, or even because of what is happening in Kerepes, next to the capital, so act firmly, with new laws, even from now on, because there are unblessed conditions, and the law-abiding people are terrified. So, returning to what is happening at the southern border now, with spring coming: migrants are causing huge economic damage to those working in agriculture, we will also get this to the government as he begins his work, a statistics with concrete figures on the damage that Hungarian farmers will suffer only this year. The last time we received such assistance from the government on behalf of farmers there in 2015, there has been no such compensation for those living in agriculture along the border. Also, the garbage collection caused by migrants will now only impose a hundred million HUF extra burden on the settlement of Asotthalom on an annual basis. Specific information will also be submitted to the government by the current municipalities and the leaders of the municipalities at my request. We ask the government to support, on the one hand, Hungarian citizens living on the border, who are exposed to such a war situation at the southern border. On the other hand, take advantage of the opportunity to establish such a good relationship with the Serbian Government, and not only meet at an international agricultural meeting in Novi Sad, but also in such cases, the Hungarian Government should put pressure on the Serbian Government and take action. It's incomprehensible and we don't understand. Hungarians live on both sides of the border, and I would like to say this, this is an area of Királyhalom, which I am talking about. I'm going to present with photos and other documents stories that I think you're seeing in war movies about migrant criminals crawling around with armed assault rifles. So my request for the Hungarian government to negotiate with the Serbian Government is that the Hungarian Minister of Interior contact the Serbian Minister of Interior that the Serbian authorities will prevent it. If they do not dare to go there, if they are afraid, because according to the Hungarians living on the Serbian side, Hungarians who are Hungarian citizens and who are Serb citizens are simply afraid of the Serbian police, then the Hungarian government can help with professional advice. Thank you. [[Applause from the benches of our country.]]
u2022-05-24-10	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontrat, Minister of State, responds. You have the floor.
u2022-05-24-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, First of all, I would like to point out that the Hungarian police in all the settlements of Hungary are taking decisive action against all criminals, against all criminal groups, to ensure the safety of people's lives and property, and to maintain public security. That's how it happened last weekend in the case of the Kerepesh crime you mentioned. The personnel of the Pest County Police Department, as soon as they were informed of this breach, arrived at the scene immediately, and took the necessary measures to separate the two families that joined each other, and restored order. Operations units of the Counter-Terrorism Centre also arrived at the scene as they were at risk and were informed that there were persons carrying weapons at the scene. Thanks to their decisive action, TEK units have removed this threat and the action taken against the persons concerned has been effective. So I would like to say that in this case, too, the police have taken effective action together with experts from the Counter-Terrorism Centre. I would also like to thank the intervention teams of the Pest County Police Headquarters and the staff of the Counter-Terrorism Centre, the Special Operations Unit whose members participated in the elimination of this infringement. So once again, we have never said, Congressman, that there will be no crime in Hungary from now on. [[11.30]] In 2010, we said that we would restore public order, public security, and that we did. [[László Toroczkai: In two years!]] As regards the protection of the southern border, or the situation of Hungarian-Serbian domestic cooperation or government cooperation, I would like to inform you that Sándor Pintér, Minister of Interior of Hungary, is meeting with his Serbian colleague regularly, reviewing the current tasks, the tasks that both parties consider important. I can promise you, Congressman, that I will signal this problem to the Minister of the Interior, and we trust that the excellent cooperation with the Serbian authorities, the Serbian Government, the Serbian Ministry of Interior will also achieve its goal in this case, and we can also do so from the Hungarian side, or take the measures that... [[László Toroczkai and Dr. István Apáti intervene.]] Congressman, if you'll do me the honor of listening, I'll continue, but if you're communicating with Congressman Abbot, then... [[Dr. István Apáti: AK47. László Toroczkai: The evidence is here on the table!]] Thank you very much. It is important to have a meaningful dialogue, I think, and the basis for this is mutual respect for each other, and the speaker should be heard by the other party, and attention should be paid to the answer. Thank you very much. I'll keep going. So at the southern border, we have all the personal conditions on the Hungarian side in order to ensure that the protection of the southern border is resolved by the police, together with the defence if necessary. In fact, there have been recent cases of more aggressive migrants, more aggressive action, and signs of increased smuggling of people, and effective action against criminals who organise smugglers. I can promise you that in the same way as from the autumn of 2015, we can protect the safety of Hungarian people and Hungary by building the triple protection, legal protection, lively protection and fence, and by building the second fence in 2017. But we are protecting not only Hungary's security, but also the security of the Union, and I can say that we will continue to ensure all the conditions in the future in order for the police and law enforcement agencies to be able to perform their duties effectively. Next year's budget will soon be before Parliament, and I ask you, Mr Group Leader, your group and colleagues to support those efforts and the proposals that will provide the necessary resources for the effective functioning of the police. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-05-24-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Szabó, Member of the MSZP Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on the subject of current issues. You have the floor.
u2022-05-24-13	Mr. President. Dear House, Thank you for the floor. Today, the pro-government representatives will vote in favour of the government structure, the ministries, which lack the independent Ministry of Health, Education or the Environment. Last week, Congressman Balla said that it is not about having a ministry in these areas, but about how the government managed these areas and passed a very good exam, Mr Balla said. Well, let's see what's real. As a Member of the Parliament of Szeged, I would like to present, in particular, on local examples and requests, the serious shortcomings in these areas. Let's look at health care. I work in emergency care, 12-hour shifts, increased responsibility, increased stress. Everyone got a little extra last year, we're talking about 30-20-15 thousand forints, it's sad that this tiny plus was added to the gross, they took taxes from all the benefits, and almost the whole extra promised reward migrated back to the central register. Zero appreciation, professionalism, maximum exploitation of a forced orbit. I love my job, I know I'm needed, I'm there because I can, but it's mean to take advantage of it. I hope that one day the health care workers will get to the right people by crying out for help, said a health worker. And indeed, the situation in health care is untenable, the eviscerated workers can't even go on vacation, there are so few of them. Last fall, 26,000 workers were absent from the profession, and now it's 10 percent. This means that even if 10,000 applicants applied to be nurses from one moment to the next, the minimum conditions could still be met in Hungary today. And if this is not enough, several health organizations have indicated that at the end of the month another wave of departures will be expected, since the termination of the termination ban that has been in existence since 2020. Meanwhile, wage tension is increasing between doctors and nurses. We know the government didn't do enough. The Nursing Association also suggested that caregivers should not be less than 50-70 percent of medical wages, depending on their salary. Let's see what's going on in kindergartens. As a beginner kindergarten educator, I receive 207 thousand forints as an intern, which means that it will take 90 thousand forints for a sublet, or perhaps more, to which will be added the rent, the meal, which in total is 150-170 thousand forints, said one of the ladies working in a kindergarten in Szeged. Thus, a beginner educator will have 30-40 thousand forints for clothing, medicine and other items of use; culture, entertainment and recreation will have little or no more. And indeed: 207 thousand forints, this is about what a beginner kindergarten teacher in Hungary earns today. Therefore, he must do the child - rearing work responsible for the money, and prepare the children for school. And the government has been refusing to improve the humiliatingly low salaries for years, so it is no wonder that the recruitment records show that there have not been as few students in kindergarten education as there have been in 14 years. By comparison, five years ago, there were twice as many applicants. It can also be concluded that the salaries offered in the last five years and the low standard of living due to low wages are less and less reflecting the expectations of the profession, the burden of the work to be done and the degree of responsibility. I think it's untenable, too. In Szeged, there are at least 46 qualified kindergarten educators missing, and 22 of them are retiring this year, and we can't replace them either. But there is a problem in Budapest, Miskolc, but to say that it is true in Debrecen and Székesfehérvár. Hundreds of jobs have been advertised on government websites across the country, so many kindergarten educators could get jobs immediately. But the same is true for teachers, where there is also a huge shortage of staff. This, of course, is linked to the lack of material or moral appreciation, to humiliatingly low wages, and to the increasing burden of educators. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, As you have heard from the examples, as I have shown, the situation is not as good as Congressman Balla outlined last week. We from the opposition benches speak on these matters and urge immediate action because there is a huge problem. And this has also been experienced by the workers involved, the professional advocacy organisations, and has also been calling for help for days, months, and even years. Today we have come to the point that there will be no one to heal or nurse Hungarian people, or to raise or teach our children. You've been governing for 12 years, and you've been given another mandate. The responsibility and the task are yours. Don't show me backwards again, please. We have, by the way, had a number of proposals in these areas, and there is now a way to improve the situation, and while I know that you have rejected them from your hips, and I think you will reject them in the future, but you will not be able to postpone the action any longer. If you want to avoid the collapse of these systems, please act. Thank you for listening.
u2022-05-24-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. You have the floor.
u2022-05-24-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, For the past 12 years, the government has sought to estimate both morally and financially the public service workers. That is what we will do next. We hope that the Hungarian economy will be so strong that we can do this. Our principle has always been, unlike left-wing governments, who have sometimes tried to pay a salary or a pension on credit, that we have always boosted the economy, and that we have been able to give more of the surplus of the economy to everyone to move forward. You said you were seeing a wave of resignations in the public sector. Honourable Congressman, When you were in government, there was not a wave of resignations, but a wave of dismissal in the public sector, let us not forget that you put 15,000 teachers on the street and put 6,000 health workers on the streets, while the municipalities were underfunded so much that other social services were lacking. Local governments have accumulated a debt of HUF 1300 billion, precisely because they have not given enough money to give these people their salaries. So you're making a wave of resignations, honourable Member, we trust that this will go away. At the same time, it is a wave of dismissals that you have decided to make, well, these proposals would not be adopted by us. We have not received it in the last 12 years, and we do not want to accept it in the coming years either, because we do not think that it is worth doing it in health care or in education, or even that it is particularly harmful to us. [[11.40]] You've been talking about wage tension in health care, which has some foundation, but let's see how the pay-voltages have developed. By increasing the salary of nurses by 72 percent over the past four years, and by increasing the salary of doctors by two and a half times over three years. So the difference has indeed increased, but this has increased because doctors have increased their salary by two and a half times and nurses by 72 percent. It is a different situation compared to what you have caused when you have taken wages from people when you have reduced your salary, and there has been tension in people because you have taken so much from one person and so much from the other; and the situation is different when you feel that you are behind in relation to the increase in your doctor's salary, honourable Member. We will strive to give the nurses a raise, of course, because that is why we have to catch up on the 20 years ahead, but it is a different kind of wage tension when the pace of the increase is different. Do you know how much a health worker at the end of your administration, with four or six years of law, with a OKJ degree, made? 160,000 forints. How much are you making now? 357 thousand forints. You know, a guy who's been working for, say, 20 years, so he's had a high school degree, a health worker, a nurse, how much money did he make at the end of your administration? 220,000 forints. And how much do you make now, January 2020? 690 thousand forints. Forints 690 thousand instead of 220 thousand, honourable Member, if I look at the average salary, i.e. basic salary and mobile wage elements and allowances. However, we are talking about raising from 220 thousand forints to 690 thousand forints, and here we are talking about a nurse with a routine and a higher education degree, which is a noticeable rise. In addition to the fact that doctors' wages are indeed much higher: they are paid over HUF 1-2 million or up to HUF 2 million, and there is a difference between the two, I just think that this is something that we can really argue about better than what you have done that, according to the IMF's recipe, you have been taken away from everyone in Hungary in connection with crisis management. And despite the fact that we had just passed the coronal virus epidemic in recent months, but the energy crisis had already started, and soon the war we felt was here, there was still a 10% wage increase for teachers; there was a 10% wage increase for preschoolers; there was a 21 percent wage increase for nurses; there was a 38 percent wage increase for doctors; there was a 20 percent wage increase for daycare workers; there was a 20 percent wage increase for social workers; there was a 20 percent wage increase for those working in the cultural field; there was a 10 percent wage increase for those working in the military, police; there was a six-month raise; there was a six-month raise for weapons. There was a 13th month's pension paid in full, honourable Member, towards the end of the pandemic that has plagued the whole world, when it has hit everyone economically and on the threshold of war in its hallway. We have, of course, a task: to continue the increase in wages with doctors, nurses, social workers and, of course, teachers, which we have started, but your recipe has only led to mass redundancies. And our recipe, we trust, leads to growing appreciation and financial appreciation year after year. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-05-24-16	Thank you, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Mr András Fekete-Győr, Head of the Group, Momentum Group, submitted a pre-meeting address on our current affairs. You have the floor.
u2022-05-24-17	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, And above all: my fellow members of the Government. [[Bence Rétvári interrupts.]] I think you have no idea what Viktor Orbán will do next week. Am I right? I am sure that they are often informed, together with the public opinion, of what they should vote for here in Parliament. Together with us, you'll be amazed at the Prime Minister's radio interviews and the announcements of the Government Info. We all wonder what legislative amendments will follow from Viktor Orbán's folklore comparisons and Gergely Gulyás' mysterious answers. Don't get me wrong. I don't judge someone's ability or ambition to tell them when and which buttons to push. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: We know that!]] But you're doing this to the country, and that's a bigger problem. [[Bence Rétvári: You Gyurcsány tell you what to push!]] Over the past few years, we have heard several times that there is an era of wars, dangers and uncertainty. If I am thinking of Ukraine, China or the transformation of the world economy, then that is why it would be good if the Hungarian government did not increase the uncertainty of the Hungarian people, but reduced the uncertainty of the Hungarian people. [[Bence Rétvári interrupts.]] For the past years, total unpredictability was typical. [[Bence Rétvári: Again!]] Tax laws have been amended several times a year, sometimes every year. [[Nacsa Lawrence: It's down! Taxes are down! Bence Rétvári: Yes, taxes have decreased!]] As people approached the Hungarian Gazette on Friday at midnight, if they wanted to know, they could open their café the next day, or they could go in to work as a waitress or chef during the pandemic; that they would be teaching on Monday how many tickets they could sell for the theatre performance. Sometimes they nationalized entire industries in a few weeks. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Predictability is one of the most important conservative values, my fellow Members. Compared to this, we get the vague threat from Minister of Finance Mihály Varga at the hearing that there will be cuts in the case of Katács. [[Bence Rétvári: They won't be.]] This currently affects more than 400 thousand Hungarian small entrepreneurs. Most of them are small businessmen, so plumbers, caterers, professional translators, hairdressers. You first introduced a 40 percent penalty tax on the income above HUF 3 million, then essentially branded 400 thousand Hungarian small entrepreneurs as frauds, and now waving Damocles' sword over their heads. Then last week, we listened to the Minister for Economic Development of Márton Nagy about the need for Hungarian-owned supermarket chains. [[Bence Rétvári: And do you agree?]] You've been talking about this for 12 years, but your only concrete result is that the CBA campaigning on the Fidesz billboards has started renaming its businesses. You have only done nothing to create the Hungarian quality retail. Once again, they threaten a hundred thousand employees: those working in foreign-owned stores; those, dear fellow Members, to whom the evil multi-pays better than you to our teachers or nurses. They're threatening us, but we don't know what's gonna happen. Do you still have the work of shop workers and their salary? Aren't they gonna cause another food price explosion? Hungarian property is a good thing, obviously we all support it, but don't make the Hungarian people pay the price, that's our request. They miss a price increase in the period of double-digit inflation as well as István Happy's tax control. Then we listened to Antal Rogán and Máté Kocsis about the need to deploy the secret services against civilians and war propaganda. The latter is, by the way, a correct goal, which I will sign, but war propaganda, dear fellow Members, is now distributed by the Fidesz media, on Russian samples and Russian templates. I would like to remind you of my colleague Mr Tompos' continuously updating collection. Marton is a hero, by the way, because you and I are watching public television; unfortunately, this will generate 50 percent extra ratings for TV. But admit it, you don't watch your own TV either. [[Defiance and interrogation in the benches of the ruling parties.]] So if Antal Rogán and Máté Kocsis want to fight Fidesz propaganda, then feel free to do so. It's gonna be weird to listen to yourself, by the way, but my guess is that the goal here, too, is for Hungarians who disagree with Fidesz to live in uncertainty. So even the new Hungarian government has not taken office, and it has already managed to threaten small businesses, retail workers and Hungarian civilians. [[Bence Rétvári interrupts.]] On the other hand, dear fellow Members, good governance must be about: [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Let's hear it! Let's hear it. Time's up!]] can lead a predictable, peaceful life for every law-abiding citizen, whether left- or right-wing, civilian or public servant, entrepreneur or employee. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Momentum. Bence of Rétvári: This is the rubber bullet, isn't it?]]
u2022-05-24-18	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, Deputy Minister, responds. You have the floor.
u2022-05-24-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, I do not know that you were here in the Parliamentary Chamber, but when Prime Minister Viktor Orbán was elected by the House, Prime Minister, he gave a speech, which I think is a government programme for the next four years. He made very clear commitments in this regard. So it's probably not the sending device, but the receiving device, if it doesn't make it clear to you what we're planning for the next period. The essence of this speech was what you sarcastically quote on it that we are surrounded by a very dangerous and very uncertain world, and in the last 12 years we Hungarians have been able to achieve serious results together. Therefore, one of the most important commitments of the government is to preserve these results. [[11.50]] There are four such areas. We have undertaken to maintain family support; we have undertaken to maintain the reduction of the rent; we have undertaken to maintain full employment; and we have also undertaken to maintain pensions and the real value of pensions. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] And as much energy is still coming out of the country, we hope that as much energy as possible will be available, we also undertake that we will be able to go forward beyond that, not backwards. You mentioned the issue of war, on which we also made it clear in this speech that we condemn Russia's aggression and help Ukrainian refugees. But if I could bring to your attention, for example, a recent speaker who comes from a world that is certainly important to you, because our opinion in this regard, as I see it, does not take into account, Henry Kissinger spoke at the Davos World Economic Forum and said: the conflict between the West and Russia has an insurmountable, disastrous consequences; for Europe's long-term stability, we should not be working on the continuation of war, but on the creation of peace. We, too, recommend to you these speeches, and that you may need to come down from spreading war propaganda. The other part is that there is also an economic dimension to the crisis. There is also an energy crisis in Western Europe and there is a very serious inflation situation worldwide. This is clearly due to the war in Putin and Brussels' failed energy policy. We do not understand why you do not see this and why you cannot take the side of Hungarian interests and Hungarian people. What we see is that the middle class suffers everywhere in Western Europe, and by the way, multinational corporations and banks benefit. We want the Hungarian measures to remain in force, they protect the people, and you are attacking the Hungarian measures. And we do not want the price of the war, which was not started by the Hungarian people, to be carried out not in the interests of the Hungarian people; indeed, the Hungarian people do not agree, but are on the side of peace, but that the price of the war should be paid by the Hungarian people. This is the area where I think all political forces, regardless of their political affiliation, could work together here in the Hungarian Parliament. We do not understand why you do not share this consensus. And if we look at your political work so far, we'll see a little bit more into the whys. Your political power and your political performance are also known for being the one who broke into an editorial when he met with journalists' opinions he did not agree with; he attacked the police, in connection with which proceedings are pending against you; therefore, in each case, mischief was more important to you than cooperation. By the way, during the election campaign period, he campaigned for a Romanian party instead of a Hungarian campaign, so for you, party political ideology has always been more important than the idea of national cohesion. And if we look back, in the last few months, they haven't been able to decide whether they're going to attend Parliament or not. Then, when they realized that if they didn't attend the meeting and take an oath, they wouldn't be paid, they would come in quickly and still take an oath. So showing off has always been more important than responsible politics. I don't think you'll be able to succeed in the coming years. If you do not change, then there is a chance that you will also be a moment in Hungarian political history. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2022-05-24-20	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Brenner Koloman, Jobbik Group, asked for a speech with the title Reloaded by Mr Széll Kálmán Plan. You have the floor.
u2022-05-24-21	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we have seen a sad symbol of the past 12 years' fidesz anti-knowledge and intellectuals policy in Deák Square a few days ago, where a high school teacher was ashamed to beg. I think that I am a linguist, but my primary degree is a history-German high school teacher, that it is a disgrace to all of us, and especially to you, because in the last 12 years you have brought the Hungarian pedagogical society to the point that the wages of Hungarian teachers are the lowest and lowest among the OECD member states of the EU! We must say that the comprehensive analysis of the Eötvös Loránd research institute shows very well in detail the results of this anti-knowledge and intellectual policy. Among other things, it is a very detailed survey and analysis that virtually all educational indicators have deteriorated over the last decade. What hurts for us in Jobbik, the right centre national party of the opposition is particularly painful [[Bence Rétvári: What was it? One more time.]] the fate of young adults and children growing up in small towns and rural schools who are increasingly in need of quality education. [[Bence Rétvári: That's not true!]] This, by the way, was exponential during the period of the coronal virus epidemic, unfortunately. In addition, I have to say that half of the teachers' students are not teachers. This is no wonder, as there is a particularly low wage for Hungarian teachers, or a fool who will become a teacher in Hungary. In this overall picture, I think it is particularly worthwhile to recall what you will be up to after 12 years of governance in the coming social and economic crisis, refilled by the Kálmán Széll plan. I was forced to live the Széll Kálmán project I and II as university leaders. I translate: this meant austerity, only called the Kálmán Széll Plan; it is suspected that the current austerity in the field of education will be called the Rogán Antal Plan, I believe. During the Széll Kálmán project, you have extracted hundreds of billions of Hungarian education, just called the Széll Kálmán plan, and therefore it is not a word of austerity that comes to mind of a Hungarian citizen these days. I, the Secretary of State of Rétvári, hereby announce this in advance, before the reply of your new allies put on what your best of CD album did before 2010 that I also acted against the tuition fee as a university leader in 2006, and I also performed in 2011, when György Matolcsy was a self-sustaining high-education fellow member of the Fidesz group, who visited on self-sustaining higher education in the framework of the Széll Kálmán project, before being left-winged here. You wanted to make the entire Hungarian higher education self-sustainable, with tuition fees, my esteemed fellow Fidesz Member! [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's right!]] I remember it well, of course, your propaganda can cover this up, but is the new plan of the Széll Kálmán project, Plan Antal Rogán? We see that Jobbik's proposal for a zero-percent VAT rate is also very important for the wider masses, as not only teachers are standing there to beg, but it would be very helpful for a wider group of Hungarian citizens with a bad fate to accept our proposal to cut the tax on basic foods to zero percent, because for us in Jobbik, the right centre Christian social party of the opposition [[Bence Rétvári: Come on, one more time!]] education is a high-priority nation strategy sector where, in times of crisis, not 6 but 8 percent of gross domestic product should be spent. That conservative policy, my fellow Members of the Fidesz, is not what you do to draw money from education again! We're sure that's what's gonna happen. We are sure, because that is what they did when they fought a sort of after-war against the 2008 global economic crisis. I think, therefore, that we should note in summary that we will monitor very closely that no more money is drawn from Hungarian education, because it is the 21st. This is the wealth and freedom they deserve for Hungarian citizens in the century of knowledge and information. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-05-24-22	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Minister.
u2022-05-24-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The definition of Jobbik, although he told us twice, but I don't think we've learned it either. [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: It's not your fault that you don't understand. Dr. Brenner Koloman: I will hold a text understanding seminar!]] That's exactly what we want, but we don't want to, because in a year's time, it's gonna be different. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You got the wrong paper!]] However, one of your opening statements perfectly shows how Jobbik has become a national-minded party, a repetitious, repetitious party that constantly says left-wing-liberal mantras, when you are a teacher and student of the entire Hungarian education system, that there is nothing worse than that in Europe, because there is no better performance. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: I said statistical data, my dear friend.]] Now, this is what the Left owns, in spite of the facts, figures, figures, figures, that no one is doing worse than the Hungarians. [[12.00]] Even when, thank God, I'm about to give you results here, which show that thank God, in this average, [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] At least we bring it, but we generally surpass it and have improved results. But since you've become a left-wing party, there's only one thing that's important to you is that the Hungarians are downgraded, and they say that other people who are hundreds of miles away are doing well, they're very good. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Slovenia! Slovakia! Dániel Z. Carpathian: How many hundred kilometers is Slovenia, my friend?]] We Hungarians can always do worse, so let us give up our own decision on our own questions. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: I didn't say anything about that.]] If others are better off, let's take over the samples there, and let's not worry about what a Hungarian model could be like. Honourable Congressman, Let's look at the results of the TIMSS study, which also examines students' understanding of the text, and also examines their knowledge of science and mathematics. There are four categories of this, in which we are at the same time as the European average, and in three we are well above the European average. Let's see, let's say math. I'm comparing 58 countries. If you look at the fourth grade students, we are there, like Denmark, Sweden, Germany and Poland, somewhere at the European average level. If you look at the 8th graders, we are far above average in math, the European Union has a 504-point average, we are 517. That is what you said, Member, that Jobbik has become left-wing, that there is nothing worse than Hungarian. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: I didn't say that! Words!]] But let's look at science. Fourth grade students, also significantly better than the average of 58 countries. If I look at the 8th grade, the Hungarian eighth grade students, in this TIMSS report in science, were only 6 countries worldwide better than the Hungarian average, and only Finland in the EU. This is how Hungarian students perform, and you are able to say here in Parliament that Hungarian education, Hungarian students are the worst in the European Union [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: I didn't say that! Words!]] While we're in second place behind Finland. If you look at the Hungarian competence measurement, which compares the level of students from year to year, there is also an increase from 1613 points to 1670 points. Obviously, this has a complicated and complex mechanism, but the point is, we can expect an increase here, which means recognition. We also have to acknowledge the performance of Hungarian students and the performance of Hungarian teachers, and not stand up in parliament, and say that there is anti-intellectism in Hungary, that Hungarian students are bad, that Hungarian teachers are bad, that the whole education system is bad as it is, let's replace it with something else. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Teachers beg, say something, my friend.]] The PISA report you like most: how much was the latest, and how much was the result before that? We are now in 29-38th place in the field of text understanding, earlier we were in 35-47th place. The last time we were in mathematics was 31-37, before that, 35-39. The last place we were was 29-34 in natural science was 34-39. In each area, Congressman, we have improved our results. And you say that Hungarian education is becoming worse and that Hungarian students will be less educated when they pass the school. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: I didn't say that!]] The determining power of the family background; you also spoke about it, suggesting that obviously, if a child comes from a more difficult background, how much it affects his educational achievements. When it was the previous measurement, we saw that in Hungary, before we started steering, the family background determined the student's performance by 26 percent according to the PISA measurement, so it was not based on a Hungarian measurement, now it is 19.1. Thus, it has been reduced if a person starts from a disadvantage, then the school can only preserve its disadvantages, and thanks to the schools, those who started out from a difficult situation are also able to break out. And this includes, honourable Member, the fact that schools are in state reserve, including the new NAT, the new generation textbooks, the Smart Portal, and the fact that between 2013 and 17, there was no country in the OECD where teachers' wages would have increased more than now, all of these are included. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Long live the party! Long live the party!]] , and the diligence and perseverance of Hungarian students and Hungarian teachers in the fact that the performance of Hungarian education has all improved factually in every field I have read to you. But for Jobbik, he's turned left. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] It's not important, you just want to downgrade it, you want to say that what's Hungarian is wrong. Thank God, the Hungarian voters also said no to this. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Brenner Koloman: Mr. President, you were a little more than you should have been.]]
u2022-05-24-24	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda, MEP László Szászfalvi, KDNP Group: Hungary helps! The Hungarians joined forces for the refugees! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-05-24-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear Parliament, Three months ago, February 24th, the Russian-Ukrainian war broke out. Many hoped for a lightning war, but eventually it turned into a prolonged conflict, exhausting the parties, with enormous material destruction and terrifying human suffering. This war has unfathomable political, economic and moral consequences that will fundamentally influence the coming years. In addition, we have had a humanitarian crisis that has not yet been encountered by today's generation. Hungary is implementing the greatest humanitarian action in its history in these weeks and months. Thousands, tens of thousands of refugees have come to Hungary every day from Ukraine in total, and the Hungarian people, the government, the state administration and the charities help war refugees as almost one person. Hungary has adopted most Ukrainian refugees in proportion to the population. I would like to stress that Hungary takes care of all refugees without discrimination. The provision of refugees, the collection of donations and the delivery of humanitarian aid are continuous and complete. State institutions and organisations, churches, various charities and volunteers are doing excellent work, and the government is successfully coordinating this extraordinary task. Here I would like to take this opportunity to thank the government and the Hungarian people for their sacrifice and perseverance on behalf of our group. Dear Parliament, The charitable health, education and administration measures taken so far have not only been limited to helping refugees, but also taken serious steps to care for those left in Transcarpathia and even in Internal Ukraine. In the framework of the Programme.Hungary Helps, aid supplies and disaster control equipment are also available in the more dangerous regions. Minister Szijjártó recently offered EUR 37 million in a five-point proposal on behalf of the Government to help Ukraine. So it is a clearly visible and proven reality that Hungary, the Hungarian Government, the Hungarian people are doing everything they can to help those who have fled Ukraine and to help those who are in need in Ukraine. One month ago the Prime Minister's first official journey after the election led to the Vatican, where Pope Francis himself acknowledged and thanked the Hungarian government and the Hungarian people for their service to refugees. It is therefore incomprehensible and unacceptable that, in this extremely difficult situation, some foreign and Hungarian left-wing politicians, the liberal Western media, instead of appreciating and recognising the efforts of the Hungarian people and the Hungarian government, are attacking and discrediting Hungary. The attacks are strongly rejected, the refugees are fully assisted, and the Hungarian families and our Hungarian national interests are strongly protected. Dear House, I would like to recall the idea of Csaba Böjte, in the spirit of which we Hungarians do our job: "Love is like medicine, not reward. It should be given not to the one who deserves it, but to the one who needs it. Hungary and the Hungarian people have once again joined forces and proved that they are able to do everything to support the people who have fallen, fled from their homes and are vulnerable to the war. It's a moral duty for us. Thank you and thanks to all those who help you. On the part of KDNP, we continue to support the cooperation for refugees and the government's work and efforts to protect the peace and security of Hungary and the Hungarian people. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-24-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, responds. You have the floor, Minister. [[12.10]]
u2022-05-24-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Deputy Chief of Staff, Thank you very much for your speech. If I may, I would like to respond to what you have said for a few reasons. If there is a war in a country, it is obviously a serious security risk for its neighbouring countries. That's how it is in our case. Every minute of the war in Ukraine, every day, represents a serious security risk for Hungary. That is why we are interested in peace in Ukraine as soon as possible. Hungary is on the side of peace and will do everything in its power to promote peace in the neighbourhood. It is important to define correctly what is the most important duty of the government, and the most important duty for us now is to guarantee the safety of Hungary and the Hungarian people. We've made the right decisions. This is why we are not transporting weapons to Ukraine, and therefore we are not transferring arms shipments directly through Hungary to Ukraine, because these shipments have unfortunately been considered a military target to be destroyed in the past period, and we do not want such targets to be present in Hungary, on the one hand, and on the other. I would like to tell you, Mr Vice-President of the Group, ladies and gentlemen, that according to the current figure this morning, there are 724 639 people coming to Hungary directly or indirectly from the direction of Ukraine who are fleeing the war. Hungary has allowed all refugees in, and all refugees are taken care of. Those who want to stay with us in the longer term, we also help them to work and support employers in applying refugees. I would like to ask myself here, on behalf of all decent people, to ask for the attempt to wash together that some people wanted between migrants and families fleeing Ukraine. Refugees from Ukraine have the right to enter Hungary, for where to escape from the war, if not a safe neighbouring country. International law is also clear on this issue. But illegal migrants storming our southern border do not have the right to enter the territory of Hungary, because they cross safe countries and even dozens of safe countries, generally violating the borders of these countries, their sovereignty and their legislation. They do not have the right to enter Hungary, but refugees have the right, we take them in, we help them, and, as we look at it, the Deputy Group Leader is indeed right, it seems that we must prepare for an even longer war next door. As long as the war lasts, as long as people have to flee, we will, of course, take them in. At the Warsaw donor conference, we presented a five-point offer: we undertake to rebuild a school and a hospital in Kiev County, or if the Ukrainian authorities decide on a different location, of course there. We undertake, without limitation, health care for wounded Ukrainian soldiers in Hungary, as we undertake to provide special hospital care for 130 children here in Hungary. In the area of Transcarpathia, we urgently need to take action to resolve the situation of internal refugees. Accordingly, we have undertaken the delivery of large quantities of mobile homes to accommodate internal refugees and to facilitate their housing. We also undertake thousands of young people from Ukraine with scholarships at universities in Hungary whose studies have been interrupted due to the war. In addition, I respectfully inform my fellow Members of the fact that there is no arms transport through Hungary to Ukraine, so international humanitarian organisations keep the territory of Hungary, the Hungarian-Ukrainian border, as a secure transport route, so the International Red Cross coordinates the activities of Ukraine and the supply of people in difficult situations in Ukraine from Hungary by creating a logistics centre in Debrecen. Therefore, Hungary does not deliver weapons, the most important thing for us is the absence from the war. In the framework of the greatest humanitarian action in Hungary's history, we give all the help to the people of Ukraine who are in difficulty, we have given it so far, and we will continue to give it to them in the future. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-24-28	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Balázs Győrffy, Group Fidesz, spoke with the title of our current affairs. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2022-05-24-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, National elections took place at the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy on 20 May with record participation. In a month and a half, the Hungarian countryside has shown its strength, unity and right-wing commitment for the second time. The Hungarian economy showed a strong strength and unity such as that it joined forces behind the representatives of Fidesz-KDNP on 3 April. On April 3rd, May 20th was the day that the crown was erected. The balance of these two days has a strong message, namely that there is no Hungary without the countryside, without farmers. It is a great pride for us that some 79 thousand people voted in the agricultural chamber elections on Friday, nearly 70 percent more than last time. The 18,5 percent participation in the European Union is almost uniquely high. In other countries, there is typically only a few percent participation in the agricultural chamber elections; in Poland, for example, the last time was 2.8 percent. However, only Hungary will hold the negative record. Back in 2008, at the Hungarian Agricultural Chamber under left-wing government, there was a county election where 30 delegates were elected. You hear me, dear fellow Members, there were fewer voters than the elected one from here. The current high participation shows that the activities of the Chamber of Agriculture are recognised by the members, and the government's commitment to the countryside is also appreciated. 79 thousand Hungarian farmers and food industry players have given an "A" to the government's performance over the past 12 years, and they have rewarded its current vote for its support and constructive attitude towards agriculture, which rural Hungary and the Hungarian farming community feel on their own skin. And the 79 thousand Hungarian farmers and food industry players gave Magos and the 17 professional organizations that supported them more than ever before. Magos and his allies received twice as many votes as they did in 2017, and five times as many as they did in 2012. It is not beside the fact that the ratio of valid votes in this single-time election was 99.3 percent. Because in the Chamber elections, besides Magos, the National Association of Agricultural Cooperatives and Producers, held by the Balliberal Political elite, could have started, but they did not. Obviously, they did not want to run into a nasty defeat like that five years ago, when only 11,6 percent of the votes were collected. Instead, farmers were encouraged to refrain from voting. Well, I think it was a strong message for them, too, the current record participation rate. Dear fellow Members, In the parliamentary elections, the fourth two-thirds mandate represents huge trust capital and strong legitimacy. This outstanding result was compared with the votes of Hungarian farmers, with large-scale rural votes. Even then and last Friday, it was proven that domestic farmers not only feel responsible for their own, but also for the fate of their peers and the country as a whole. With its activity, the Hungarian economy has proven that it is a serious factor, who is worth and should be taken into account. The stability of agriculture is of particular importance for the future of the countryside. During the pandemic, it has also been proven that agriculture is a strategic sector. The Russian-Ukrainian war has made it even more important. We need to increase the efficiency of production, which requires investment. This is why the government's decision to increase the domestic share of rural development resources from 17.5 percent to 80 percent is of great importance, raising significantly, and tripled this framework precisely. No question, a strong Hungary must be the basic element of strong agriculture. Magos is now authorized to continue the journey. [[12.20]] We intend to continue to work in close cooperation with the government with this mandate and its responsibilities. We are counting on you, and I can assure you that the Hungarian government can count on farmers. Let's build a future of agriculture together. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-05-24-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Sándor Farkas, Minister of State, wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Minister.
u2022-05-24-31	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, For us, the Hungarian countryside is the country's base, its precious resource, the backbone of our country. In the government and the Agricultural Ministry, we have always believed in the power of farmers who maintain the countryside. Taking into account the Chamber's proposals, the government provides an unprecedented amount of resources for agriculture to increase the national co-financing of rural development resources to 80%, as my fellow Member has already said. As a result, some HUF 4265 billion is expected to be spent by 2027 to strengthen domestic agriculture and the food industry and to improve the competitiveness of rural areas. Hungarian farmers have also been successful in the challenging and demanding situations of the past few years. It is not enough that the Covid epidemic, market anomalies, increases in energy prices, swine fever, avian influenza, weather factors have made production difficult, drought damage, frost damage are no longer mentioned. Now it is the uncertainty caused by the Russian-Ukrainian war, which is no small test, because it makes farmers difficult, yet everyone had good food and drink on their table every day. This is thanks to the Hungarian economy. The result of their work is that this has been achieved. Thanks, recognition and thanks to them from here, because it was a superhuman achievement and work that they did. At the same time, the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy has a major role to play in our achievements, which is a link between farmers and agricultural governments. Ten years ago, Parliament adopted the new Chamber Act, whereby the Chamber of Agriculture became a public body carrying out municipal and public tasks in the field of agricultural farming, and the most important task being a professional organisation representing the interests of all Hungarian farmers. Each member of the Chamber shall have the right to participate in the election of county delegates, to be elected as delegates or members of the body bodies, to hold office in the delegation or in the body bodies. The Chamber elections were held on 20 May, in which the chamber members could vote for the county delegates' lists. There were 361 voting districts throughout the country. Highly many, some 79 thousand people voted in favour, the participation was nearly twice the size of the last Chamber elections in 2017. In short, the Association of Hungarian Farmers' and Farmers' Associations is called Magos -17 in cooperation with professional organisations, implementing the representation of all actors in the agricultural sector. Magos and his 17 allies were given greater authority than ever before. The National Chamber of Agricultural Economy is an unavoidable social, economic and market factor, and the results of the Chamber elections have also been recognised by the members who have cast their vote. Among other things, I voted personally for the delegates of the Chamber of Agriculture, and I would just like to note it, my honourable fellow Member. At the same time, I believe that the Chamber elections have given the Hungarian economy a power, an opportunity that will determine the life of the countryside for a long time. Rural people, who are engaged in agriculture and farming, know very well that this organization, these organisations that represent their interests, and very much cooperation, joint thinking, joint work and not least, we ask for their opinion, we agree on many occasions, and this gives us the strength to say with a calm conscience that in recent years the Hungarian agricultural economy has not only become a strategic sector, but also a success sector. These development resources, which we will support together with the Chambers, will create and create a complete strengthening of the countryside, which I congratulate the Chamber and the elected officials. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-05-24-32	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'm taking a 13-hour break now. We will then continue our work with decisions, no later than 13:00. Thank you very much for your time. (Recess: 12.25-13.03) President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: László Földi and Dávid Dócs)
u2022-05-24-33	Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! I welcome you all with love. We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. In today's decisions, we also decide to accept proposals requiring a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the decision-making rule of 50. § 3, if Parliament does not adopt a provision requiring a qualified majority in the final vote of the bill or a proposal for a resolution, this shall extend without any further specific decision to the withdrawal of the provision indicating the fundamentality of the non-approved regulation. In this case, the final vote by a simple majority shall take place on the text of the proposal thus amended. Before we begin the voting procedure, we have a presence check in order to verify the functioning of the voting machines. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. [[Attendance check.]] There are 177 Members present, away from 22. Parliament has a quorum. T/48 on the amendment of certain laws to the Act on the Listing of Ministries of Hungary. on the regularity of the proposal for an excessive amendment to bill No 72. § 1 of the Rules of Procedure and, in the event of their adoption, of the proposal for an excessive amendment, the decision on the proposal for a summary amendment and the final vote. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment is T/48/5, and T/48/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee is separate from the summarised amendment proposal, T/48/6. It also submitted a proposal for an amendment that went beyond the scope of the proposal and T/48/7 at the same time as the submission. No 72 of the Rules of Procedure. § (1) has been proposed. First on the regularity of the over-extensive amendment proposal and then on Article 72. § (1) of the Act requires a decision to be taken on a proposal. If this is adopted, we will decide on the proposal for an over-extending amendment. This is followed by a decision on the proposal for a summary amendment, followed by the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, We are now deciding on the regularity of the excessive amendment proposal. The resolution house rule is 71. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 44 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, Parliament decides without debate that the extension of the proposed amendment is linked to the content of a duly amended proposal or to the House Rule 44 of the Rules of Procedure. If it is clearly necessary to enforce the criteria set out in paragraph 1 of Section 1. Before the decision is taken, the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee may speak within a total of four minutes' time frame. The rapporteur may then state his position within a two-minute time frame. The Legislative Committee has indicated in advance that it does not present a rapporteur. I would like to ask you now that there is someone on the part of the authors who would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. Now it's time to make a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the T/48/6 renders it legal. The proposal for an over-expansive amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament has declared the proposal for an amendment extending by 135 votes in favour, 44 votes against and 1 abstention in order. [[Nacsa Lőrinc pointing towards Lajos Kósa: Mr President! Lajos Kósa: Mr President, I have cast my vote, but the machine has not returned my call! I wish to vote in favour. But the machine didn't call back. My card's in there. Please note that I voted in favour.]] Thank you very much. I ask you, Congressman, to correct your card because we cannot look at it during the vote. Please record the notaries, Mr Lajos Kósa's vote is yes; that is, an additional 1 yes. Accordingly, the number of yeses is 135 plus 1. We'll get back to work. Now the resolution house rule is 72. § (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee is T/48/7. In its proposal No 72, the House Rules of Decision No 72. § 1 suggests to the Parliament that the House Rule of Decisions on the excessive amendment proposal is 71. Paragraph 3 (a) to (c) shall not apply. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Parliament's contribution requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to agree to the T/48/7. T/48/6. With regard to the excessive amendment proposal No 71, the House Rules of the Decision Paragraph 3 (a) to (c) shall not apply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] - Paragraph 8 shall not apply. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament agreed to the proposal by 136 votes in favour, 45 votes against and no abstentions. I'll ask Congressman Lajos Kósa, his computer worked fine. [[Lajos Kósa: Yes. It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]] Thank you very much. We are now deciding on the adoption of an over-extensive amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of point 1 of this Article, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on a point requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/48/6. Point 1 requiring a majority of the duly overextensive amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted by 136 votes in favour, 45 votes against and no abstentions, the point requiring a qualified majority of the proposal for an overextensive amendment. [[13.10]] We are now deciding on a further point 2, which requires a simple majority, of the overextensive amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/48/6. Point 2 of its duly overextensive amendment proposal requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the simple majority of the amendment proposal by 136 votes in favour, 45 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that points 4, 7 to 11, 12 of this point are set out in point 43. § 1 and paragraphs 31, 32, 34, 72, 234 Paragraph 1 and paragraphs 75, 77 and 81 of the Act require a qualified majority, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the points requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/48/5. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 136 votes in favour, 45 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/48/5. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment which require a simple majority by 135 votes in favour, 46 votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. In view of the fact that the Parliament has adopted the proposal for an amendment which is duly overextensive and the overall amendment proposal, the final vote will decide on the whole of the single proposal containing the proposal for an excessive amendment. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Their adoption requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/48/9. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 136 votes in favour, 45 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/48/9. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 135 votes in favour, 45 votes against and no abstentions. Next up is T/27 on the regulatory issues related to emergency resolution. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/27/11. T/27/12. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that the House Rule of Decision is 48. Under paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed to maintain Amendment 4. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 4 is proposed by Dániel Z. Kárpát. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 44 votes in favour, 134 votes against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/27/11. A summary amendment was proposed. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 135 votes in favour, 45 votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Their adoption requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/27/13. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 136 votes in favour, 45 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/27/13. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 135 votes in favour, 45 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, Next up is the T/25th amendment of the Hungarian Fundamental Law. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment and final vote. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment is T/25/7 and T/25/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament. I ask the Honourable Parliament, therefore, if the Legislative Committee accepts T/25/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 136 votes in favour, 36 votes against and 1 abstention. [[13.20]] It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, pursuant to Article S (2) of the Fundamental Law, the adoption of a proposal to amend the Fundamental Law requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/25/9 on the 10th amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 136 votes in favour, 36 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, It follows the 2011 CXXVIII on disaster management and the amendment of certain related laws. T/26. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the bill requiring a qualified majority. Their adoption requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/26. The provisions of bill No 1 requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the bill requiring a qualified majority by 136 votes in favour, 45 votes against and no abstentions. We now decide on the provisions of the bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/26. The provisions of bill No 1 which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the bill requiring a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 45 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm taking a 16-hour break now. (Speech:13.22 16.03) President: László Fat Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Szűcs)
u2022-05-24-34	The President of the Republic is coming. [[Katalin Novak, President of the Republic, takes the seat in the President's box.]] Please stand up. [[The people in this room stand up. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down. The representatives of DK, Dialogue, Momentum and Jobbik are not in the Chamber.]] Dear Parliament, Allow me to extend my compliments to President Katalin Novak. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] Prime Minister Viktor Orbán (Applause from the benches of the governing parties). ), all former and current public officials, leaders of Hungarian and cross-border historical churches, representatives of foreign Hungarian communities, members of diplomatic bodies, Hungarian representatives of the European Parliament, Members of Parliament, representatives of national minorities, as well as all our dear guests, representatives of the Hungarian and foreign press and everyone who monitors our work. Dear House, I would like to inform you that the candidates for ministers have been heard by the relevant parliamentary committees, supported by their appointment. According to Article 16 (7) of the Fundamental Law, ministers are appointed and dismissed by the President of the Republic on a proposal from the Prime Minister. Ms Katalin Novák, President of the Republic, sent a transcript of the appointment of ministers to the President of the Parliament. I would like to ask Mr. Lajos Szűcs to present the transcript.
u2022-05-24-35	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I would like to inform the Parliament that on the proposal of the Prime Minister János Csák, Minister of Culture and Innovation pursuant to Article 9 (four) (c) and Article 16 (7) of the Fundamental Law, [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. János Csák stands up to thank you for your applause.]] Mr Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Gergely Gulyás stands up to thank you for your applause.]] Mr János Lázár, Minister of Construction and Investment [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. John Lazarus, standing up, thanks for the applause.]] Dr. István Nagy, Minister of Agriculture [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. István Nagy, standing up, thanking you for your applause.]] Mr István Nagy, Minister for Economic Development [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. István Márton Nagy stands up to thank you for your applause.]] Dr. Tibor Navracsics as Minister for Regional Development Dr. László Palkovics as Minister of Technology and Industry [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. László Palkovics stands up to thank you for your applause.]] Dr. Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Sándor Pintér, standing up, thank you for your applause.]] Mr Antal Rogán, Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Antal Rogán stands up to thank you for your applause.]] Dr. Zsolt Semjén, Minister for National Policy, Nationality Policy, Church Policy and Church Diplomacy [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Zsolt Semjén, standing up, thanking you for your applause.]] Mr Kristóf Szalay-Bobrovniczky, Minister of Defence [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Kristóf Szalay-Bobrovniczky stands up to thank you for your applause.]] Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Peter Szijjártó, standing up, thanks for the applause.]] Dr. Judit Varga as Minister of Justice [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Judi Varga, standing up, thanking you for your applause.]] Mr Mihály Varga, Minister of Finance [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Michael Varga, standing up, thanking you for your applause.]] I appointed him with effect from 24 May 2022. Budapest, 23 May 2022 Yours sincerely, Katalin Novak. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-05-24-36	Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the ministers' presentation. I invite Prime Minister Viktor Orbán to present the members of his government.
u2022-05-24-37	Your Honour, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, At the will of the voters, I have been standing here for the fourth and the fifth time since 2010 to present the members of the new government of Hungary. Although not the first time I have complied with the request of the President of the Republic, the situation is unique in Hungary's more than three decades of history after 1990. I thank the voters that on 3 April the will of the people was expressed with unprecedented clarity. [[16.10]] Since 1990, there has never been a government as big and united as the electoral will of the cabinet that is now taking office. This is partly earned, partly advanced trust. I expect the members of the government to keep the trust they have gained and to make the trust they have given them come true. This will be a particularly trying task, because we have barely recovered from the corona virus, and we have a war in our neighbourhood, and the compass is confused in Brussels, so we cannot rely on help from it. I have been a Member for 32 years and I have been involved in foreign policy, but I have never seen such uncertainty about the future as today. Together, strong electoral will and the uncertainty of the future place greater responsibility on the new government than ever before. The decade 2020-2030 is a time of danger, uncertainty and war: a coronal virus epidemic in 2020-21, a war in our eastern neighbour since the beginning of 2022. As a result, there has been a surge of refugees, an unprecedented increase in energy and raw materials prices and inflation in the world, our continent and our country. At the same time, I am threatened by XXI. The largest geopolitical reorganization of the century and a global energy and food crisis. The energy and food crisis destabilizes the populous but fragile countries, which can trigger new wars and even more migration than in 2015. This is a huge challenge for the richer half of the world, including Hungary. This would also be a serious task for a brilliantly managed European Union in exploding form. But today, the European Union is all brilliantly controlled organisations, but not in exploding form, but rather we see delays, confused ideologies, rash and unreasonable decisions. Hungary cannot afford the luxury of irresponsibleness, disintegration and weakness in such an era. In other words, we now need a truly good government, which is responsible, which unites the country, and which is strong enough. The dangers, and especially the war, define the tasks of the following Hungarian government: to preserve and even strengthen the physical, material and intellectual, cultural security of the Carpathian Basin and Hungary, to support Hungarian families, to make Hungarian businesses strong and to keep the Hungarian economy on a growth path. I have asked the members of the next government of Hungary to work together in this regard. Dear House, I would like to inform my fellow Members that the candidates for ministers have been heard by the competent committees of Parliament and their appointment has been supported by a large majority. I have asked Secretary Judit Varga to lead the Ministry of Justice. The Minister of Justice must enforce the Fundamental Law, protect constitutionality, and therefore grant him veto rights to all ministerial proposals. Ferenc Deák's wallet is also responsible for the government's EU relations today, and nobody envys you. The Minister has been a strong representative of the Hungarian national interest in the debates in Brussels and we expect it to continue to be so in the future. This will still not be easy, so I wish you much strength and perseverance! [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Judi Varga, looking around, thanking you for your applause.]] I asked Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of the Interior, because we served together for 16 years, in 16 years he performed all the tasks entrusted to him with exemplary precision, so he enjoys my unconditional trust. He restored public security, radically reduced crime, spectacularly reduced crimes against both wealth and human life, rejuvenated and renewed the police, restored the honor and respect of the staff, the age of police jokes expired. The law enforcement agencies have gained inexorable merit during the corona virus epidemic and during the refugee crisis in Ukraine. Hungary will also need these capabilities in the next period. Minister, he has organised a public service system to help hundreds of thousands of unemployed people in difficulty back into the labour market. During the reorganisation of the municipal system and the management of the medical operational tribe, we have all seen that it will solve the rapid restructuring of any large public organisation system. Although we continue to call his ministry the Ministry of the Interior, it is actually the Ministry of Home Affairs. In politics, my dear friends, experience is the greatest value that really matters, so let him manage the most difficult areas. I wish the Minister good luck. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Sándor Pintér, looking around, thank you for your applause.]] As Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén continues to be responsible for promoting matters concerning our historic churches and our Hungarian communities in the Carpathian Basin. All Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians. If that is so, and so it is, then Zsolt Semjén is the ministerial responsibility of representing the Hungarians as a whole. We expect him to make the idea of a united Hungarian nation as enshrined in the Fundamental Law come true in everyday life. The Christian Democratic People's Party is the intellectual, ideological core of the government, so I welcome the President of the Christian Democratic People's Party with special respect to my government. I wish you good luck. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Zsolt Semjén, looking around, thank you for your applause.]] In fact, the Ministry of Minister János Csák should be called the Ministry of Future Affairs. Its portfolio includes family policy, culture, higher education, vocational training and innovation. In the European Union, Hungary makes the most of supporting families and culture. Hungary's higher education is closing in on these areas, where the most important developments in the last 30 years have started. Minister, you have a complex task ahead of you, your work requires a special personality who knows the business world, does not get lost in the modern mazes of spiritual disputes, is disciplined at the same time, but is looking for ways to move beyond the limitations of today's realities. We need a real Klebelsberg character. Good luck with the big adventure. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Looking around, John Csák thanks you for your applause.]] I asked Minister Mihály Varga to be Minister of Finance. Hungary was among the first to recover from the economic downturn caused by the coronal virus epidemic. Mr Minister's foresight has enabled the balance between budgetary discipline and economic growth to be maintained. In advance of the curve, we have overcome the unprecedented consequences of the coronal virus epidemic, Greece and Portugal, in terms of economic development. We expect the same now when the war has put the economy to another test. I asked Minister to maintain the balance between the budget and economic growth, which I believe is the basis for Hungary's development, if necessary, in the four years ahead. The Minister and I became Members of Parliament in 1990, and it is an honor to be able to fight with you for 32 years, and I am pleased to continue working together for decades. I wish you good luck. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Mihály Varga, looking around, thank you for your applause.]] [[16.20]] Dear House, In the next period there is a major transformation of industry and energy. I asked Minister László Palkovics to continue the technological and industrial policy revolution that we have launched in the past four years. There is no doubt that Minister has the most complicated government task: to put the Hungarian energy system to the challenges of the new era, to address the dangers arising from uncertain energy supply chains, to address the growing demand for consumption, to address the situation caused by rising global energy prices, to reduce economic emissions and to coordinate economic growth and environmental aspects, and all at the same time. I don't know if that's possible, but if there's anyone who can do this, it's Minister Palkovics, the Széchenyi Prize winner. Good luck. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. László Palkovics stands up to thank you for your applause.]] Minister István Nagy has the agricultural purse. At first sight, it seems that the one who received this task was only difficult to be born. [[Defiance.]] In recent years, we have made great progress: the country can supply 20 million people with food. The skyrocketed cereal prices are a problem in many areas, but much of the Hungarian agriculture is more profitable. National support for rural development will increase at rocket speed. Hungarian farmers can definitely overcome the disadvantage that arose during communism against the Western European agricultural world. But there is another side to the coin: a serious global food crisis is imminent, the effects of which will have to be prevented by the minister. The foreign trade position of the Hungarian agriculture must be further strengthened, i.e. the ministerial velvet chair will not be as comfortable as it seems at first sight. Minister, the Hungarian countryside is counting on you. Welcome to the government. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. István Nagy gives a round of applause.]] Tibor Navracsics is an old warrior in the government. It is well known that it has serious internal political, EU and administrative experience, so I asked you to re-establish your knowledge in the government's service and to assume the position of minister responsible for territorial development and the most efficient use of EU funds is not a very grateful task. I have never seen Members or mayors satisfied with developments. Tibor Navracsics served as a group leader for years after 2006, then, as Minister, he played a crucial role in the reorganization of the entire Hungarian state in the years after 2010. For half a decade, the Commission of the European Union has been a Hungarian Commissioner. He has the best chance of not being grinded between the bureaucrats in Brussels and the millwheels of Hungarian representatives. Welcome back to the government, Minister. Security, defense, deterrence, defense, army in the coming years will be the most frequently heard words. I have asked Mr. Kristóf Szalay-Bobrovniczky, Minister of Defence. The war in our country's neighbourhood proves how irresponsible it has been throughout Europe that the army and defence have been pushed into the background and even questioned at times its right to exist. The current war confirmed that we made the right decision to launch the Zrínyi military development program years ago. If this is achieved, Hungary will not only have one of the most powerful armies in the region in a few years, but will also become a military industrial center. The task is more important than ever in the last 30 years. I wish the Minister good luck. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Kristóf Szalay-Bobrovniczky gives a round of applause.]] Dear House, Continuing relations between government and citizens is a crucial factor in democracy. This is a difficult task, the work is also made difficult by the masses of data protection legislation, the understandable sensitivity of citizens and the ongoing attacks of the opposition. It won't be any different now. I have asked Minister Antal Rogán to resolve this task. The principles and objectives behind government decisions should be known to the democratic public as a whole. In this war decade, it is especially important for those who agree with us and those who disagree to know why we are doing this. During the next period, the country's independence and the sovereignty of Hungary will be subject to numerous attacks. Protecting sovereignty is the prime duty of the Prime Minister. In this work, I will expect, first and foremost, Minister. Thank you for saying yes to my request. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Antal Rogán looks around to thank you for your applause.]] I asked János Lázár to lead the Ministry of Construction and Investment. We should actually call this the Ministry of National Construction. In the past, this task was a fragmented area between the ministries. Today, fragmentation has become a back door. The growing commodity prices, the economic effects of the war, the expected recession in Europe, the cautiousness of investors will complicate our lives. The role of Minister is no less than the efficient use of public resources for investment, the renewal of construction rules and the protection of our built heritage and the representation of civil good taste in construction. János Lázár was a successful faction leader, State Secretary and Minister. He's got a good chance right now. Welcome back to the government. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. John Lazarus, standing up, thanks for the applause.]] Martin the Great will be our Minister for Economic Development. We all know that the European economy is in great trouble. If Hungary wants to develop, we will need new, unorthodox, innovative steps. Release from the currency trap, the tax policy turnaround, the pricestop institutions were all such solutions. I hope there's more of that left up our sleeve. You're gonna have to dig these out and use them for the minister. I expect you to help the country's development with innovative economic policy proposals based on Hungarian mentality, even taking the risk that there will be a large number of them with which you will not only make friends in the near future. The Minister was former Vice-President of the Central Bank, so he can live on the back of the ice; this knowledge will be needed now. I wish you courage, strength and good health for your work. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. István Márton Nagy stands up to thank you for your applause.]] I asked Minister Péter Szijjártó to continue to represent Hungarian national interests with his usual tirelessness. Strengthen our relations with our allies and look for new opportunities for trade and investment. I ask you to play every instrument, to be as smart as a snake and gentle as a dove; but most of all to achieve what is necessary. In the future, Minister Szijjártó is also responsible for the Paks II investment. This work, together, would require more people, but the Minister has demonstrated in recent years that he can be in several places at once. I wish you good luck. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Peter Szijjártó, standing up, thanks for the applause.]] [[16.30]] Old men to council, young men to battle! That's why four years ago I asked Minister Gergely Gulyás, who hasn't been willing to grow old. [[It's a rare blur.]] His task is strategic planning, so he needs to see not only ministries but also a whole country. I expect him to coordinate the operation of the ministries, to represent a culture of respect and cooperation, and to develop the techniques of this. This job never ends. You'll get another four years on this mission. This ministry is also the government's lightning rod, so I would ask him to boldly represent the government's arguments in the debates on Hungary of a spiritual nature, both at home and abroad. I wish the Minister good luck. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Gergely Gulyás, looking around, thank you for your applause.]] Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As the list of the new government shows, Hungary can start with a strong and strong, crisis-resistant and bright future for the years ahead. We, the members of the Hungarian Government, undertake to represent Hungarian national interests, defend Hungarian freedom and sovereignty in proportion to the weight of the task on us. We are counting on the support of the congressional ladies and gentlemen. Please help us with our work. The Good God above all of us, Hungary above all. Let's go, Hungary! Let's go, Hungarians! [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-24-38	Dear Parliament, Pursuant to Article 16 (8) of the Fundamental Law, I declare that, with the appointment of ministers, the Government of Hungary was established. Now it's time for the solemn oath of the members of the government. I ask you to hear the ministers' oaths stand. [[The people present will stand up. The commanding officer comes in through the entrance to the President's pulpit and requests permission from the Speaker to import national and historical flags from the centre of the Chamber, who grants the authorization. In addition to the sound of the fanfares, the wardens march on both sides of the presidential pulpit with the flags.]] Dear House, I'd like to ask Mr. Lajos Szűcs to read the words of the oath.
u2022-05-24-39	I,... vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law; to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; to exercise my office as a minister for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2022-05-24-40	Have a seat. [[The people present will take their seats.]] Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of all of us and my members of the government, to wish you successful work, good luck and good health. Now I ask the members of the government to sign the oath papers. Dear House, Before the solemn oath is concluded, please stand up and sing the Anthem together. [[They stand up in the room and sing the Anthem together. The commander of the decorative guard comes forward, and the flags leave the meeting room at his signal and at the sound of the fanfares. The people present will sit down.]] Dear House, We've reached the end of the solemn oath. I thank our guests for honoring the solemn oath. I will now take a 15-minute break before the speeches on the agenda. (Sunning: 16.37 16.52) President: Dr. Lajos Oláh Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Szűcs)
u2022-05-24-41	Ladies and gentlemen, We would like to move on to the speeches after the agenda. Please take your seats. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. For a post-meeting speech, Mr.Orbán Novák submitted to the attention of the representatives of Fidesz: Trianon is not a celebration. I give you the floor, Congressman, in five minutes. Here you go.
u2022-05-24-42	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, At the end of the last plenary session before the anniversary of our country's greatest tragedy, I invite everyone to a Trianon memorial to the Embassy of Ukraine. During the Horthy era, there was a national minimum of revision policy, and then during the decades of socialism Trianon commemorations were banned, and immediately after the regime change, on 4 June 1990 there was a plenary session, a Monday session, when Speaker George Szabad asked for only one minute of silent standing here in the church of the nation, but the representatives of Fidesz withdrew in protest, as they did today, and now this commemoration was not left in the benches of Fidesz, despite the fact that my address had already been published last week. It's been ten years since 1990. In 2000, when there could also have been a Jubilee Trianon commemoration here in the National Assembly, because on the day after the anniversary there was a serious parliamentary election meeting, János Áder did not even ask for a one-minute silent commemoration, so they did not even have to withdraw in protest. Then ten more years passed, and with dozens and hundreds of under-organized Trianon memorials and monuments from all over the country, we have finally managed to raise the Trianon memorials to the state level, even if not in the way we would have liked it to have been painted a little orange, often called a celebration, even here, in the Parliament and throughout the country, fidesz politicians and mediums. They are talking about the celebration of national cohesion on the day of mourning of national fragmentation, because we know that Trianon has not been corrected until today. If we want to celebrate, of course there is a way. It is possible to celebrate the Raggyos Guard, or let us suggest here with the Hungarian Movement in Parliament that the anniversary of the second Viennese decision, the day of the return of Northern Transylvania, could be included as official state memorial day and as a holiday in Parliament's resolution as the day of return, the National Assembly could declare this. So if you want to celebrate, there's a way. But right now, we have to protest and protest. The traditional Trianon parade of the Sixty-four Vármegye Youth Movement will take place again this year for the 21st time, but, as HVIM announced, this demonstration will now take place at the embassies where the most powerful discrimination against the Hungarian minority will take place, so where they show the most chauvinistic behavior. This is why we are marching on 4 June to the Hungarian embassy of Ukraine, the XII. Istenhegyi út 84 district, where Gábor Barcsa-Turner, president of HVIM, László Toroczkai, Mi Hazank, Zsolt Tyirityán, Attila Betyárs Army and László, leader of the Hungarian Self-Defense Movement. In front of Ukraine's embassy, we also protest against the unconditional support of Ukraine's accession to the EU as soon as possible, both by government and almost by conflict. Only the Hungarian Movement protests against this in Parliament, although it is the same mistake and sin, the same national treason as the support for Romania's unconditional accession to the EU on 26 September 2005 here in the Hungarian Parliament. This happened a year after Viktor Orbán said so nicely that Hungary should take advantage of the veto. And it was a huge mistake, indeed, to lay down the most serious weapon of diplomacy in the face of the Soviet Romanian power, and now they are preparing for the same thing in the case of Ukraine. Although in the days before the vote in 2005, the Székely National Council, the Transylvanian Hungarian Civic Association and many well-known personalities, such as the dissipator of the autonomy of Transcarpathia, Géza Jeszenszky asked that only if the minority rights of the Transylvanian Hungarians were to contribute to the Romanian EU accession, there were no members of the Fidesz who would have refused to give up national interests, Viktor Orbán himself pressed the yes button, even though the National Assembly was not forced to make a decision, as it was a hasty second to ratify the Romanians' EU accession agreement without any conditions. They are now preparing for an unconditional EU accession and support for Ukraine, which would be similar to treason. Therefore, although the representatives of Fidesz are not present, let us put social pressure on this new treason. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Let's end this and meet before Ukraine's embassy on June 4th. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-05-24-43	Péter Balassa, from Jobbik's group, applied for a post-meeting speech: "Everyone deserves a chance to survive! It's an address. I give you the floor, Congressman, here you go.
u2022-05-24-44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you with all due respect for the opportunity. Dear House, Everyone deserves a chance to survive. I would like to talk about a case that affects nearly 700-800 thousand people in Hungary today, if I look at my narrower Patriot, it means Győr-Moson-Sopron County and Vas County. What am I talking about? There have been decisions of principle, but nothing has happened in practice. If I may, I would like to read you a letter of citizenship, a quote from which, I understand, every member of the government and opposition in the region has received. I got the letter from Németh Martin. In his letter, he writes about a burning problem involving hundreds of thousands of people that needs to be resolved as soon as possible. Because of the location of the country's air rescue bases, there is a huge white spot west of the Raba. Air rescue bases in Hungary cover most of the country, giving citizens the chance to save fast helicopter, but this is not the case in the Western parts of the country. The air bases of Sármellék and Balatonfüred are too far away, and the machines of these bases are often not available in time. What does that mean? If you look at international standards and standards in Hungary, you know that today, according to regulations, 15 minutes is the limit within which ambulances and rescue helicopters must arrive in an accident, in any accident. What does that mean? In accordance with EU regulations, Hungarian air rescuers comply with these requirements, but there are blind spots to which Mr. Martin Németh mentioned in the letter. [[17.00]] What am I thinking? I'm thinking about what time it is. Time means very, very much, it can save lives, and we never know who's in danger, our friends, relatives, brothers or even acquaintances. If someone looks at what a minute means, a minute means that in a resuscitation, we have a 10 percent chance of increasing the possibility of someone remaining alive. If there are countries only five minutes, or even compared to the EU average, where they took them eight minutes, 10 minutes, we can increase the chances of survival by up to 30-40 percent. I wanted to present a map of the air bases in Hungary, but I would rather say and illustrate what air rescue looks like in Hungary today. If you look at it from the Danube line, in East Hungary, Debrecen, Miskolc and Szentes are the settlements where we have the bases, and in the capital Budaörs and in the West Hungary, Pécs, Balatonfüred and Sármellék are the settlements from which they can launch rescue helicopters from air bases for people suffering from accidents. What appears in the letter very, very thoroughly, and one of my speeches today would be an alpha, omega, that the scope of these air bases is barely 15 minutes from the Sarmels. What does that mean? It means that Sárvár, Csorna, Mosonmagyaróvár, Győr, these settlements are located on or outside the 15 minutes limit. We would in any way initiate the establishment of an air base in this area. If someone reads the professional material and goes to the side of the air rescue base, then the first line of the rescue mission is:. The rescue is a state task. In other words, the problem must also be solved by the State. You should take action now, because it is not enough to detect the problem and then expect something to happen. There were plans. In Mihályi or Sárvár, in the southern part of Győr-Moson-Sopron county, an air rescue facility was designed to keep the 15-minute landing time at the western border. Sárvár has already taken concrete steps at the request of the air rescuers. The settlement plan has also been amended, but the investment has not started. István Kondora, mayor of Sárvár said years ago that the connection of the busy main roads, extensive tourism and enormous industrial potential in Sárvár makes it possible to get close to the help. To add, the same is true of Szombathely, Győr, Sopron, Csorna and Mosonmagyaróvár. These cities are really far from Sármellék and Balatonfüred. Since two counties are involved, I call on Members to support my initiative and to take concrete action on this matter. The government will also name the competent ministry that will develop plans for the Western Transdanubian rescue helicopter base, assign the necessary resources and other means, coordinate with the representatives and set deadlines as soon as possible. It would be comforting for people living in the area if the costs of setting up and maintaining the base were included in the 2023 budget on a separate line of items. In my final thoughts, I would like to thank every paramedic, every single nurse, everyone who works in health care. My speech today was also about making a well-functioning system even better. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-05-24-45	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of Parliament will take place as recommended by the House Committee. Thank you for the work of the notaries, thank you for the work of Parliament's colleagues for today. The session is now closed.
