u2022-07-19-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 2nd day of the 5th extraordinary session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Mr Attila Gelencsér and Mr Dániel Z. Karpát will be here to help me. I welcome all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, I declare that the resolution house rule is 3. § 2 and Art. Pursuant to paragraph 3 of § 3, the Group of the Momentum Movement elected Mr Ferenc Gelencsér as Head of the Group from 19 July 2022. I thank Mr. András Fekete-Győr for his work so far. Allow me, on behalf of Parliament and myself, to wish Ferenc Gelencsér effective work and good luck. Dear Parliament, Máté Kanász-Nagy, representative of the LMP, applied for a pre-meeting speech. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-07-19-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Unfortunately, in the context of the energy crisis and the climate crisis, exactly what we greens have always talked about is what could have been foreseen for years, decades ago. With regard to the energy crisis and the climate crisis, the question was not whether it would happen, the question was when it would happen. The government woke up relatively late, because even three weeks ago they ridiculed the fact that they were saving water in Germany, and now the representatives of the government are talking about saving water here in Hungary. The reason why this crisis can affect us more strongly here in the eastern part of Central Europe is because the government has gone in the wrong direction over the last 12 years; it has delivered this country to the western capital, the multinationals, and it has delivered Hungary to fossil fuels. In fact, the exploitation of human resources and environmental resources has been put to the top. Within the models of capitalism, they chose a pretty bad version, by the way, this is a model of the center and half-periphery, where we play the role of half-periphery. In this model, catching up with the West is also a false promise, because how can you catch up with the West when Western companies, multi-millionaires, make a lot of profits out of here? But not only was this the only mistake of the government that led to the energy crisis and to the increase in the effects of the climate crisis, but they were also wrong when the ever-built and never-recoverable Paks II investment was being poured or plans to pour the billions. They were wrong when wind power plants were banned in Hungary; they were wrong when they decided to increase hydrocarbon dependence; they were wrong when they supported the multinationals with tax incentives; they were wrong when the kata was abolished for hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs and the small businesses were humiliated. And let's be honest, they promised Hungarian people a future that wasn't realistic 30 years ago. A future that can be consumed calmly, resources will be abundant, defenseless and always cheap. This has been done in a world of climate change, where, unfortunately, water scarcity is increasing, where there is a constant drought to be expected, and where, by the way, the price of fossil fuels is increasing, because there are fewer and fewer of them. By the way, the Prime Minister exposed himself when he announced a reduction in the reduction of the rent, as he spoke about the fact that in Hungary there is a need for an official price because wages are low. Well, good morning, indeed, wages are low, lower than in Western Europe. This is due to the semiperiphery model of the center, which is deliberately built. There can be a mistake, but that is a serious problem, a much more serious problem, if I were to speak harshly, I should say that it is a sin, if they do not want to correct it out of pride in this situation, and only green policy solutions can be given to the energy crisis and the climate crisis. I'll make a few suggestions. The Paks II contract must be terminated, and every single forint intended for this purpose must be spent on renewable energies; not on installing a few solar panels, but thousands of billions of forints on solar cells and wind power plants. Of course, this is my second proposal, and the ban on wind power plants should also be lifted. But there's the national building insulation program that should be started at some point. Not in the volume that has been supported so far, that they may help a few thousand households on an annual basis, but here in Hungary, on an annual basis, we should be able to isolate 100,000 households. This would mean a real reduction in costs; this would mean real job protection, because this programme would create tens of thousands of jobs for small businesses, and this would mean real climate protection, because at last we would have to heat the streets of Hungary with non-Russian gas if this were to happen. But this includes, as a green proposal, the introduction of climate leases, the promotion of more sustainable, greener public transport. It is not that they buy a few hundred electric buses, but that the whole park may be replaced, renovated, not in such small steps, but in comprehensive, national and large solutions. And that includes the introduction of a congestion charge, because it is unacceptable for us to pay the cost of driving others with our own lungs. Notice that our resources are not infinite, but finite, they run out; and note that [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] that this environment was borrowed and that it should be passed on to our offspring. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the floors of Dialogue and MSZP.]]
u2022-07-19-2	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Zsófia Koncz will respond to what has been said.
u2022-07-19-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I listened to your speech on the energy crisis and, of course, on the issue of energy security. Obviously within the European Union, and if you look at the German news, it is basically now that in Germany you are talking on a daily basis about whether heating will take place in autumn and winter. Here, too, you have criticised the past period, Congressman. My position on this is that, for example, the fact that Hungary has built the interconnectors towards six countries is simply an invaluable thing today, because this is a very important key issue of Hungarian energy security, and I think that these green proposals, which the Hungarian government is implementing in many respects, are obviously important, but what is even more important is to ensure energy supply in Hungary today. Renewable energy sources have been mentioned here. In this regard, the Hungarian Government has decided that, obviously, in view of the geographical and natural conditions, we will focus on solar energy. [[9.10]] I have good news for the Member: last week, the solar power plants in Hungary reached a peak in production. On 13 July, the total production of solar power plants exceeded 1836 megawatts, based on data from Mavir. At that time nearly 37 percent of the total electricity consumption in Hungary was covered by large solar power plants. In the current situation, this is of great importance, and I think we agree on that, because alternative energy sources contribute to ensuring the country's energy supply. I would like to draw the attention of Mr President and more to one important point. In recent times, it has been decided within the European Union that nuclear energy and natural gas are pure green energy. Without nuclear power, a sustainable climate policy cannot be envisaged. [[Bence of Turdai: That's not true!]] Here, Congressman, on investment Paks II, you may have said that it will never be made. I think that maybe we had this kind of feeling when we built the M4 metro, and I really felt that this investment would never happen, and then this government was able to achieve it, thanks to István Tarlós. [[Bence of Turda: And your Russian friends, right?]] So I think nuclear energy, nuclear energy, is clearly a key issue of sustainable climate policy, in which we would rather ask for LMP's support, because without it, it would be much more difficult to secure Hungarian energy supply. I would also like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that green politicians in Germany are talking about the need to rethink the re-launching of coal power plants. So we are in a difficult, critical situation, which is basically related to the war. Here, too, I would like to ask for your support for the LMP fraction, because we believe so, and from the very beginning we are consistently in favour of this whole European situation being solved only by peace. Practically yesterday, the Norwegian Prime Minister also spoke about the energy crisis in Europe, which causes inflation and has linked it to the war in Ukraine. So basically that's what they're talking about in other parts of Europe. And we would also like to ask for cooperation and support in this, because it is clearly in the interests of the Hungarian people to have peace, and therefore this government will do everything in its power. By the way, in achieving our climate policy goals, we have the idea that by 2030, with the combined use of solar and nuclear energy, 90 percent of Hungarian electricity production should be carbon-free, and these are not technologies that trigger each other, but solutions that support each other. The development of these systems is underway, the flexibility of the electricity grid and the creation of energy storage, which is what we have also talked about here. So I would ask the Member to support the Hungarian Government's idea in these difficult times. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-07-19-4	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Rebeka Szabó, the representative of the Dialogue, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2022-07-19-5	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In recent days, you have heard from us and protestors on the street how damaging their austerity package is, how harmful the tax increase and the rusty lies they have committed, and how disappointed people are and outraged that they have lied to their voters. However, I think it is time to talk about solutions, which are fair and green, or sustainable solutions, in this situation. I'm hoping you'll remember something about it. By the way, even in 2010, even when they once had a government programme, it was written that every year they will implement the energy modernisation of 10 percent of the housing stock with state aid. This would have meant that if I had looked at 12 years, by now almost all domestic housing would be energy efficient, which would mean about 50 percent energy savings and a real, real reduction in energy bills. Instead, we are talking about the fact that the Hungarian housing population is in a catastrophic situation from an energy point of view, one of the worst in the European Union. The Dialogue has said many times that it would also call for rapid progress in the area of private housing renovations. Then I must mention that we have just heard from the secretary of state how well solar parks are doing. This is very cool, but for example, I do not understand why the wind power plant is under complete ban in Hungary. On the one hand, this is very stupid, because with own-produced renewable energy, Russian energy dependence could be basically alleviated, but it would also be important in terms of energy prices, because the existing Paks Nuclear Power Plant produces a kilowattor power for 10-12 HUF, the Hungarian wind power plants, the few that were built before the ban, produce electricity per kilowatt hour for 6-7 HUF. And if someone decided to build a wind power plant today, of course, they couldn't build it, because you forbid it, but if they did build it, maybe a few months from planning, they could build it in a year, while a new nuclear power plant, as we can see, will take 10-15 years, even if Russians didn't build the nuclear power plant with Russian credit. Here, I think it's Paks II, by the way. approx. It's never going to be built, let's just say it's better. So, in fact, they had good ideas about energy supply, but then Habony, Rogán and Finkenstein came along, and they calculated that it would certainly be much more politically beneficial for you if, instead of making good proposals for the environment, you could throw in the debt lie, which now turns out that between 2014 and 2022, during these eight years, the actual market price for energy was, for practically seven years, lower than your reduced prices. So people actually paid for a more expensive energy price than what was real, and this extra profit was not used to invest in energy efficiency, but was simply expended or migrated into the pockets of their oligarchs. I would like to point out that the energy prices did not start to rise at the beginning of the war; it was about a year ago that the price of energy was actually higher than what you calculated in the debt lie. Then they paid him off the tax secretly. Meanwhile, they fought with Brussels for years to avoid accidentally spending their subsidies on private homes or condominiums, but instead spent it on something else, such as the heated swimming pool of TEK, I imagine. In fact, we see that you have tricked the Hungarian people with a series of lies, taking us to a dead end, which means Russian dependence, Russian energy dependence. I would point out that while the gas storage capacity in Slovakia is already above 80 percent, we are currently at 40 percent, and Péter Szijjártó is now running for alternative gas sources. For the sake of Hungarian society, I sincerely hope that you will succeed. So, in fact, the forced elimination of the reduction in overhead means that the fabric you have built from lies has collapsed at once, instead of a truly sustainable and secure energy policy, not only the government, but also the majority of Hungarian households. Yet we, the representatives of the Dialogue, have repeatedly signalled the danger, and the fact is that not only is there an energy supply, but there is a multiple crisis in front of us right now. The energy crisis is turning into a crisis of millions of people's livelihoods, and it is also touching the drought, which is partly linked to the climate crisis. [[Bence Rétvári: We're just here!]] I must say that the way you deal with the food crisis and drought is also a profound disappointment. When I ask questions about it here in Parliament, I get answers that point to technology in the 1970s. You can only talk about canals and irrigation, even though you should be thinking long ago about how you can manage water in a landscape, how you can not channel floods and inland waters, but wisely keep them in the landscape and use them to keep enough water in the soil. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and so agricultural production can work. The fact is that Hungary is in crisis, so it would be better to give their place to a government of experts in the interests of the country. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause from the lines of Dialogue and LMP.]]
u2022-07-19-6	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Minister István Nagy will respond.
u2022-07-19-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Congresswoman, Allow me to reject, at the very beginning, the expression of "reciprocality" as strongly as possible. If at some point there is evidence of the truth and the effort to reduce the rent itself, then right now, because when it seems that people only have to pay at the level of average consumption, and only a small percentage of their consumption will be affected by the real market price... what a problem. So it's really a lie? Or is it what you're saying? [[Rebecca Szabó intervenes.]] Right? So what a difference there is between the two! [[9.20]] So, if there is ever evidence that the government has taken measures that are far-sighted, very responsible and out of control to protect the Hungarian families, then precisely the reduction of the rent was one of its decisions. He mentioned solar panels, greater use of wind energy. Let me say, dear Congresswoman, that there are two things in the world that need to be taken into account. One is our natural talent and the other is where technological progress is. Technological development means where we can store the energy generated by either wind or solar energy. Or rather, we still have to pay in case of overproduction so that we can sell it to the international network. Therefore, this natural energy is much more expensive than collecting from conventional energy sources. This is why the Hungarian government does not favour the greater spread of this. And our natural talents come naturally. What the hell's he doing in another country? Because its relief conditions are such that it can equalise it by turning on hydroelectric power plants; when the sun shines, when the wind blows, the reservoir capacity of the hydroelectric power plant is filled. Then when the wind stops or the sun doesn't shine, it can be released, and then the capacity of hydroelectric power plants will compensate for the need for both energy. It's economical, and it's very difficult. And because of our pool-like features in Hungary, this is not possible. We know exactly from the life of the green movement, which is falling into the period of the change of regime, when Hungary tried to do this, what social cooperation it was to prevent it from happening. We remember, don't we? So you can't pin this on the government, because it's also a responsible decision. When you ask where we have turned the resources that we would have gone from the CCP to renovate the apartments, I will tell you that, for example, the greening of the Mátra power plant, so that we do not have to pay quotas, pay a penalty for the energy generated there, but that we can green it, and that greened energy can join the Hungarian economy. He mentioned the state of charge of gas reservoirs in Slovakia. Dear Congresswoman, this is a very big trap because it doesn't matter how big that reservoir is, it doesn't matter what percentage of the country's needs it covers. On that basis, even a small pot, if it's full, we say 100 percent. And what's the demand? Let's face it clearly with reality that when we say loud voices, it's very, very far from reality. The Hungarian government's efforts to fight every day must be appreciated and appreciated precisely on these aspects. To make it so natural for us to have 480 forints of fuel. To be so natural that we buy electricity and gas at reduced prices. But we have to admit that this is not natural, that this requires a huge effort from the Hungarian economy, that we produce the source of this, that we use the profits, profits and tax revenues of the economy to do so, and that we make everyday life easier for families. And we need to talk about what led us here. Water scarcity, drought and climate change are expected to pose growing and increasing challenges to agricultural production, and their proper management requires continuous efforts by both the producer and the government. This is why we operate one of Europe's most advanced multi-pillar agricultural risk management systems, as well as progress in irrigation management. In 2019 we created the Law on Irrigation Management, which provides a precise framework condition for watering to develop to a large extent, be simpler, be cheaper, and all resources, all intentions and all wills are ensured. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-19-8	Thank you very much, Minister. Member István Szabadi, representative of Mi Hazánk, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor.
u2022-07-19-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, The population of the southern lowland region is affected by two ongoing railway developments, one of which is the renovation of Budapest-Belgrád and the other is the renovation of the Szeged-Szabadka railway line. The two railway development must be interpreted in conjunction with each other, because during the construction work of the Budapest-Kelebia railway line No. 150, the latter must provide a route from Budapest to Szabadka for freight traffic. This is why it is extremely important that the works planned in August really be completed, since until then Kelebian route development and renovation cannot be started. The topicality of the topic is important and important in several respects, because the development of the railway track Szeged-Röszke and the Röszke border, like the Serbian section, was planned to be completed by August 2022, when freight traffic would cross the border from Kelebia to Röszk. However, it is urged that the building permit expires in a week, or 26 July. My question is that there has been some measure to extend the existing building permit, because in the case of a public investment, it would be odd that a building permit no longer works and the renovation is still ongoing. On the Budapest-Kelebia full line, the passenger traffic stops from 1 May, but the renewal works between Kelebia-Kiskunhalas cannot start until the renovation between Szeged-Röszke is completed. The history of both rail development goes back many years. The letter of intent on the renewal of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line was signed by representatives of Hungary, the Republic of Serbia and the People's Republic of China on 17 January 2014, but the ceremony took more than seven years. The development of the railway development of Szeged-Szabadka started even earlier in November 2011, when a Danish company carried out a feasibility study of the railway line and in January 2014 the approval plans. By the way, Hungary and Serbia have spent almost half a billion forints on these documents using EU funds. On the basis of the preparatory documents, the building permit for the railway development of Szeged-Röszke was issued on 26 July 2017, which is valid for five years. Well, that expires in a week. However, the renovation started only one month after the Kiskunhalas foundation stone was laid, on 15 November 2021. So it's been a lot of time, seven years, when we've been waiting for something or something for this investment or this development. After such a history, it is incomprehensible that the business contract for the development of the Budapest-Kelebia railway line was concluded earlier in May 2019 than for the development of the Szeged-Röszke railway line, since the latter was only decided by the government in August 2019 and the investor MÁV Zrt. and concluded the business contract in December 2020 with V-Hid Builder Zrt. of Lőrinc Mészáros's interest. The other interesting thing is a little more fiscal. Renovation of the Serbian phase of the Budapest-Belgrád railway development is achieved from Chinese and Russian loans, the renovation of the Hungarian section is 85% from Chinese loans and 15% from budgetary sources. The difference is that while the Serbs plan the 183-mile section from 610 billion forints, the total cost of the development of the Soroksár-Kelebia 160-km long railway line is estimated at 750 billion forints. It's also a Hungaricum that state investment costs a lot more than we do. In Serbia, the Russian state railway, acting as the main contractor, works at a cost of 1.4 billion forints per km compared to the consortium of RM International Zrt., which belongs to the Hungarian representation of the Chinese railway company and to the interest of Lőrinc Mészáros. Meanwhile, the forint is weakening and the dollar is rising. And there is one more thing to draw attention to, and I see now that I don't have much time to do so, that the loan agreement with the Chinese Eximbank was concluded in April 2020 and, in the case of a loan of 1.9 billion dollars, we now have to pay back 95 billion HUF more capital, so there is more exchange rate difference This is an amazing amount. Thank you very much. [[9.30]]
u2022-07-19-10	Thank you, Congressman. The speech before the agenda will be answered on behalf of the Government by Mrs Zsófia Koncz.
u2022-07-19-11	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I am pleased that you raised the questions that have been raised today, as Parliament is about to adopt today the bill on Hungary's budget for 2023. If the Parliament adopts the proposal, the development of the transport sector from the budget of 2023 will provide more than HUF 168 billion in additional resources. From this, more than HUF 86 billion for the maintenance and operation of the road network, more than HUF 1 billion for the renovation of the national road network are included, but we also want to provide significant resources for the development of the rail sector in the budget for 2023. The budget for next year will therefore provide an opportunity to continue working both on the national road network and on rail development. Since 2010, significant resources have been mobilised to modernise fixed-track infrastructure and vehicle stock. The infrastructure, vehicle and service developments carried out provide a solid basis for a more dynamic modernisation of Community transport, improving both urban and rural quality of life. The government's strong and high priority is to ensure high-quality public transport, public services and to continuously develop them. Our aim is to provide a range of services, which are flexible, competitive, clean and quiet vehicles, to travel users in any way. Policy efforts will also focus on green and energy-efficient railways over the next 10-15 years. We also support the development of clean transport in order to protect nature and achieve our first climate neutrality goal. Hungary's central budget provides more resources to this sector year after year, in 2018 it will spend HUF 93 billion, HUF 130 billion in 22 and HUF 181 billion in 2023 on the operation of the Hungarian railway infrastructure, including renovation and maintenance. Over the last decade, 600 kilometers of railway track have been upgraded, nearly 350 kilometers of electrified, KÖFI, the central traffic management system has been built in several phases, and bridges, stations and stops have been renovated. As you asked, I would also like to mention the reconstruction of line 150. The renovation will be implemented, as our strategic goal in the field of rail freight is to make Hungary a freight transport, logistics and distribution centre in Central Europe. To achieve this goal, our priority is to achieve modern, competitive rail transport. It is undisputed that rail transport is the backbone of domestic transport, which must be passenger-friendly, innovative and sustainable. The Budapest-Belgrád railway was also mentioned. In view of the above, we consider the ongoing development of the Hungarian section of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, Soroksár-Kelebia, a major investment. On the other hand, the domestic section of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line is also part of the TEN-T core network, and Hungary's obligations to fulfil as required by the regulation should also be taken into account. The Szeged-Röszke-Szabadka railway line was also mentioned. In developing this, professionals should be careful in keeping with all legal requirements and in the interests of local residents. State Secretary Dávid Vitézy recently announced that the freight train traffic between Szeged and Subotica will start from August. Honourable Congressman, The main objectives of the planned development are to promote environmentally sound forms of transport and to develop the rail network. The government is working to increase the availability of European-quality networks and services to road users in Hungary. We hope that we can continue this work. That's what we're asking for your support. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-07-19-12	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr Zita Gurmai, Member of the MSZP, also spoke before the agenda. You have the floor.
u2022-07-19-13	Thank you very much. Dear House, The one-month event series of Budapest Pride will be over soon, but the Hungarian LGBTQ people are still here with us. They're in all of our neighborhoods, in the workplaces, in the restaurants, in the nightclubs, in the shops and here in the Parliament, everywhere. They are our fellow Hungarians, who are neither worse nor better than us. When it comes to this subject, the usual sentence comes out that I don't care what happens to LGBTQ people, they only do what they do between the four walls. Well, no program in the Budapest Pride series is about the fact that members of the LGBTQ society want to have sex outside the four walls. No, that's not what Pride Month is about, nor the Pride Parade. This approach is completely false. What you have to put between the four walls is homophobia and exclusion. Ladies and gentlemen, As a private person, you can do it within four walls of your own apartment to reject LGBTQ people, but as a parliamentary representative of a democratic and European country, you have to fight exclusion and homophobia. We must take action to ensure that all of our fellow Hungarians have the same rights and that they do not suffer any atrocities or disadvantages for their sexual affiliation. The problem is that my fellow pro-government Members do not do this, they do not stand for democracy. I am absolutely sure that none of the events of the Budapest Pride series were attended, even though a number of roundtable discussions, workshops and forums were held, where they could have met the LGBTQ people. Then it would have turned out that LGBTQ people do not differ in everyday life from other members of society and could have faced the problems that LGBTQ people still have to experience in their daily lives. If they were to get to know them, they might cease to be homophobic, because Hungarian society is developing and increasingly inclusive, increasingly accepting, thanks to the expansion of European values, the free flow of information, the democratic values from generation to generation, and thanks to celebrities, opinion-forming celebrities, political leaders, and even Pope Ferenc's supportive stand. On the other hand, the governing party and politics are trying, out of some strange motivation, to rekindle the anti-LGBTQ, homophobia and exclusion over and over again. As if there weren't enough tension in society because of the increasingly difficult livelihood, the government, the footage media, sometimes even directly incites some members of society, because what is against LGBTQ people is largely generated by pro-government politics, so you and your extreme right-wing buddies. How can a government who turns its own citizens against its own citizens call itself a national and by law prevent our countrymen from having equal rights and lives? Members of the LGBTQ society, in many human, everyday situations, are at a disadvantage, not equal to others, are treated differently, and even their rights are different. In the last 12 years, the Fidesz government has not only helped them, but, on the contrary, even legally, has ensured that our LGBTQ countrymen have no chance of a happy life, with laws and moods that may be, that the generation that is now growing up will be crippled for life, because they not only make life difficult for our already grown-up LGBTQ countrymen, but they also drive young people seeking their identity into uncertainty, despair and, as has already happened, suicide. From now on, this is no longer a LGBTQ problem, but a question of democracy, equality, the right to a free life. [[9.40]] These are the concepts that led to the change of regime, which the current government ignores. The MSZP will be at the Pride parade, and our European friends will also come to march with the participants of the parade. Come along, my fellow members of the government, on Saturday afternoon. Be there with them, it'll be an excellent atmosphere. Come and show that Hungary belongs to the good, the Europe where Prime Ministers, Presidents of the Republic and other political leaders stand up for Pride. Show us that our country does not choose the route of Erdoğani-putyini, where human rights are ignored and forced to end the Pride event. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the opposition.]]
u2022-07-19-14	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Mr Balázs Fürjes will answer.
u2022-07-19-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would very much ask you, the left, not to turn people against each other on the basis of origin, religion, or sexual orientation. [[Defiance from the opposition.]] Don't stir up anger or make such differences between Hungarian and Hungarian people! Hungary is a free country, everyone has the lifestyle they choose for themselves. This is also true in terms of sexual orientation. We do not want to educate or judge people, we do not want to dictate to them what habits they should or should not pursue, how they should live their lives. Therefore, we do not oblige or prohibit people from attending events. For adult people, everything is free in Hungary and nothing is mandatory. And you don't have to explain it, it's a non-free country where someone should explain to you if you go to an event or you have to explain that you stay away from an event. And with regard to extreme right-wing buddies, I'm asking Congresswoman to sweep around her own house. Well, you're the one who's in league with the little ones, and you're still in league with them. [[Eszter Vitalos: That's right! That's it!]] The Jobbik. With those small figures whose candidate was also supported, who said to Jewish people on religious pilgrimage that lice slides, this candidate was supported, this was your candidate, the Socialist Party candidate, who called Budapest Judapest; at the time when he called Budapest Judapest, this man, the judapest little one, was recommended to the voters as mayor as party president, but in his office in the city hall, in front of the coat of arms of the capital and the official flag of the capital. It is your ally, Jobbik, whose party president has called our honoured Hungarian fellow citizens who exercise their rights freely to attend the event you mentioned. What other terms Jobbik has used, I will not use because of the authority of the Parliament. So, when you're talking about extreme right-wing buddies, I'm asking you to clear it between us, clear it with your ally, the Jobbik, that it's the right thing to do now, to let anyone leave, or anyone in Hungary free to stay away from this event, Pride. By the way, thank you very much for the programme proposal, most of us will be in Szeklerland this weekend, and you may be welcome there as well. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-07-19-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Löcsei, representative of Momentum, also came forward before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-07-19-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, I've been a Member of Parliament for almost three months now, and I've been in a medium where there are diverse forms of human weakness. All sides are surrounded by self-interest, greed, and extreme ideas. You fidesz people lie to my face every day without blinking, smiling, cynical, and even enjoying it. You are actors, performers, and play your pre-divided role. The biggest problem is not that you are trying to lead us, opposition representatives, but that your constituents are being deceived. Ladies and gentlemen, You have had historical opportunities, EU funds have come to Hungary for the past 12 years, and you have had every opportunity to start Hungarian wages as a historic wing, to build not only a work-based society, but also a knowledge-based society, so that we will not only be a country of assembly. They had the opportunity to go to the Hungarian hospitals to heal, not to die. To exploit the reserves of domestic gypsyism, to prepare our country for the extremes of climate change, to finally start burying trenches between different social groups. They had every opportunity to eliminate political culture before 2010, instead they created a much more toxic atmosphere. One that ripped families in half made it impossible to have a normal dialogue in public life. Hungary is now more divided than ever since the change of regime. [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: The political culture before 2010?]] Instead of steering, they were producing enemy images, targeting the gays, the childless, Soros, Brussels. Instead of steering, they made enemy images, and for you, hatred and incitement can never stop. You care more about filling the pockets of your friends and family members than the livelihood of Hungarian citizens. [[Bence Rétvári: Katalin Bezzezg Czech!]] Ladies and gentlemen, It has been proven that they cannot protect Hungarian families, and instead of putting a whole society in fear of security. Teachers, medical workers, postmen, public workers, bakers, bakers, hairdressers, and I could list all the social classes you've pushed into the trench by the side of the road. They're scared because they're trying to collect the money they spent before the election from the little people, the most vulnerable. In just a few hours, 400 thousand cat entrepreneurs were in doubt, and yesterday Katalin Novák signed the new cata law. In view of these considerations, Momentum will submit a bill to ensure that the new Cata Law does not enter into force, and we will initiate an extraordinary assembly of Parliament in order to discuss and adopt our proposal as soon as possible. Millions of lives have been shaken to the ground. Their actions without desperate rushes, social consultation, planning and real calculations. Ladies and gentlemen, All their claims were false, they started with austerity after the elections, they continued with a tax increase, and now the reduction of the rent is partially abolished. At the same time, for your part, it is impolite that an economic crisis, in the midst of austerity measures, raises the salaries of themselves and their families. Thus was the Prime Minister's salary increased, the salary of the ministers, the salary of the serfs, but the salary of Judit Varga's mother-in-law also doubled. It's outrageous, it's bouncing, what you're doing, fellow Members. I didn't swear to go into the parliamentary system on Fidesz's face. It is our duty, opposition representatives, politicians, to deliver the true news to the last house of the last small settlement, to let voters know how this reigning power leads them. We have to be out there among the voters. I will do so, tomorrow at 6:00 p.m., in Eger, in Kepes György Square, we express our solidarity for ditchings, educators, and all those who have been thrown into a state of despair by this system. The voters also welcome the Fidesz button-printing representatives. [[Eszter Vitalos: You have no voters, that's the problem!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause from Momentum, Dialogue and MSZP.]]
u2022-07-19-18	Thank you. On behalf of the Government, Mr Balázs Fürjes will respond.
u2022-07-19-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, perhaps the only point in which we may be in agreement, I would like to confirm that Gypsyism can count on us, as it has been in previous years. [[Bence of Turdai: Of course, just like that! I'd rather not.]] We continue with the policy of helping Gypsyism, which has resulted in the result, but far from being done, and there is plenty of work to be done to ensure that the living conditions of Gypsy are better in Hungary today than at any time in the previous 30 years. They can count on us, we'll count on them. [[9.50]] You started your speech, and in this case, your disagreements, again, I can tell you that you and Jobbik will be cleared. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties, including Dr. Brenner Koloman: We have a Gypsy representative who is real!]] You began by saying that you are surrounded by self-interest and greed. We see where you are sitting; I am sorry that you are experiencing this between the momentous and other left-wing representatives in your neighbourhood. Who's leading who, who's fooling who? I'd tell him to sit over, and that's not what's around him, but it's obviously all reality on the side of the tax and the receiver. [[Bence of Turda: That's right.]] Who's leading who? Who's fooling who? The problem is, it's hard to argue with you because, listening to you for weeks, we've come to the conclusion that you have a real problem with reality. They don't listen to the Hungarians, so they regularly get up on the two-thirds glass wall with great momentum, they hit the glass door, they don't listen to us, they don't accept anything from us, but they idolize Brussels and the Western European Left, so I can only say today that even if they don't believe us in what difficulties Hungary is in right now, please believe their comrades in Brussels and Western Europe. So don't believe us, but believe, say, the Politico, Brussels' favourite newspaper, which says that I quote the translation literally:, The war raging in Ukraine already has its effect on the whole continent, food prices in the sky, fear of gas shortages has appeared, says Politico. The article goes on to say: "The global food crisis will lead to increased migratory pressure, a general phenomenon of drought, and another wave of Covid epidemics, which will be a major challenge for the governments of Western democracies. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Or listen to Olaf Scholz. [[Bence of Turda: What are you saying?]] Listen to Olaf Scholz. You will not accept my statements, Congressman. Listen to your comrade in Berlin. [[Bence Tordai keeps interrupting.]] There is not only a crisis in Hungary. Germany was faced with a historical challenge due to Russia's war against Ukraine and the increase in the cost of the corona virus pandemic. Or President Macron, a great friend of the Momentum, we are facing an unprecedented food crisis. Or the Austrian Chancellor: The Union must face a new enemy in the form of absurdly high energy costs and inflation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I could continue to quote the statements of your left-wing comrades in Western Europe. They're saying exactly what we're saying. Today's economic difficulties are largely caused by war. In fact, in Germany, they are already saying that, as the civil government says in Hungary, they are only adding to these, the difficulties are only compounded by the Brussels sanctions policy. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] Sanction on two conditions makes sense to introduce in any case. If the person we want to punish is deterred, withheld from what we want to prevent, or if he does not cause a greater disadvantage to those who impose the penalty than to those who are supposed to suffer them. The Brussels sanctions policy does not prevent Russia from truly illegal aggression and is causing more damage to Europe than it is to Russia. That is why the Prime Minister said that Europe is shooting itself in the lungs. And in this situation, what does the government do? It protects Hungarian families, protects Hungarian people. Everyone in Hungary pays a reduced price up to the average consumption; this represents HUF 159 thousand per family per year. The price of petrol is about half the average European price, the price of basic foodstuffs is set, the interest rate stop is alive, and we accept the budget for public security and defence. We have an intention to protect the Hungarian people, and we will continue to make maximum use of the opportunities. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-19-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Brenner Koloman, representative of Jobbik, also applied for a pre-meeting speech. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-07-19-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First, a quick reaction to Comrade Quarantine, less human-faced Secretary of State. As a Christian social party to our better country, he always sits here in the Hungarian Parliament with a group like this, where Ferenc Varga, my gypsy fellow Member, represents the Hungarian Roma community with an economist's degree in his bag. You, Farkas Florianostul and Stoikastul should be ashamed and remain silent about this. Dear House, It would have been better if the amendments had been decided after substantive consultation. In the event of a rapid change, it is also expected that the government will properly assist the parties, and then sign the Cata Act, I quote President Novák. He failed his first exam, therefore, in the exam where he was supposed to represent the unity of the nation, Madam President of the Republic, because he even explained in writing why it would be his duty not to sign the cat's law, which was passed in an extraordinary procedure, within 30 hours of this House. It would be a bit of a humour if it weren't for such a tragic situation that they had been promised, with their mouth full, in exchange for EU funds, to refrain from such a thing. So much for Fidesz' credibility of any kind. Then, of course, in this context, it would have been much better if our proposal, Jobbik's proposal, had been adopted to hold a direct state election, and then there would have been no Fidesz signatory puppet sitting in the chair where Katalin Novák is sitting now, President of the Fidesz Republic. Secondly, last Tuesday I began my speech before the agenda by saying that the fabric of the Fidesz one-party overpowering village of Patyomkin began to paint; since then the walls have also fallen, dear comrades of Fidesz. The cost reduction has suddenly increased, thanks to the Fidesz restrictions. And it's one thing to cheat three million voters because we're used to it. But there are only two things that are not obvious in this regulation: how the average consumption has been calculated, according to what methodology, and what is the market price, my dear fellow Members of the Fidesz. You do know that the electric current... when we talk about a 14-forint electricity price, which we say will be five-fold, is the final price that you now charge to Hungarian citizens, for example, the system usage fee will be five-fold. So they are not making consumers pay for electricity, they are making consumers pay for everything, and on 27 percent European record VAT, my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, has already indicated that Jobbik is proposing that this should be removed from the electricity stream as a responsible Christian social party, of course temporarily. How did you establish these average limits? You in this House are lying that three quarters of Hungarian households are not affected. That is a lie, my fellow Members of the Fidesz. These averages were probably calculated by counting the vacant summer homes, cottages, everything, because even in a one-man, slightly insulated house, such as... a recent call from an older lady living alone, she has a pension of 130 thousand forints, and she will not be able to keep these upper limits either for gas or electricity. Should he starve or freeze? Dear comrades of the Fidesz, decide for yourselves. Because we believe that Jobbik believes that we need an average survey for Hungarian households, and that a regulation adapted to this Fidesz government must be developed quickly, because we believe in a social market economy, where we cannot leave hundreds of thousands of people in such a row in the 21st century. In the century. And one last, rather if it weren't for such a tragic situation, I would draw your attention to a comic fact: so, the anti-corruption task force is being set up in the Ministry of Minister Judit Varga, while the wife of Executive Mr Schadl has just been arrested. We remember Schadl, Völner, Varga, Orbán the chain. So, if Minister Navracsics will go out to negotiate with the politicians of the European Union, then don't be surprised if he is thrown around. This is the credibility of Fidesz, and there is a very, very great need for EU funds for Hungarian citizens. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2022-07-19-22	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will answer.
u2022-07-19-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, There are two things that you have been concerned with in your speech: unity of the nation and reduction of the overhead. When it comes to the unity of the nation, you have said in your own words, in your own parliamentary vice-president's credo, that you want to represent the unity of the nation as Vice-President of Parliament. "No one has been expelled from the nation, no one will be branded," he said. I'm not sure your party has the same principles. [[10.00]] Let's see the president of your party. What did the president of your party say, going out to the Ukrainian embassy building a few years ago, when it was about the Crimean referendum, when Russia wanted to confirm the annexation of Crimea by means of a local referendum after a situation similar to what we are in now, but it was obviously a milder military situation? [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Is this how Hungarian citizens can heat? Professional response...]] Your party president said to you about the national unity - "Russia has given hope and strength to all minorities in their struggle for their rights, and the referendum has pointed to the ambiguity of the United States and the European Union, because people's self-determination, human and minority rights are supported only if their geopolitical interests so require. Your party president, in any way, represents the national unity, honourable Member? What did your party president say about sanctions against Russia then? He says:.. The sanctions against Russia and the Russian response are causing serious economic damage to all European countries, including our country. Are these sentences suitable for creating any kind of national unity? You said you wanted to represent the national unity as Vice-President of Parliament. What do you think of these sentences by your party president, which stand up for Russia and against sanctions? But of course, you can choose from your own party president, because there are different vintage Mártons Gyöngyösi, because a decade later, the same person, whom I just quoted, says the following:. There is complete agreement that economic sanctions are the most effective means of stopping Russian aggression. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The sanctions proposed are good and effective. In addition, even the Paks contract has to be terminated, and one of the most important tools is economic sanctions, said the same man, but a few years later. But he went on about the national unity. I don't know if you can agree with your party president or not when you said, "Here's the last chance for Hungary to leave the Union now openly committing to the abolition of national sovereignty. Do you agree with your own party president that the Union should be left? [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Can we get to the answer sometime? Because I think people care about that.]] Do you think it is the national unity to leave the Union? [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Comrade wants to leave the Union, he said yesterday! ...because he was MSZMP.]] We don't think so. We believe that the European Union has many flaws, but we do not recommend leaving it for you or for others. As far as the overhead issue is concerned, honourable Member. What was the world market price for electricity a year ago, on a megawatt tour last spring? 60 euros. How much was it the day before the war broke out? 162 euros. How much now? EUR 371. What was the price of gas a long time ago, last spring? 21 euros per megawatt. How much was it the day before the war broke out? 63 euros. How much now? 162 euros. What was the price of oil a year ago? $75 a gallon. The day before the war broke out, $95, now $106, but there was $135. Why am I telling you these numbers? You were trying to prove here yesterday and today that the crisis, the price increases, had already started before the outbreak of the war. From these figures, it is clear that the increase in the price of energy sources on the world market did not start on 24 February, but in prewar times, as the Cold War tension increased within Europe or in the Atlantic region, these prices have already increased and have exploded after the war. At the same time, Hungary maintains the policy of reducing the costs and, in which we know, we protect the reduction of the rent, since every Hungarian family, who is an average consumer or even a consumer, can expect a monthly allowance of HUF 159 thousand in any case. After all, the gas bill is set at HUF 15,000 in the case of average consumption, without it it it would be HUF 131 thousand; with average consumption it would be around HUF 7750 and without it it would be HUF 50,000. Despite the age of wars, despite the huge economic difficulties worldwide, anyone who is an average consumer or a consumer over the world can expect at least HUF 159 thousand in support, because we will maintain it. Anyone who obviously consumes, say, two thirds of the average consumption, can expect a large sum of HUF 100,000 a month. And who, let's say, can expect a third of that, and such 50 thousand forints a month. On an annual basis, an average consumer can count on HUF 1.9 million in support in the coming months and years. There is no other country that would protect its citizens from rising overhead costs as much as Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-19-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Member Mrs Kálmán Olga, representative of DK, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor.
u2022-07-19-25	Thank you, Mr. President. In recent days, the Fidesz government's communication seems to have fallen apart, but obviously the reason for this is that its policy itself fell apart for the government and Fidesz, because it turns out that Viktor Orbán lied and lied in the campaign. When we didn't talk about closing the kata, we didn't talk about raising the rent, we didn't talk about destroying the businesses, we didn't talk about weakening the HUF, we didn't talk about the price increase. Now the Orbán government is doing everything they can to prove it was a lie, making it frivolous, lying all their earlier claims. Brussels, for example, has not asked for any increase in your overhead, but they do so. Brussels, where your prime minister is on his knees begging for money, has not asked for the destruction of businesses, yet you do. Brussels, on the other hand, has requested that substantial dialogue and consultation be carried out before important laws are drawn up. Well, they're not gonna do that. Instead, in two days, they will overwhelm hundreds of thousands of businesses in Parliament and burn poor Gergely Gulyás, who, as the mouth of Viktor Orbán on his knees, promises that there will be a meaningful social dialogue from here on in the Government Info with a flood of lies. Well, he didn't. It is true that when this was offered to Brussels, it was clearly also acknowledged that the national consultation was a very costly, but a lie. In the spirit of this new promised openness, our whole life seems to be spent, because it is certain that in the spirit of this openness they will not tell us exactly how much the fireworks of August 20, the most brutally expensive of all time, cost. I know they bought a rocket for 1.6 billion, but the entire cost will be encrypted for ten years. For Viktor Orbán, who destroyed Hungary, as I said, begs for money in Brussels, you are all doing things you shouldn't, and you're just not doing what you should be doing to finally make money for the country that is suffering because of you. Brussels, for example, calls for non-corruption so that EU funds are not stolen by the Orbán family, pereputty members, the gasman pal and members of various oligarchs and oligarch groups. But they're not doing anything about it. That is why DK has submitted a proposal for a decision to the Parliament to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Well, we'll find out how important it is for you, you want this, and therefore for EU money, because it will also be necessary for us to have it. Of course, we know that what the Orbán government is doing is a peacock dance, a lying illusion, because their entire system is built on this, theft, the lie, the elimination of the rule of law, so you cannot and will not allow at any point, because then your whole outrageous power structure will simply collapse. We have no doubt that Brussels will continue to be your fault. Orbán is currently criticizing sanctions against Putin, suggesting that all the problems here are caused by sanctions and war, while Viktor Orbán voted in favour of all these sanctions. The cause of the crisis is a man called Viktor Orbán. There's a strong suspicion that money won't come here as long as he's in place. The country, you, Fidesz Members, will soon have to decide whether it is Orbán or Hungary. Looks like they're not working together. The Orbán system is on its way to collapse, and now the Fidesz voters know they're being double-crossed. Hundreds of thousands won't be able to pay their bills. I know it's the government's keynote speaker now, and his response will start playing the ring, but please don't. The Gyurcsány government did not crush the possibility of a simplified tax. During that period of crisis, if you remember, there was an Eva. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And not because of the actions of the Gyurcsány government, and not during the Gyurcsány government, we don't get the EU money, but during the Orbán government we don't get the EU money. You have the record-weak HUF, record-high inflation, record deficit, record-state debt. But the time for accountability is coming. The disgruntled are angry, the number of people who want to change, believe me, it's going to grow. [[10.10]] The Democratic Coalition is preparing, even if you don't like it [[Dr. Répássy, Robert: For what?]] 'Cause it's time for a Democratic government to come, not to rewrite all the rules, but to create a free country. [[Eszter Vitalos: That won't be you!]] The Orbán regime has failed. The crisis will be even deeper by autumn, so we are preparing for a change. [[Eszter Vítalos: You failed four times!]] Thank you very much.
u2022-07-19-26	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the government, Mr. Csaba Dömötör will answer.
u2022-07-19-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Feel free to get ready. I've seen the posts. The choice of who gets the chance to govern is decided by the elections at hand. This was the case on 3 April, and there has also been a clear outcome in the interim elections in recent weeks. Please take these into account. With all due respect, accusing other public figures of lying from the party of the Autumn Speech is pretty steep, even if you're a new representative. As far as EU funds are concerned, not the president of the governing party received direct payments from Brussels to the family company, but your party president. [[Kálmán Olga: He just stole it. Eszter Vitalos: Shh!]] As far as the issue of sanctions is concerned, the Hungarian Prime Minister argued and lobbyed against the extension of the gas sanction, and took a lion's share in not including oil, land transport. You guys would have voted for everything you put in front of you without a bone. You may have said that the preferential taxation wasn't done by you. I have to tell you the truth here, because it's a reduced tax rate, it's like a catalog and all the other preferential forms of taxation, it wasn't like that. [[Kálmán Olga: Wasn't Eva? There was no Eva? Eszter Vitalos: Shh!]] It wasn't your time, there was no cataclysm. It was introduced by this government, voted by this pro-government majority, and when it had to be voted on, honourable Member, your fellow Members did not vote for it, so they did not support it. After all this, it's a lack of credibility. [[Kálmán Olga: Was there no Eva? Eszter Vitalos: Shh!]] Since he was a journalist, we have known that he has made a strong reference to social aspects. That's what we saw now. The question arises, then, how credible your position can be; yet you have joined a group that is famous for many things, but not for having a great heart and for taking the fate of Hungarians into your heart. [[Kálmán Olga: Great for you!]] If you really think the financial security of Hungarians is important, why hasn't your word been raised in the last few weeks, knowing that further war sanctions are causing enormous economic damage not only to Hungary but to Europe as a whole? [[Kálmán Olga: Why did Orbán sign it? Eszter Vitalos: Shh!]] Have you been revived by the fact-finding journalist when his fellow parties said that everything, but everything, is to be done by Viktor Orbán, to add quietly that inflation is enormous in all countries of Europe and that energy prices are dramatically increasing everywhere in Europe? If you are interested in the Hungarians' livelihoods, why didn't you raise your word when left-wing parties would have sprinkled salt on even the cold spot of the reduction? When your party president said it was a stupid thing to say about reducing the rent, or when they wanted to cancel the campaign, and even these days they were talking about not maintaining the price limit, where was Congresswoman Olga Kálmán? Then where were you? [[Kálmán Olga: Now who erases it?]] If you consider social aspects to be important, then why do you let left-wing representatives submit a tax increase proposal worth HUF 3200 billion for next year's budget? Not 12 years ago, not a few years ago, but these weeks. If you were to lend a helping hand to those in trouble, as a senior advisor to the city hall, if I'm not mistaken, then you were one of the well-paid, high-ranking advisors who didn't lobby for the 20,000 forints of heating vouchers, which, as you remember, was promised to all pensioners that they wouldn't turn out to be anything? It's obviously the government's fault, too. Isn't it? Obviously! If you really want to improve living conditions, why not stop your own party from campaigning openly so that Hungary does not receive the EU funds that are otherwise due to it? [[Gábor Bányai: That's right! Kálmán Olga: We shouldn't steal it and then we would have it! Eszter Vitalos: Shh!]] You know it's up to you to raise your wages. Why don't you put your social sensibilities to rest? Or to mention another matter: when your fellow Member, in a scandalous way, attacks Csaba Böjte here in this House, why don't you call him aside that Father Csaba Böjte gave hope to hundreds and thousands of children without a future? He built a children's home, not privatized a children's camp, as the gentleman who attacked him showed. So, you joined a force that didn't bring much good to the country, unless we consider the rubber bullets, the austerity mania or the constant threat culture to be one. And after all these years, there's nothing, but there's no sign that they're gonna change that a little bit. If you could just tell us why you joined this, we'd love to hear it. That'd be the straight talk. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-19-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Simicskó, representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Group leader also applied for a speech before the agenda.
u2022-07-19-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We adopted the 2022 budget a long time ago, and I also spoke on it. In my speech at the time, before the final vote, I suggested that Hungary managed the epidemic successfully and effectively, and that we can finally start the development and development of the Hungarian economy after its closure. The dangers and challenges of the past period have led to an unexpected turn of events that not many have expected, the worst of which is a devastating war in our neighbourhood. We see how this war already has an impact on Europe, Hungary and, where appropriate, the world's economy. We see that there are new challenges to be faced. Over the past 12 years, it has been part of the Hungarian government and Hungarians, as there have been a great deal of floods, red mud disasters, migration crises, terrorist attacks in Europe and many other things that have made our lives difficult, not to mention the pandemic. And now, on top of that, a sad war that has its victims, and the harmful effects of that which, obviously, for a country when it comes to adopting a budget, must be taken into account in particular. It's a huge responsibility to make a budget, to set up a country's budget. I would also like to thank the staff of the Ministry of Finance, Mr András Tállai, and everyone who contributed to this, because in the midst of so many uncertainties, in the face of such changes, it is a huge responsibility to form a budget in a war situation. For us Christian democrats, it is clear that the most important thing than a budget is, of course, taking into account international relations and current threats and challenges, that the support of Hungarian families remains of paramount importance, or not. This is why we will support the budget in the final vote: yes, support for Hungarian families is of paramount importance, as support for families is increasing, even in these circumstances, 450 billion more than we have been able to do in the previous year, 3225 billion forints, which is a huge amount. The Hungarian government's intention to try to relieve or at least ease the lives of families from the effects of the slowly increasing global economic crisis caused by the war is clearly visible. Not all countries see such a responsible decision. You can see that. In fact, we can also see that the European Union is sadly and sadly repeatedly giving bad answers to new challenges. It gives the wrong answers, punishes European citizens and European nations with wrong and wrong sanctions policies. Obviously, this sanction is the reason for the release of energy prices, which the government is also trying to guarantee, since it has created a Trust Fund and is also trying to provide answers to security guarantees that can be given in this situation, since the creation of the Defence Fund is also a sufficient guarantee that the existence and safety of citizens living in the country can be guaranteed from a security point of view. I am sure that what Mr Csaba Dömötör said, however, was that in a situation like this, I think that everyone, especially those decision-makers who are in this Chamber, should stand up to Brussels, regardless of the party position, and that this is what the country needs. We are an equal member of the Union so that we can have what is due to all the Member States. We pay about HUF 600 billion, which is otherwise required by the EU on a yearly basis from customs duties and other revenue. [[10.20]] So the principle of reciprocity should be represented, and indeed, left-wing MEPs do not support this endeavour of the Hungarian government. In addition, some 453 amendments were submitted by left-wing representatives, which are extremely irresponsible, as they contain a tax increase of HUF 3240 billion, which would make the lives of Hungarian families more difficult and hinder their prosperity. So, finally, I conclude by saying that the government has submitted a fair budget, taking into account the possibilities, and I call on everyone to support it in the final vote. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-07-19-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai will answer.
u2022-07-19-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, We are voting today, we are adopting the 2023 budget, so I think that the government is also good to talk about before the vote, the most important messages from the budget here in front of the Parliament. The 2023 budget reflects the fact that the government has been building a work-based society since 2010; a work-based society in which the most important aim is to preserve and create new jobs. This objective has been met by the government in line with expectations and promises since 2010, as a million new jobs have been created. It is very important that in this difficult situation, where there is war, economic recession is expected, there is war inflation, the most important thing is to keep jobs, to preserve people's existence, and thus to provide them with security. Thus, in line with the expected performance of the economy, it is very important to increase net average earnings. This has very positive numbers, as it is expected that net average earnings will increase above 10 per cent. Hungary wants to achieve a future economic position by increasing performance, supporting investment, innovation and balanced growth. Dear Parliament, Secondly, the budget pays particular attention to the protection of families, the strengthening of families, the appreciation of older people and the promotion of child rearing, as the budget for 2023 provides the necessary cover, support for the continuation of home-building programmes, the payment of the 13th month pension, the increase in pensions following inflation and the retention of various personal income tax allowances. Dear Parliament, Thirdly, it is very important that the performance of the economy is stable and on a growing path. Despite the coronal virus epidemic, we've proven that we can do this. We are now struggling to keep the growth of the economy on track under war conditions. It is encouraging that the European Union has just increased the expected economic growth in 2022 from 3.6 to 5.2. Dear Parliament, The aim of the budget is to preserve Hungary's peace and security, to ensure the country's energy supply and to protect its energy savings up to the level of average consumption for the Hungarian population. Therefore, we have established two funds in the budget, the already known Rezségvédelmi and the Defence Fund. The Hungarian Defence Fund has a budget of HUF 842 billion, which accounts for 2% of GDP. This fund must not only prevent the uncertainty, difficulty caused by war, but also ensure border protection due to increased migration. The expected economic recession caused by the war is launching another wave of migration to Europe, and Hungary cannot count on anything but itself to protect the country's borders. Dear Chief of Staff, This budget provides security and protection for the country, providing security for Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-07-19-32	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member Gábor Bányai, representative of Fidesz, also came forward before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-07-19-33	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear House, I have asked to speak about a problem that has a serious impact on the eastern counties of Hungary in particular. Currently, Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok, Békés, Bács-Kiskun, Csongrád-Csanád and Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg counties are those lowland areas where a great and severe drought has developed and lasts for four years. As Article P of the Fundamental Law of Hungary states, "Nature resources, in particular land, forests and water resources, biodiversity, in particular indigenous plant and animal species, as well as cultural values are a common heritage of the nation, whose protection, maintenance and preservation for future generations are the duty of the state and everyone. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Dear Minister, Dear House, Year after year, the increasingly extreme weather poses new challenges for Hungarian agriculture. The extraordinary weather can be felt by us. During the summer, the drought caused by extreme heat, the drought caused by the lack of precipitation, the droughts were getting longer, and the fall of precipitation fell dangerously and severely. But the fact is, we can't make it rain. It is also a fact that we are not yet able to stop or stop climate change. In fact, at the end of this process, if we do not have a huge and comprehensive national water supply and irrigation programme based on national consensus, most of the Hungarian Plain will become deserted. The Danube-Tisza public sandback in the southern region of the country is the largest area of Central Europe at risk of dehydration. In the Danube-Tisza area, where XX. At the beginning of the century, there were more than a thousand natural lakes, and now their remaining names remind us of their former natural waters. In the higher areas, groundwater in the area has fallen to 3-5 metres or more in the last two years. The wells and lakes drilled into the upper layers have dried up. According to the data of my own Borotan weather station, the rate of falling precipitation has accelerated over the past four years, while the average temperature has increased during vegetation. To show that I collected the amount of precipitation from 1 April to 1 November of each year during the vegetation period. In 2019 435 millimeters, in 2020 408 millimeters, in 2021 only 313 millimeters, and in this year a total of 165 millimeters fell in the most dwindling area of the county of Bács-Kiskun. They need to know that every crop suitable for human consumption requires 500 to 1000 millimeters of precipitation for successful production at the time of vegetation, with good weather distribution. In other words, if we can't change that, we can't get water from our rivers to the higher areas, most of the eastern part of the country will not be suitable for agricultural production, or it will only be limited. This is the current situation, and for the better, we cannot count on nature for the time being. Over the past fifty years, the problem has been a regular solution to the water supply of the Danube-Tisza sandback. In poor water management landscapes, winter extra water quickly flows into deeper areas, but the accumulated waters are carried out as soon as possible by our sewer systems and the groundwater can only be used with restrictions for irrigation. Thus, during the drought period, no water supply is available to meet the water needs of biological and farmers. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Without water, there is no agriculture, there is no food industry without water, and there is no sustainable culture of sandbacks and vegetable, fruit and plant production in the Great Plain. In fact, Hungary should make the decision in the worst and most difficult natural, political and financial period in order to maintain the eastern part of the country, which can be measured in HUF 1000 billion, with the involvement of our large and smaller rivers, with a few percent of its yield here and with its storage in reservoirs, lakes and canal beds, to prevent the total dehydration of the Great Plain of the country. [[10.30]] Dear Minister, Dear House, I would ask you, as well as the government, and your decision to help with the water supply of the sandbacks of the Great Plain and the Danube-Tisza, the construction of water supply plants. For 50 years, we went in the direction that led us here, but we don't have another 50 years to wait for something independent of us or nature to have enough water. [[It's constant noise.]] Because we might still have water for this purpose, between the Danube Tisza and beyond, we still have reserves. Dear Minister, I look forward to your reply, thank you who have listened, my fellow Members, for listening to this very important matter, and thank you for your patient listening. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-19-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the government, I give the floor to Minister István Nagy.
u2022-07-19-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] He has indeed drawn attention to a very important issue, a situation that we face every day, and we have to deal with it every day. I've been to the region myself, and I've never seen a similar sight in my life: corn to the knees, sunflowers to the feet, the damage to the south of the Great Plain is simply extraordinary. Today there are more than 500,000 hectares of damage, and unfortunately, my bad news is that this damage is not only affecting Hungary, but 46 percent of European agricultural land is now affected by the drought. So we have to meet a very serious challenge. Despite the drought and this difficult struggle, I have to say thank you to all Hungarian farmers, because the bread of Hungarians is available for everyday food. The quantities of cereals that serve the safe supply of Hungarians are in a barn. The bad news, though, is that there are fewer exports. In the current situation, the agricultural portfolio supports producers with all possible means, for whom, inter alia, the agricultural compensation scheme and drought insurance can be of great help. In recent years, our country has developed a highly developed and multi-pillar agricultural risk management system that can help farmers in the current situation. The so-called compensation fund is used to mitigate the loss of income caused by drought damage. After aggregation of final and legitimate management needs, the Agricultural Ministry will propose to the government that it decide on the basis of claims to supplement the Fund's resources. This year we will provide additional money for premium-supported drought insurance in view of the increased demand. In this way, it will be possible to pay 65 percent of the insurance premiums linked to drought as aid to farmers, so we will increase the amount of rural development resources available for this purpose to more than HUF 14 billion. It is important to note that direct subsidies provide financial security to farmers for more than HUF 400 billion per year. The financing situation of producers affected by drought is supported by interest-supported working capital loans, including the Agrar Széchenyi Card Overdraft. We also referred to the European Commission to authorise increased advance payments for direct aid and to facilitate other administrative rules. We have also asked the Commission to remove the time constraints related to mowing, pulping and siloing activities in the context of the agri-environmental management programme. To date, more than HUF 45 billion has been allocated to farmers' irrigation investments under the Rural Development Programme. We also support the creation of irrigation communities, and the CAP strategy plan for the years 2023 to 27 will give more resources than ever, some HUF 70 billion to improve irrigation farming. [[It's constant noise.]] We invest in infrastructure in a very significant order of tens of billions of HUF, and we have developed the main works and the third works. It is also worth noting that eight reservoirs have been built in the country in recent years with a maximum storage capacity of 5 million cubic metres. During the years 2019-22, the construction of an infrastructure deficit phase of 2177 kilometres was renewed by dredging, exterminating and maintenance interventions, as well as 314 works of art and 33 pump sites were renovated or rebuilt. In connection with the development of agricultural irrigation, the modernisation of the Derecske main channel, the first stage of the reconstruction of the Jászság water management system and the development of the multipurpose water management system for Hajdúhány has been implemented. But there are areas where they are not enough, and such an area is the sandback. Developments to improve the water deficit condition of sandbacks should essentially be approached in two directions. On the one hand, developments to ensure the backbone of the sandback and water supply for its immediate area, targeting seven target areas. The first is the Rackevei [[Soroksári]] Expanding the water supply of the Danube branch. The second is to increase the water supply of the Kiskunsági main canal and the Danube-valley main canal. The third is the northern regional water supply and water retention [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Eastern water supply and water retention, the replacement of the snake water system, the upper-Bácska water supply system, the southern regional water supply and the water supply of the salt lakes in the middle sandbacks. And there is another direction of development, which is related to the edges of the sandback, the Morahalom and its area; and I very much hope that all of this shows how responsible and how resource-grouping we are trying to resolve this difficult situation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-19-36	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, [[Several opposition representatives hand over large printed paper to those sitting in ministerial seats and István Németh Szilárd. The staff of the Office Security Service collects the papers. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with decisions, but before that we will have a three-minute technical break, and I will give the chair to President János Latorcai. [[Break: 10.38-10.44]] (President: Dr. János Latorcai) Notes: Attila Gelencsér and Dániel Z. Carpathian)
u2022-07-19-37	Fellow Members! I welcome you all with love. We'll get back to work. I would also ask my fellow Members, my pro-government colleagues, to take their seats. [[On the back of the open laptop of the Dialogue, the following inscriptions appear:.]] We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. In today's decisions, we also decide to accept proposals requiring a qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the decision-making rule of 50. § 3, if Parliament does not adopt a provision requiring a qualified majority in the final vote of the bill or a proposal for a resolution, this shall extend without any further specific decision to the withdrawal of the provision indicating the fundamentality of the non-approved regulation. In this case, the final vote by a simple majority shall take place on the text of the proposal thus amended. Before we begin the voting procedure, we will carry out a presence check to verify that the voting machines are operational. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. [[Attendance check.]] I find that 189 Members are present, 10 are absent. Parliament has a quorum. In line with the LXVI of 2021. UNEP Secretariat of the Agreement on the Protection of African-Eurasian Migratory Waterbirds, published by law, represented by the Government of Hungary and the United Nations [[UNEP/AEWA Secretariat]] on the 8th meeting of the Parties to the African-Eurasian Agreement on the Protection of Migratory Waterbirds [[5-9 October 2021 Budapest, Hungary]] T/447 on the publication of the Agreement on the amendment of the Agreement by way of a change of registry Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur was Mr T/447/1. No. submitted an adjustment to the text of the bill in English and its official translation in Hungarian to correct the spelling and translation errors and restore the authentic text, which is available to all of us on the House's IT network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the bill. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/447. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the adjusted bill with 190 votes in favour, without voting against or abstaining. The Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the modification of the Agreement between the Government of Hungary on the control of border traffic by road, rail and by water and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is hereby concluded. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/519. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 189 votes in favour, without voting against and without abstention. We now have T/362 on the protection of members of the pension society in the public interest and of the cooperative with small children. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/362. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 157 votes in favour, no votes against and 32 abstentions. H/364 on the Hungarian position on the future of the European Union. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. However, in the light of a request for action, we must also decide to maintain a proposal for an amendment. I would like to inform you that the House Rule of Procedure is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, the DK Group proposed to maintain Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Ferenc Gyurcsány and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 34 votes in favour, 139 votes against and 17 abstentions. As the Parliament did not maintain a proposal for an amendment, nor did an amendment summing up the proposal, we decided on the text of the proposal for a decision in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/364. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 130 votes [footnoteRef:1], 50 votes against [footnoteRef:2] and 7 abstentions [footnoteRef:3]. [ 1: Gergely Gulyás [[Fidesz]] [[Fidesz]] [[Fidesz]] Máté Kocsis (Fidesz) wanted to vote in favour. ] [ 2: Dr. Attila Tilki (Fidesz) misvoted, wished to vote in favour. ] [ 3: Gy. Erzsébet Németh [[DK]] he wrongly voted and wished to vote against. ] Next up is T/363 on the amendment of certain laws affecting the financial sector. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. [[10.50]] T/363/4. No T/363/5 and its summary report. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/363/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 135 votes in favour, 19 votes against and 36 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/363/6. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 135 votes in favour, 19 votes against and 36 abstentions. The general rules for compliance with accessibility requirements for products and services are set out in T/365. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/365/4 of the Legislative Committee's proposal to amend the text in summary. No T/365/5 and its summary report. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/365/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 167 votes in favour, no votes against, with 22 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/365/6. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 167 votes in favour, no votes against, with 22 abstentions. Following is the T/152 on Hungary's central budget for 2023. Final vote of bill No 1. CXCIV of 2011 on Hungary's economic stability. Act T/152/471 submitted by the national Parliament pursuant to the provisions of Act T/152/471 and the Rules of Procedure of the House of Decisions The Single Budget Act No 1 was sent to the President of the Fiscal Council. Opinion of the Council on the granting of a preliminary contribution T/152/474. Number 2 is available on the network. I now salute Dr. Árpád Kovács, President of the Fiscal Council, to whom the House Rule of Decision 36. I will now give you the floor in 10 minutes, pursuant to paragraph 11 of Section I, and who will give his opinion on the platform. Mr. President, please come to the stand. Mr President, You have the floor.
u2022-07-19-38	Mr President, Dear Parliament, On 12 July 2022, the Speaker of Parliament sent a single bill on Hungary's central budget for 2023, including the transposition of the amendments adopted by the Parliament, requesting the opinion of the Fiscal Council on compliance with the sovereign debt rule and the granting of its prior consent under the Fundamental Law to the final vote on the bill. On the basis of its examination, the Council concluded at its meeting on 14 July 2022 that the amendments proposed for adoption in the Single Budget Act do not alter the planned cash flow deficit, as the increase in individual expenditure appropriations is fully offset by the reduction of other expenditure appropriations and, in particular, by the increase in tax revenue for consumption. Consequently, the planned amount of public debt remains unchanged. In addition, the deficit in terms of results does not go away. The Council took note of the planned rate of government debt ratio planned for 31 December 2023. It was established in accordance with the provisions of the Stability Act, in line with the underlying macroeconomic and public finances processes in the preparation of the bill. Since the sovereign debt ratio, calculated by the end of 2023, is lower than that expected by the end of 2022, the requirement of the Fundamental Law is therefore also met. The Council thus gave its prior consent to the final vote on the proposal for a single budget law. However, unlike the previous years, the body could not stop here. It had to draw attention to macro-economic risks since the start of budgetary planning, four of which particularly concern budget implementation: higher than expected inflation, a slowdown in global economic growth, the consequences of the Russian-Ukrainian war, the resulting deepening energy crisis, the expected development of the external trade balance and the continuation of the agreement with the Union. Overall, this increases the risk of a higher deficit and debt than planned. The negative risks may continue to increase in the second half of 2022 and in 2023, and the Council recommended that alternative scenarios be prepared to address them. Dear Parliament, Please allow me to briefly justify its decision by fulfilling the mandate of the Council. The framework of the sovereign debt rule is defined by the Fundamental Law as follows: as long as the public debt exceeds half of the total domestic product, Parliament may only adopt a law on a central budget containing a reduction in the ratio of the public debt to the total domestic product. The bill also complies with this rule in the light of existing risks. The Stability Act also imposes a requirement for debt developments, according to which the debt-to-GDP ratio should be reduced by at least 0,1 percentage points. According to the single bill, if circumstances do not ultimately lead to the identified risks, this indicator may decrease by 2,3 percentage points next year to a much greater extent. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In the process of the Council, he followed the parliamentary discussion of the draft budget law. He found that, compared to the bill submitted, some expenditure appropriations increased by HUF 170 billion on the basis of the amendments adopted by Parliament. This was fully offset by revenue, including, in particular, the increase in VAT and excise revenue related to higher nominal consumption growth and inflation effects than previously expected, and, to a lesser extent, the reduction of certain operating and investment expenditure appropriations. Therefore, the balance has not changed. [[11.00]] At the same time, the Council considered it appropriate to note that, among the reductions in expenditure appropriations, there is a risk of a significant reduction in the amount of other mixed expenditure, as a reduction in an appropriations open from above is being made. On the basis of the expected macroeconomic developments in 2022 and 2023, I highlight the uncertainty of economic growth and the effects of inflation among the risks identified in the Council's decision. These developments are, in principle, weaker than the macroeconomic outlook for the budget due to global economic processes and, in particular, the indirect effects of the war. A more than projected slowdown in economic growth and a higher than expected rate of inflation directly affects the sovereign debt indicator. I also mention the European Union's cohesion and recovery resources, which still require the adoption of the Partnership Agreement and certain operational programmes, as well as the Hungarian recovery and resilience plan, submitted in December 2021. The Council considered the government's steps towards an agreement to be favourable. Despite the strengthening of the risks surrounding the implementation of the budget, the Council did not see compliance with the sovereign debt rule at risk due to the existence of various explicit and implicit reserves. It noted that the risks to the public finances balance have been mitigated by the recent amendments to the law on the specific tax of retail taxpayers and the notified government measures that limit the maintenance of the price of the energy consumption beneficiary to a quantitative limit. The latter is also expected to increase energy savings, which can also contribute to better balance. On the basis of a summary of all this, the Council considered that there was no need to revise its previous assessment of the application of the sovereign debt rule. It could thus give its consent to the final vote on the Single Budget Law proposal, asking for continued monitoring of adaptation. Thank you very much for your attention. I wish you a substantial recharge. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-19-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/152/474. Proposal for a single budget law No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the proposal for a single budget law by 135 votes in favour, 54 votes against and 1 abstention [footnoteRef:4]. [ 4: Gy. Erzsébet Németh [[DK]] he wrongly voted and wished to vote against. ] We now have T/360 on the basis of Hungary's central budget for 2023. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/360/7, and T/360/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform the House that the House Rules of the Decision are 48. According to paragraph 2 of Section T/360/7 of the DK Group. Point 8, 46 and 150 of the proposed amendment, and the Group on Dialogue initiated a separate vote on points 63 and 64. First, we will decide on the points requested for a separate vote, and then on the part of the summarised amendment that requires a qualified majority. We will then decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. We are now deciding on the adoption of points 150 to a qualified majority requested for a separate vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of this will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/360/7. Point 150 of the consolidated amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points requested for a separate vote by 134 votes to 44, with 11 abstentions [footnoteRef:5]. [ 5: Gy. Erzsébet Németh [[DK]] T/360/7 In the course of the decision of the No.1 document, he by mistake pressed the button "I'm staying," even though he did not want to vote. ] We are now deciding on the adoption of point 8 of the summary amendment, which requires a simple majority, to be put to a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/360/7. Point 8 of the summary amendment proposal, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the point requested for a separate vote by 134 votes in favour, 43 votes against and 11 abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 46 of the summary amendment, which requires a simple majority, to be put to a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/360/7. Point 46 of the proposed amendment, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the point requested for a separate vote by 134 votes in favour, 44 votes against and 11 abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 63, which requires a simple majority, as requested for a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/360/7. Point 63 of the proposed amendment, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the points requested for a separate vote in the summary amendment by 134 votes to 54, with one abstention. We are now deciding on the adoption of point 64 of the summary amendment, which requires a simple majority, to be put to a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/360/7. Point 64 of the proposed amendment, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the points requested for a separate vote in the summary amendment by 134 votes to 54, with one abstention. Now, on points 1 and 38 of the summarised amendment, which require a qualified majority, point 120, point 199. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 and points 121, 123, 124, 133, 135 and 137 shall be decided. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of these will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/360/7. Additional points requiring a qualified majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 55 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/360/7. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment which require a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 55 votes against and no abstentions. [[11.10]] It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/360/11. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 55 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/360/11. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 54 votes against and no abstentions. We now have T/366 on the amendment of certain economic regulation laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/366/4. T/366/5 and T/366/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 2, 37, 38, 39 and 46 thereof, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the parts requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/366/4. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 135 votes in favour, 45 votes against and 10 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/366/4. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment by 135 votes in favour, 43 votes against and 11 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/366/6. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 136 votes in favour, 45 votes against and 9 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/366/6. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 135 votes in favour, 45 votes against and 10 abstentions. Next up is the T/211 on defence data management. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/211/6 provides a summary of the Legislative Committee's proposal for amendment. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the House Rule of Procedure is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, Jobbik's group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment No 2 tabled by Mr Zoltán Sas and Mr György Lukács. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 32 votes in favour, 134 votes against and 23 abstentions. Dear House, As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/21/15. A summary amendment was proposed. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 155 votes in favour, 21 votes against and 14 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Their adoption requires the support of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/21/17. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 152 votes in favour, 19 votes against and 17 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/21/17. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 153 votes in favour, 19 votes against and 18 abstentions. T/361 on the 11th amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary follows. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment and final vote. T/361/8. T/361/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the House Rule of Procedure is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the Group of Mi Hazan has proposed the continuation of Amendment 3 and 4. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Mr President Novak. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that two thirds of the Members of Parliament have to vote in favour of this adoption. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 5 votes in favour, 163 votes against and 1 abstention. Amendment 4 is also proposed by Mr President Novak. I would like to draw your attention now to the fact that two thirds of the Members of Parliament must vote in favour of this adoption. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 5 votes in favour, 152 votes against and 14 abstentions. As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that two thirds of the Members of Parliament must vote in favour of this great two-thirds vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/361/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the qualified majority of the summary amendment by 135 votes in favour, 36 votes against and 5 abstentions. [[11.20]] Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, pursuant to Article S (2) of the Fundamental Law, the adoption of a proposal to amend the Fundamental Law requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the 11th Amendment to the Fundamental Law of Hungary T/361/11. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the proposal by 140 votes in favour, 36 votes against and no abstentions. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]] We'll get back to work. The T/367 on the amendment of certain electoral laws and related laws follows. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the Legislative Committee's proposal for amendment is T/367/7 and T/367/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rule of Decision is 48. According to paragraph 2 of Section T367/7, the DK Group is a member of the T367/7 Group. A separate vote was initiated on points 5 and 6 of the text of the proposed amendment. First, we will decide on the points requested for a separate vote, and then on the part of the summarised amendment that requires a qualified majority. We will then decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. We are now deciding on the adoption of points 5 and 6 of the summary amendment, which require a qualified majority, in substance. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/367/7. Point 5 and 6 of the substantive amendment requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points asked for a separate vote on the summary amendment by 135 votes in favour, 29 votes against and 21 abstentions. We are now deciding on points 1, 2, 8, 9, 13-18 and 21 of the summarised amendment proposal requiring a further qualified majority. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of these will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/367/7. Additional points requiring a qualified majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the additional points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 144 votes in favour, 39 votes against and 4 abstentions. We are now deciding on the points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/367/7. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment which require a simple majority by 145 votes in favour, 40 votes against and 5 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/367/10. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 144 votes in favour, 40 votes against and 5 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/367/10. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 143 votes in favour, 39 votes against and 5 abstentions. T/559 on certain issues relating to the functioning of the territorial administration and amending certain laws relating to the eleventh amendment of the Fundamental Law follows. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/559/7 and T/559/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the House Rule of Decision is 48. § 2 of the Fidesz Group is the T/559/7. A separate vote was initiated on points 12, 15, 16, 24-28 and 83, and points 13, 14, 17 and 82, which are also relevant. First, we will vote on the points asked for a separate vote, then on the part of the summary amendment that requires a qualified majority, then we will decide on the further points of the summarised amendment proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, We are now deciding on the adoption of points 12, 15, 16, 24-28 and 83 in conjunction with the proposal for a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/559/7. Point 12, 15, 16, 24-28 and 83 of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not accept the points requested for a separate vote by 9 votes in favour, 133 votes against and 21 abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of points 13, 14, 17 and 82 of the draft amendment, which have been asked for a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/559/7. Point 13, 14, 17 and 82 of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the points requested for a separate vote by 140 votes in favour, 30 votes against and 10 abstentions. We now decide on points 23, 32, 50, 55, 56, 57, 59, 64, 70-73 and 84 of the summarised amendment. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of these will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/559/7. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 139 votes in favour, 40 votes against and 10 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/559/7. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment by 139 votes in favour, 38 votes against and 10 abstentions. [[11.30]] In view, ladies and gentlemen, of the fact that Parliament has not just adopted all the points of the summarised amendment, we will decide, in the final vote, on the text of the bill which has been amended with the agreed points of the summarised amendment. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/559. The provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority by 139 votes in favour, 40 votes against and 10 abstentions. We now decide on the parts of the amended bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/559. The provisions of the amended bill, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a simple majority by 140 votes in favour, 40 votes against and 10 abstentions. The XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly follows in a row. Act T/369 amending Act T/369 and certain related laws on the regularity of the proposal for an excessive amendment to bill No 72. § 1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union, on the initiative of proceedings pursuant to Article 1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and on the proposals for amendments to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, on the one hand, and on the other, on the other, on the other. T/369/10. T/369/21. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee has submitted amendments extending beyond T/369/11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18 and 19, and T/369/20 at the same time as the submission. No 72 of the Rules of Procedure. § 1 has proposed to the Parliament that the House Rules of Decisions 71. Paragraph 3 (a) to (c) shall not apply. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that we will decide separately on the over-extending amendments, first on the regularity of the over-extending amendment proposal, then on the 72nd. § 1 proposals. If these are adopted, we will decide on the proposal for an over-extending amendment. This is followed by a decision to maintain the amendments proposed by its representatives, and a final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment. Dear Parliament, The resolution house rule is 71. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 44 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, Parliament decides without debate that the extension of the proposed amendment is linked to the content of a duly amended proposal or to the House Rule 44 of the Rules of Procedure. If it is clearly necessary to enforce the criteria set out in paragraph 1 of Section 1. Prior to the decisions, the rapporteur appointed by the Legislative Committee, then when the Legislative Committee has a minority opinion on the minority opinion of the rapporteur of the minority opinion Speak in a total of four-minute time frame. The rapporteur may then state his position within a two-minute time frame. I would like to inform you, fellow Members, that the Legislative Committee has indicated in advance that it is not making a statement. I would like to ask you now that someone on the part of the authors wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak on the regularity of the over-extensive amendments. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Now it's T/369/11. We decide on the regularity of the proposal for an excessive amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament to declare T/369/11 to be in order. The proposal for an over-expansive amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament has declared the proposal for an amendment extending by 135 votes in favour, 47 votes against and no abstentions in order. Now the resolution house rule is 72. § (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Parliament's contribution requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to agree that T/369/20. Proposal T/369/11 With regard to the excessive amendment proposal No 71, the House Rules of the Decision Paragraph 3 (a) to (c) shall not apply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] - Paragraph 8 shall not apply. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament gave its consent to the proposal by 135 votes in favour, 47 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of an over-extensive amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/369/11. The proposed amendment, which is duly over-extensive, was proposed. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the proposal for an amendment extending by 135 votes in favour, 46 votes against and no abstentions. Now T/369/12. We decide on the regularity of the proposal for an excessive amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament to declare the T/369/12 to be in order. The proposal for an over-expansive amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament has declared the proposal for an amendment extending by 135 votes in favour, 47 votes against and no abstentions in order. Now the resolution house rule is 72. § (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Parliament's contribution requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to agree to the T/369/20. T/369/12 on the basis of the T/369/12 proposal With regard to the excessive amendment proposal No 71, the House Rules of the Decision Paragraph 3 (a) to (c) shall not apply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] - Paragraph 8 shall not apply. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament gave its consent to the proposal by 135 votes in favour, 48 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of an over-extensive amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/369/12. The proposed amendment, which is duly over-extensive, was proposed. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the proposal for an amendment extending by 135 votes in favour, 48 votes against and no abstentions. Now T/369/13. We decide on the regularity of the proposal for an excessive amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the T/369/13. The proposal for an over-expansive amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament has declared the proposal for an amendment extending by 134 votes in favour, 48 votes against and no abstentions in order. Now the resolution house rule is 72. § (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Parliament's contribution is possible by the vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. [[11.40]] I ask the Honourable Parliament to agree to the T/369/20. on the basis of the T/369/13 proposal. With regard to the excessive amendment proposal No 71, the House Rules of the Decision Paragraph 3 (a) to (c) shall not apply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] - Paragraph 8 shall not apply. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament agreed to the proposal by 135 votes in favour, 47 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of an over-extensive amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/369/13. The proposed amendment, which is duly over-extensive, was proposed. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the exceeding amendment by 134 votes in favour, 47 votes against and no abstentions. Now T/369/14. We decide on the regularity of the proposal for an excessive amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament to declare T/369/14 as legal. The proposal for an over-expansive amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament declared the proposal for an amendment extending by 135 votes in favour, 46 votes against and no abstentions. Now the resolution house rule is 72. § (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Parliament's contribution requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to agree to the T/369/20. on the basis of the proposal T/369/14. With regard to the excessive amendment proposal No 71, the House Rules of the Decision Paragraph 3 (a) to (c) shall not apply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] - Paragraph 8 shall not apply. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament agreed to the proposal by 135 votes in favour, 47 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of an over-extensive amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of point 1 of this Article, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on a point requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/369/14. Point 1 requiring a majority of the duly overextensive amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points of the exceeding amendment which required a qualified majority by 135 votes in favour, 47 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the overextensive amendment proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/369/14. The additional points of its duly overextensive amendment proposal require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points of the overextending amendment by 135 votes in favour, 44 votes against and no abstentions. Now T/369/15. We decide on the regularity of the proposal for an excessive amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament to declare T/369/15 as legal. The proposal for an over-expansive amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament has declared the proposal for an amendment extending by 134 votes in favour, 46 votes against and no abstentions in order. Now the resolution house rule is 72. § (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Parliament's contribution requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to agree to the T/369/20. T/369/15 on the basis of the proposal No. With regard to the excessive amendment proposal No 71, the House Rules of the Decision Paragraph 3 (a) to (c) shall not apply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] - Paragraph 8 shall not apply. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament agreed to the proposal by 135 votes in favour, 46 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of an over-extensive amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of point 1 of this Article, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on a point requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament, therefore, if the Legislative Committee accepts T/369/15. Point 1 requiring a majority of the duly overextensive amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points of the exceeding amendment which required a qualified majority by 135 votes in favour, 47 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the overextensive amendment proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/369/15. The additional points of its duly overextensive amendment proposal require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points of the overextending amendment which require a simple majority by 135 votes in favour, 48 votes against and no abstentions. Now T/369/16. We decide on the regularity of the proposal for an excessive amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament to declare T/369/16 as legal. The proposal for an over-expansive amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament has declared the proposal for an amendment extending by 134 votes in favour, 48 votes against and no abstentions in order. Now the resolution house rule is 72. § (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Parliament's contribution requires the vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to agree to the T/369/20. T/369/16 on the basis of the proposal No. With regard to the excessive amendment proposal No 71, the House Rules of the Decision Paragraph 3 (a) to (c) shall not apply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] - Paragraph 8 shall not apply. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament agreed to the proposal by 135 votes in favour, 48 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of an over-extensive amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of point 1 of this Article, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on a point requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/369/16. Point 1 requiring a majority of the duly overextensive amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points of the exceeding amendment which required a qualified majority by 135 votes in favour, 48 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on a further point 2, which requires a simple majority, of the overextensive amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/369/16. Point 2 of its duly overextensive amendment proposal requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the simple majority of the amendment proposal by 134 votes in favour, 48 votes against and no abstentions. [[11.50]] Now T/369/17. We decide on the regularity of the proposal for an excessive amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the T/369/17. The proposal for an over-expansive amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament has declared the proposal for an amendment extending by 134 votes in favour, 48 votes against and no abstentions in order. Now the resolution house rule is 72. § (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Parliament's contribution requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to agree to the T/369/20. T/369/17. With regard to the excessive amendment proposal No 71, the House Rules of the Decision Paragraph 3 (a) to (c) shall not apply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] - Paragraph 8 shall not apply. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament agreed to the proposal by 135 votes in favour, 48 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of an over-extensive amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/369/17. The proposed amendment, which is duly over-extensive, was proposed. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the exceeding amendment by 134 votes in favour, 48 votes against and no abstentions. Now T/369/18. We decide on the regularity of the proposal for an excessive amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the T/369/18. The proposal for an over-expansive amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament has declared the proposal for an amendment extending by 135 votes in favour, 48 votes against and no abstentions in order. Now the resolution house rule is 72. § (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Parliament's contribution requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to agree to the T/369/20. on the basis of the T/369/18 proposal. With regard to the excessive amendment proposal No 71, the House Rules of the Decision Paragraph 3 (a) to (c) shall not apply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] - Paragraph 8 shall not apply. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament agreed to the proposal by 135 votes in favour, 48 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on the adoption of an over-extensive amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/369/18. The proposed amendment, which is duly over-extensive, was proposed. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the proposal for an amendment extending by 135 votes in favour, 48 votes against and no abstentions. Now T/369/19. We decide on the regularity of the proposal for an excessive amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the T/369/19. The proposal for an over-expansive amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament has declared the proposal for an amendment extending by 135 votes in favour, 48 votes against and no abstentions in order. Now the resolution house rule is 72. § (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Parliament's contribution requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to agree that T/369/20. T/369/19 on the basis of the proposal No. With regard to the excessive amendment proposal No 71, the House Rules of the Decision Paragraph 3 (a) to (c) shall not apply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] - Paragraph 8 shall not apply. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament agreed to the proposal by 135 votes to none, 45 votes to none, with one abstention. We are now deciding on the adoption of an over-extensive amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/369/19. The proposed amendment, which is duly over-extensive, was proposed. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the exceeding amendment by 134 votes in favour, 48 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the House Rule of Procedure is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the Group of Mi Hazánk proposed the continuation of Amendment 4 and 5. That's what we're gonna decide now. Amendment 4 is proposed by the President of Novak. I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present in order to maintain this proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 16 votes in favour, 130 votes against and 16 abstentions. Amendment 5 is proposed by the predecessor Novak. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in order to maintain this proposal, the vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present is necessary. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 12 votes in favour, 134 votes against and 11 abstentions. Dear House, As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of paragraphs 1, 2, 4 to 7, 9, 10, 15 to 26, 28 to 34, 37, 38, 40, 42, 45, 46, 47, 48, and 49 and 50 thereof, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the points requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/369/10. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 135 votes in favour, 46 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/369/10. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment which require a simple majority by 135 votes in favour, 47 votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. In view of the fact that the Parliament has adopted the proposals for an amendment which is duly overextensive and the overall amendment proposal, the final vote will decide on the whole of the single proposal containing the proposals for an over-extensive amendment. [[12.00]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. The adoption of these will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/369/23. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 135 votes in favour, 45 votes against and no abstentions. We are now deciding on provisions requiring a simple majority of the single proposal containing over-extensive amendments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/369/23. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 135 votes in favour, 46 votes against and no abstentions. There is a series of provisions on certain house rules 10/2014. [[ANNEX II 24.]] H/368. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the decision and the final vote. H/368/6. H/368/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of this will require a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts H/368/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 135 votes in favour, 47 votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, under the provisions of the Fundamental Law, the adoption of a single proposal requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/368/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 135 votes in favour, 47 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, In line with our agreed agenda, decisions are now being taken to accept the responses to the interpellations made yesterday. Mr Zoltán Varga, representative of DK, representative of I/527. No response was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 126 votes in favour, 56 votes against and one abstention. Congressman Zoltán Sas, representative of Jobbik, I/626. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 127 votes in favour, 55 votes against and one abstention. Congresswoman Éva Sebők, representative of Momentum, I/629. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 128 votes in favour, 54 votes against and one abstention. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, MSZP representative, I/625. No response was accepted. I ask the Parliament to accept the Vala st. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 122 votes in favour, 57 votes against and one abstention. Mr. President Novak, representative of our country, I/537. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 130 votes in favour, 25 votes against and 4 abstentions. Mr Sándor Berki, representative of the Dialogue, I/628. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 124 votes in favour, 54 votes against and one abstention. Congresswoman Bernadett Bakos, representative of the LMP, I/622. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 126 votes in favour, 54 votes against and one abstention. Mr Zsolt Gréczy, representative of DK, representative of I/623. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 125 votes in favour, 56 votes against and one abstention. Dear Parliament, The election of four members of the Hungaricum Committee now follows. President of the Parliament S/696. has presented its proposal to the European Parliament and to the Council. XXX of 2012 on Hungarian National Values and Hungaricums Act No. 14 Four members of the Hungaricum Committee are delegated by the Parliament. On the proposal of the Committee on Agriculture, the Speaker of Parliament, Mr Sándor Lezsák and Mr István Simicskó, on the basis of a pro-government nomination, Mr Dávid Dócs, on the basis of a opposition proposal, and on the proposal of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, Mr Varga Simeon initiates a representative of the minority. I ask the Honourable Parliament that S/696. It shall elect four members of the Hungaricum Committee, as proposed. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament elected four members of the Hungaricum Committee by 152 votes to one, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, Now the solemn oath and the oath papers will be signed. With all due respect, Mr Sándor Lezsák, Mr István Simicskó, Mr Dávid Dócs and Mr Varga Simeon spokesperson, please come to the center of the room and take their oath. I would ask Mr Attila Gelencsér to read the text of the oath, and I would ask those in the Chamber to listen to it standing up according to our custom. Here you go, notary. [[The people in this room stand up. Sándor Lezszak, Dr. István Simicskó, Dávid Dócs and Szimeon Varga step into the center of the room. Attila Gelencsér reads the words of the oath.]]
u2022-07-19-40	Me, Sándor Lezsák/Dr. István Simicskó/Dávid Dócs/Varga Simeon I vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; I exercise my position as a member of the Committee for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God. [[Applause.]] [[12.10]]
u2022-07-19-41	Thank you very much. Have a seat, fellow Members. I now ask Mr. Victor Vinnai to prepare the oath papers for signature. I ask the elected members of the Hungaricum Committee to sign the oath papers. [[It's happening. The Dr. Winner Vinnai, who signed the oath document, congratulates the elected members and gives copies of the signed oath document.]] Dear Parliament, Allow me to congratulate Mr Sándor Lezsák, István Simicskó, Dávid Dócs and Mr. Varga Simeon on their election and their work and wish them good luck and the blessing of God. [[It's a rare applause.]] Please take your seats, because there will be further votes. Thank you very much. I would also ask the notary to take his place, so that we can continue the vote. Dear House, The election of the notary of the Parliament will follow. At the initiative of the head of the DK faction, Mr Speaker of the S/695. In his Opinion No.2 he proposed that the Honourable Assembly elect Ms Ágnes Vadai as notary of the Parliament. A proposal for amendment to the motion cannot be tabled; Parliament shall decide on the official by open vote and without debate. I ask the Honourable Parliament, therefore, to elect Ágnes Vadai as the notary of the Parliament. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Ms Ágnes Vadai to the notary of the Parliament with 175 votes in favour, no votes against, with one abstention. [[Applause.]] Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of Parliament and myself, to congratulate you on the election of notary Mrs Ágnes Vadai, and wish you every success in your work. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Thank you, Mr. President.]] Dear Parliament, It follows in line with the 11/2022 on the establishment of committees, the election of members and officials of the Parliament. [[V. 2.]] A decision to amend a decision. S/694 put forward by the President We have all been able to get to know the proposal on the website. I now call on Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa to present the content of the personal proposal put forward by the President. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2022-07-19-42	Dear Parliament, 11/2022 on the establishment of parliamentary committees and the election of its members and officials [[V. 2.]] OGY Decision hereinafter referred to as "OGY Decision 1' is amended as follows: Instead of Mrs Erzsébet Németh DK, Balázs Barkóczi, DK, Zoltán Varga, DK, instead Balázs Barkóczi, DK, and László Varju, DK, instead Zoltán Varga, elected as a member of the Committee from DK. Point 2 of the OGY Decision is amended as follows: Parliament elects Balázs Barkóczi, DK, instead of László Varju, DK, member of the Committee. According to paragraph 3, Section 4 of the OGY Decision is amended as follows: Parliament elects Zoltán Varga, DK, Chairman of the Committee, Balázs Barkóczi, DK, Zoltán Varga, DK, instead of Balázs Barkóczi, Vice-President of the Committee. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2022-07-19-43	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, First, on the basis of points 1, 2 and 4 of the proposal, we decide on the election of the members of the committee, after which, according to point 3 of the proposal, we decide on the Commission official from among the members of the committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament that S/694. It shall elect the members of the committees by adopting points 1, 2 and 4. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected the members of the committees with 180 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament that S/694. According to point 3 of the proposal No.3, Zoltán Varga is elected president of the People's Welfare Committee from among the members of the Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament elected Zoltán Varga to the Chairman of the Committee on Welfare with 174 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament that S/694. Point 3 of the proposal No.3 elects Balázs Barkóczi as Vice-President of the Committee on European Affairs from among the members of the Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Balázs Barkóczi as Vice-President of the Committee on European Affairs with 179 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament that S/694. According to point 3 of the proposal No.3, Balázs Barkóczi is elected Vice-President of the Committee on Agriculture from among the members of the Committee. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Balázs Barkóczi as Vice-President of the Committee on Agriculture with 179 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. Thank you very much for your cooperation. We've reached the end of the decisions. [[Applause. Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm now ordering a five-minute technical break to deal with current affairs. [[Break: 12.18 12.25]] (President: Dr. János Latorcai) Notes: Attila Gelencsér and Dániel Z. Carpathian)
u2022-07-19-44	I would like to ask my fellow pro-government Members that those who are now forced to leave the Chamber on an urgent matter should do so as quickly as possible so that we can continue our work. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today, and now we are going to take the floor after the agenda. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Member of the Jobbik Group, the notary of the Parliament, has applied for a speech after the agenda. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2022-07-19-45	Mr President, Dear House, Before Parliament takes a summer break, it voted in favour of the budget. This is traditionally the most important bill of the year, but we can now say that it has the largest collection of money for the decade, because from one year to the next, VAT revenue is increasing by more than HUF 1600 billion, which the Government of Hungary wants to realise and will realise in the next period. We can see that this brutal burden of 1,600 billion was mysterious, and in the course of the debate we did not find out how Hungary's Government was expecting such a leap in terms of VAT revenue. Then, as we discussed the elimination and abolition of the reduction of the rent, we began to understand what could cause such a leap in VAT revenues and generate this additional amount of money for the Government of Hungary. After all, if you look at the average bills and expect them to increase, say, two to three times the amount, then these accounts are made up of three factors: the price of energy used, the system usage fee, which probably does not increase to multiples if you count under market conditions, but thirdly, this is typically 27 percent of VAT. This means that if a person's bills are doubled, the amount of VAT he pays may double. In this way, the Government of Hungary can enrich itself with hundreds of billions of extra profit in a crisis caused by the release of market prices to Hungarian citizens. We therefore expect the Government of Hungary not to realize this type of extra tax, not to spend the Hungarian people's money on anything else, but to give up VAT revenue in this catastrophic situation at least in terms of bills. It can be seen that families in typical situations can also be in a very, very insufferable situation. Obviously, for the time being, only the press is discussing possible scenarios, because we are still waiting for their detailed rules after the announcement, but we can see that a rural family living in normal conditions, who maintain themselves in the care of animals, is now paying approximately HUF 65 thousand for electricity, but soon this could reach a level of up to 400,000 if we just multiply their consumption by the expected market prices, and only the VAT on this is over HUF 85 thousand, so it's more than all their total accounts so far. By letting go of the VAT, their burdens could also be reduced. The typical situation of a single-child couple in Budapest's agglomeration and in the energy-inefficient Kádár cube can lead to a situation where only its monthly gas bill can amount to HUF 41,000, and the VAT amount is more than HUF 8700. Here too, the release of VAT creates a situation that may be a little easier to manage. Living in a district heating apartment with two small children seems to result in a situation where it is still worth playing chess with the border, with the energy border in the press, and perhaps the greater burden can be avoided. But if a member of the couple living here, or both, work at home offices, work from home, then their electricity consumption is certain, and it is certain that they will be out of the limit that could provide a basis for the reduced amount, and thus their electricity bills will be at least doubled, and their VAT will be much higher than in the previous period. [[12.30]] And finally, a 56 - square - foot [56 sq m] rent was counted, where a couple with no children lived. Obviously electricity is used quite forcefully here too, air conditioning or yes or no, but the 15,000 HUF bill so far may rise by the end of summer by 40,000 HUF to 55,000 HUF. The VAT on this is more than HUF 11,000, so it is almost as much as the total amount of the invoice so far. These stories also show that the crowd of Hungarian families may be in an unmanageable position. We therefore expect the government to at least give up its VAT revenue on this issue, to keep the children's children safe in any case so that they are not put in a worse position than they have been, and although we have adopted the budget today, but I feel that it is time to think about a supplementary budget now, since the papyros approved by the government calculates a 5% inflation rate, a three hundred and a few forints, obviously it is unsustainable. If the bled-out of the kata and the abolition of the reduction of the overhead costs are included in the impact, then this budget adopted today is no longer in the context of reality. So I'm trying to get the government to start developing a supplementary budget right away. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2022-07-19-46	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Ladies and gentlemen, László Keresztes, to our fellow Member of the LMP, his speech at the address of our city, Pécs, is considered withdrawn because the Member is not present. Bencze János is also considered withdrawn as our betterman fellow Member, who will be next? He also put forward a statement on the title, as Mr President is also not present in the Chamber. The floor is subject to participation in the Chamber. After the agenda, our colleague, Balázs Simon Róbert, from the Fidesz Group, applied for a post-meeting speech on how does Audi contribute to the development of Győr's plant responsible for electric propulsion until 2025? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-07-19-47	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Despite the global war crisis, Hungary remains attractive to foreign investors, which is a serious recognition of the work of those living here. Győr, the centre of the constituency I represent, has a prominent role in this, which hosts the dominant player of the automotive industry, Audi Hungaria Zrt., which represents the backbone of the Hungarian economy. Audi has been present in Hungary since 1993, its headquarters and six sites are located in Győr. The Győr factory has a wide range of activities, besides engine and car manufacturing, it is also involved in toolmaking and technical development. In June 2001, the engine development centre in Győr was handed over, which expanded its development activities by vehicle development at the end of 2011. The company's turnover in 2021 was EUR 7.7 billion, which showed a 3% increase compared to the previous business period. In 2021, Audi Hungaria Zrt. The value of its investments amounted to EUR 162,6 million, thus achieving a total investment of EUR 12 billion since its establishment. Thus, Audi Hungaria is the largest investor in the Hungarian automotive industry. Most of the investments in 2021 have come to the area of electric engine production, including new generation electric drives, PPE, Premium platform electric engines, and to the production area of internal combustion engines such as the new four-cylinder engine generation. Further investments have been made to expand the company's tool factory, creating new capacities for exclusive production. Thanks to the investment, more body parts can be made in Győr for exclusive and sports models of the Volkswagen and Audi Group. Audi Hungaria, the world's largest engine factory in 2021, produced a total of 1 620 767 engines, of which 96 976 e-engines for its customers. The company achieved record performance in vehicle production in 2021, with 171 015 Audi models rolling off the production line. In the first quarter of 2022, 39 944 cars were manufactured in Győr, from which vehicles are transported to 122 countries around the world. In the exclusive production of the tool factory 33 814 body parts were made for the sport models of the Volkswagen group. It is also important to mention that Audi Hungaria has been operating carbon neutrally for over a year. In addition to manufacturing and toolmaking, the Győr factory also builds heavily on R &amp; D activities, which contribute to the competitiveness of Hungary and the creation of an innovative environment. According to the Company Information Register, on 1 June 2022, the number of employees in the company was 12,892. Ladies and gentlemen, As I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, last year Audi Hungaria Zrt. as the world's largest engine factory, it produced more than 1.6 million engines, with an even greater share of modern e-motors in the future. Progress has come to another milestone. Audi is building a new plant for electric propulsion in Győr, creating 500 new jobs. Production will start in 2025, for which the company will develop a new production area. This development is supported by the Hungarian government with HUF 8.5 billion, as it is a priority to further strengthen the position of Hungary in the electric car industry. As part of the investment, a completely new electric engine type, MEB Eco, the assembly of modular electric drive matrix, two components and the production of power electronics can take place at the Győr site. The engine type will be delivered to smaller electric models Cupra, VW, Škoda, with a planned volume of 3 thousand units per day, which can reach a million items per year in the long term. I was also at the press conference in June at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs where we presented the details of the new major investment with Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Péter Szijjártó and Alfons Dintner, Audi Hungaria Zrt. President of his board of directors. The construction works will start in October 2022 and will be completed in 2025. Ladies and gentlemen, I can say that the cooperation between Audi Hungaria and the Hungarian government is a true success story, since today nearly 13 thousand employees work for the company, but together with the service companies it provides a livelihood for some 25,000 people. Finally, I would like to point out that Audi Hungaria is also at the forefront of electromobility, because this is the chance of economic growth in the future. I am sure that this development will further strengthen the position of Hungary and the Hungarian automotive industry in the electric vehicle industry. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-19-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr János Süli, State Secretary, responds to what has been said. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-07-19-49	Mr. President. Honourable Members, Congressman! I regret that only a few of the opposition's ranks are here, as this is a good example of not only a assembly plant, but also of the fact that the government is being criticised for the fact that a network of assembly plants has actually been established in Hungary, but it is also clearly demonstrated that there has been significant investments, significant innovations and significant knowledge in this region for decades, as not only the city's good taxpayer is Audi, but it also provides good progress for young people in university relations, dual training, and in addition to manufacturing research and development, so the development of these new types of engines is already possible for young researchers, creators and university colleagues from Hungary to participate in its development. It was said here that his behaviour was environmentally conscious, so not only the engines, cars he manufactures, but also the overall behaviour of the factory. It installed 16,000 square meters of solar panels on the top of the factory, one of Europe's largest solar panels installed in the manufacturing unit. This provides the energy needs of about 3,800 family homes, and saves a significant 5 thousand tons of carbon dioxide emissions. Movement of equipment between parts of the plant also takes place in electric vehicles with electric trucks. And it is also an objective to ensure that cars produced are not delivered by road to users, but by rail transport. Not to mention, if you look at the inscriptions and subsidies on the Győr athletes' jersey, but the same applies to the area of culture. So if we integrate these multinationals well into Hungarian sites, they can provide significant support not only in the field of technical implementation, but also in the field of science and culture. [[12.40]] And, as I have said, there is, of course, a significant role that such an institution can play in university research and teaching grants. As the congressman spoke of it, he gives direct livelihoods to more than 12,000 people and 25,000 families. This is also important, because here we do not typically employ employees with minimum wage, but provide them with an above-average allowance, since knowledge requirements are also above average. Once again, I can confirm that the example is very good. At Mercedes we can give the same with the embedding of Kecskemét, and the Mercedes factory is characterised by continuous developments for the future. This means that not only now will it provide significant opportunities for Győr and the settlements around Győr, but this is also the long-term way out, with which Hungary can take the lead. And what has been said here has also served not only to survive the Covid epidemic, but also to establish the basis for the development of the next period. The aid of 8.5 billion was also intended to produce Volkswagen cars with these modern electric units and drive units from 2025 onwards. Thank you very much for your attention. I hope that more of these fruitful cooperation can be established in Hungary. Thank you, and I wish you all good freedom. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-19-50	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Zsolt Nyitrai of the Fidesz Group has also applied for a post-meeting address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-07-19-51	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The representatives of the Hungarian Parliament adopted Hungary's budget for 2023 at today's meeting. I think that this is a matter of such gravity that we should not only remember it on the agenda but also on the agenda, and we should list the most important messages of this budget, the budget that has already been adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, It must be seen that this budget has been made in extremely difficult times, in difficult environments and in difficult circumstances, because there is war going on in the neighbourhood, there is war inflation, and faulty Brussels decisions, so-called sanctions, do not help anyone's life, but only deepen the damage to war, and the coronal virus pandemic is not yet fully over. This budget has therefore been drawn up in such a difficult situation. We, the representatives of Fidesz-KDNP, are clearly of the opinion that the most important thing is to preserve the peace and security of Hungary, to ensure the country's energy supply and not to have the costs of war paid to the Hungarian people. Dear Parliament, When we received the opportunity and responsibility of governance in 2010, we made a major alliance with several social groups. It was such a very important alliance that has continued since then, which we have made with our retired, elderly fellow citizens. More than 2 million pensioners live in Hungary. Their moral and material appreciation, I must say, is continuous. We owe them thanks and respect, and in their direction. So far, pensioners have been given a pension premium four times, and they have always received an Erzsébet voucher from the Government of Hungary in order to help them prepare before the holidays. If we go back a bit in time, it can be said that in 2010 the average pension was 97 thousand forints, and in January 2022 this means more than 163 thousand forints. Then we gave it back, returned the 13th month pension taken by the left. This is also what the budget for 2023, which has now been adopted, is about. We also made an alliance with the Hungarian families, the Hungarian families who raised the child. While, before 2010, the left-wing governments of Gyurcsány-Bajna broke the system of family support, Viktor Orbán and Fidesz-KDNP said that the Hungarian family, the Hungarian child, was the key to the future survival of Hungarians, and that children should be encouraged and given all support to Hungarian families in relation to our opportunities. This is also the issue of the budget that has now been adopted. I think that at this point we should also talk about the protection of electricity, because the budget of 2023 is also a budget for the protection of electricity. What I can tell you is that, for example, in terms of petrol prices, we have a price stop, it costs 480 forints a litre of petrol. If it weren't for this, Hungarian families would have to pay 800-900 HUF per litre for each tank. With 50 liters of gas, this 480 HUF fixed petrol price means that a family can save more than 12,000 forints on a 50 litre tank. As far as the reduction of the overhead and its protection is concerned, this has happened and is happening, as the reduction of the overhead costs remains 100 percent for the average consumer. However, there is no precedent for this in any of Europe's countries, and I would like to emphasise this to you. Obviously, there is a war, a changed situation, and in this situation it is possible to pay a market price above average consumption if there is an average consumption of electricity, a reduction in overhead costs, and a market price above average consumption. This is a changed situation, there is war inflation in Brussels' bad decisions. Security is the priority area of the budget. It is important that Hungary is able to protect its citizens. It takes a soldier and a modern force. The budget that we have just adopted will also facilitate and ensure this. At this point, I would like to thank everyone who has been involved in the preparation of the budget, all experts, colleagues, all the Members who have given their views on this and all the factions and Members of Parliament who have supported its adoption. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2022-07-19-52	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Mr Zoltán Sas, representative of Jobbik, asked to speak after the agenda with a title on police wages. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-07-19-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, In recent weeks, the increase in police wages has played an extremely important role here in Parliament, but also in the public discourse of society. For Jobbik, this is a very important task for many years, a high priority goal, which is why we have initiated the increase in police wages on numerous occasions. I myself tabled an amendment to the budget for next year, in which I initiated an increase in the law enforcement salary fund from HUF 38 650 to HUF 50 000, given that since 2008, 14 years ago, this salary has remained unchanged. The government, in good times, has seen our initiative to pay the police better, and, although it is not a law, it is a government decree that has ensured that our police and soldiers bring more money home at the end of the month. It has to be said that this has been a welcome and important step forward. However, they say that the devil is in the details, so it is worth talking about my motion to increase the law-enforcement stipend, which, by the power of the law, could have guaranteed that our police officers could receive a long-term and stable salary increase in a predictable way. At the moment, this Regulation provides for the possibility for the professional salary bonus to divert their salary compared to the law enforcement salary base, so it will be possible for them to receive more money. I hope that in the not-so-distant future, we will not have to talk about who gets this, who doesn't get it, who gets it, but will work effectively and well. This is a very important issue now, because the international security situation and the situation at our borders have justified the protection of our borders by an independent organisational unit. Jobbik began to promote this some decade ago in such a way that on several occasions we proposed to bring an independent border guard to life. [[12.50]] I'm afraid that didn't happen. However, here I can welcome the government's measure of establishing the regiment of border hunters, and I hope that, as before, the border guard, which was a forward-looking, modern and efficient organisation in Europe, will also be able to achieve social appreciation and to carry out the mandatory tasks required by law for it, which is in the common interest of all of us. It should also be noted that the current situation at the border and I am talking in particular about the southern border, the violence of smugglers around the border is becoming increasingly unsustainable; everyday damage to border protection equipment; and unfortunately, we can say that according to statistical data, there is a personal injury every week between Hungarian soldiers and police officers protecting the border. This warns us, and I would like to draw the attention of the decision-makers to the fact that in the training and equipment of the members of the border hunting regiment, they do take into account the fact that they are exposed to such risks to professional populations protecting our borders. We hope that these attacks will be reduced, but if you do not give it to God, they will continue or possibly become stronger, then the members of the new border hunting regiment will be able and able to prevent these attacks, both because of their qualifications and because of their equipment, and we hope that there will be no personal injury or even worse result, as we have seen in recent times that these smuggling gangs on the Serbian side have already taken arms against each other, which, unfortunately, has resulted in death. The pro-police Jobbik is committed to honoring law enforcement workers. In addition to the security of our country, the nation's security begins with the protection of borders. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2022-07-19-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, How do we get out of the Jobbik Group? With the title Noémi Végh speaking after the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2022-07-19-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, There are many of us whose grandparents retired from the place where they first started working. At twenty - year - old, they had children, bought apartments, and apparently maneuvered well among their duties. But what about the younger generation? According to psychologists, Y, but mostly Z-generation workers, had the worst possible stress factors, ranging from financial uncertainty to inability to relax. Of course, older workers have experienced similar pressures at the beginning of their careers, but these factors are much stronger now, because at present the formula seems that if a young person wants to stand on his own feet, in most cases he will not be able to maintain a rent without parental help. However, this help is given to few. And then we did not talk about the cost of everyday life, such as food, bills, travel, clothing, recreation. In Hungary prices have increased on average by one and a half times in recent years. In 2021, the number of apartments used in Budapest increased by 9 percent and the number of new ones increased by 14 percent. The current rising inflation is pushing prices up and down, with which wages are not keeping pace. In the event that a student works next to a school or university and earns about 150 thousand forints, he must spend at least half of his salary on rent if he can find a room for rent in Budapest between 70 and 80 thousand forints. The Y-generations are also not in a simple situation. I want to achieve the same standard of living as their parents, work as much or even more for it, but the reality is that they actually achieve it. Are we surprised, then, if our young people prefer to go abroad and do dishes instead of building their future and our future and having the engines of our economy and society? Not to mention the fact that the government's proposal for a catapult voted in a rush-tempo discourages young people even more from getting along at home, as they make it almost impossible to start businesses. What does the government offer today to a young beginner? As I said in my previous speech, most young people do not start a family at the age of 20 because they do not want to, but because the current economic conditions make it very difficult, often making it impossible. Thus, goals and plans outside work are often just dreams. Jobbik is always on the side of Hungarian young people and Hungarian families. We therefore continue to urge the introduction of zero-percent VAT, which would help Hungarian people immediately. We also demand that we support our young people, take care of them, because without them our country has no future. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2022-07-19-56	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the first session of the Parliament's autumn session is expected to take place on 26 September. Thank you for your work today and so far. I wish all my fellow Members, the minority advocates, all the staff of the Parliamentary Office and all those who are monitoring our work, a good holiday and a good summer. The meeting's closed.
