u2022-09-26-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. Some opposition representatives remain seated. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] I welcome my fellow Members on the first day of the autumn session of the Parliament, which I hereby open. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Dear House, I am fulfilling my sad duty to announce that seven of our former fellow Members have passed away in the past. In the first free parliamentary elections after the change of regime, Mrs.Lászlón Tarján obtained a mandate in the 2nd constituency of Somogy County as a candidate of the Independent Kisgazda Party, and she was the parliamentary representative of the party for a term. Under his mandate, he was a member of the Environment Committee and Secretary of State for the Environment of the Antall-Boross Government. Besides his political career, he worked as a forest engineer. He passed away 90 years of his life. Csaba Jüttner obtained a mandate from the national list of SZDSZ in 2004 and was a member of the Parliament until the end of the term. During his term of office, he assisted the Police Committee. From 1994 he was a Member of the Parliament of Vásárosnamény, and from 1998 to 2010, he was the mayor of the city for three cycles. He passed away 65 years of his life. András Várhelyi obtained his mandate in the 1998 parliamentary elections from the Heves county regional list of the Independent Kisgazda Party, and until 2001 he was a member of the faction. After that, he was an independent representative until the end of the cycle. Under his mandate, he was Vice-President of the Tourism Committee and member of the Committee on Culture and Press. From 1991 he was spokesperson of the Ministry of Transport and then head of the Prime Minister's Press Office. In addition to his public activities, he worked as a journalist and university professor. He passed away at 69. Lajos Zsupos obtained his mandate in the 8th constituency of Hajdú-Bihar County as a candidate for the MDF in the 1990 parliamentary elections, and he was a member of the Hungarian Parliament for a term. Under his mandate, he assisted the work of the Economic Committee and the Committee on Agriculture. In addition to his political activities, he worked as an agricultural engineer. He passed away 86 years of his life. István Szalay obtained his mandate from the National List of MSZP in the 1998 elections, and until 2002 he was the party's representative. Under his mandate, he was a member of the Committee on Culture and Press. Between 1994-98 he was the mayor of Szeged, and between 2002-2003 he was the government's secretary of state for ecclesiastical affairs. He worked as a mathematician, a professor of politics and culture. He was 78 years old. János Fuzik was a member of the National Assembly as the first Slovak minority advocate in the parliamentary term from 2014 to 2018. Under his mandate, he was elected first president of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities. From 1999 he was president of the National Slovak Municipality for 15 years. From 2020 he led the Consulate General of Hungary in Osijek. He was awarded the Knight's Cross of the Order of Merit of the Republic of Hungary in 2006. He died in 64 years of his life. Mária Wittner is a freedom fighter of 56, former Parliamentary Representative of Fidesz, who obtained the mandate from the party's national list in the parliamentary elections in 2006, and was a member of the Hungarian Parliament for two cycles until 2014. Under his mandate, he assisted the work of the Committee on Human Rights, Minority, Civil and Religious Affairs and the Committee on Employment and Labour. In the course of the 1956 revolution, Mária Wittner joined the insurgents during the siege of the Radio, treated wounded, and then participated in armed battles until the 4th of No-vember. He was arrested in the summer of 1957 and sentenced to death in the first degree on 23 July 1958. He spent 200 days in prison for death row, and in 1959, the second-degree court changed his sentence to life imprisonment. In March 1970, after 13 years of captivity, he was released among the last. It became involved in political life in 1989, and after the change in the system, it played an active role in the activities of a number of organizations of 56. In 1991 he received the grand cross of the Order of Merit of the Republic of Hungary and the 1956 medal; in 2006 he received the St. Stephen's Prize, in 2016 he received an award for Human Dignity. Dunakesi, Csepel, and József City have also made him a citizen. He passed away 85 years of his life. I would ask you to pay tribute to our fellow Members with silent standing. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the memory of the deceased with a minute's silence.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, I declare that on 12 August 2022, Member Peter James informed me that he had resigned from the parliamentary group of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary. The Member shall continue his work as an independent member. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: He hasn't done anything yet...]] I would also like to announce that on 19 September 2022, Hajnalka Szabó and representatives of Noémi Végh informed me that their representatives had given up their seats. I declare that the number of Members of Parliament is currently 197. I declare that the resolution house rule is 3. § 2 and Art. Pursuant to paragraph 3 of paragraph 3 of the Article, the Group of Dialogue elected Mrs Szabó Timea as Head of the Group from 26 September 2022. I declare that Mr Máté Kocsis and Mr István Simicskó Group leaders informed me that Mr Tibor Navracsics joined the parliamentary group of the Christian Democratic People's Party on 22 September. [[13.10]] Dear Parliament, Because of the fractions of Jobbik, MSZP and Momentum, as well as the same number of members of Mi Hazank and Dialogue, the notaries decided on 9 May 2022 on the order of the speeches. Decision No 17/B. § 2 and 3 provide that the order of the speeches between the same number of political groups varies from one ordinary session to the first floor of the political group entitled to speak, and the other group is one back. In view of the fact that the number of the Group of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary decreased by one person on 12 August 2022, with the same number of 10-10 Members currently in possession of the MSZP and Momentum Group. Between the two six-man factions, Mi Hazank and the Group of Dialogue, the number of people will continue to be matched. According to the provisions of the resolution rule, in the autumn session in 2022, the MSZP group beats the Momentum group in their order of opposition, and the Dialogue Group precedes the Group of Hungary. Dear Parliament, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has applied for a speech before the agenda today, to whom I give the floor. Here you go.
u2022-09-26-1	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Welcome to the opening session of the Hungarian Parliament. According to our constitutional customs, I will report to you on the decisions of the government that we have taken between the two sessions. As you know, in recent months there have been serious, shocking changes in the countries of Europe due to a drastic increase in energy prices. The global economy is threatened by a decline and the European economy is threatened by a crisis. What is happening around us now defines our lives more strongly than usual. Dear House, We're at war. The war is taking place between Ukraine and Russia in our eastern neighbourhood, yet, step by step, an increasing part of the world is becoming the sufferer of the war. The war between Ukraine and Russia would be a local war, but Western economic sanctions have turned it into a global economic war, so today we are facing a local armed war and a global economic war at the same time. The first question is, how long will this war last? In the spring, there were many who hoped for a short, a few weeks or months of war. Today, it is clear to everyone that we must expect a prolonged war. Ukraine is supported by arms and money by America and the European Union, and Russia's reserves are infinite, both in man and in arms. [[Bence of Turdai: Wrong!]] We must therefore prepare for this war to continue here, in our neighbour, this year and next year. Ukraine is Hungary's neighbour. Perhaps that is why Hungary's position differs from the majority of Western positions. Today, the West is on the side of war, and Hungary is on the side of peace. [[Moraj from the opposition parties. An intervention from DK's ranks: Jesus!]] Instead of continuing and deepening the war, we demand an immediate truce and peace talks. [[Bence of Turda: The immediate withdrawal of Russian troops!]] In this global economic war, each country has its own interests. For Hungary, security, economic and national sovereignty are the most important. That's why in our budget, we created a Defense Fund. In addition to regular budgetary resources, we must spend on the development of the army, the protection of our borders and the strengthening of national security services. Soldiers are withdrawn for the protection of the southern borders. We've created the border-hunting forces to take their place. National security services are strengthened to be able to defend sovereignty in all areas. There are and there will be attempts to influence outside, there will be a disinformation war. [[Szabó Timea: That's for sure!]] We need to protect the country from these, too. [[Bence Tordai: Or import Russian propaganda!]] Dear House, War worries people, but families today are most directly affected by the economic consequences of war. First, inflation, rising prices, not only in Europe, but also in the Anglo-Saxon world. Forty years of unprecedented inflation is speeding up in developed countries. In some of the eurozone countries, inflation has already exceeded 20 percent. Estonians, Latvians, Lithuanians, Czechs, Bulgarians, Poles, Romanians, Slovenians, Slovaks, Croatians, Greeks, Spanish, like Hungary, are struggling with inflation above the EU level. [[13.20]] The countries of Central Europe are far above average. In our region, inflation is the highest, and central banks have started a marked interest rate increase cycle. Country risk increases have risen significantly, public deficits are increasing everywhere and public debt is increasing. The level of price increases has been unprecedented for decades as well. It's not the first time we've seen you, I've seen a lot of economic crises. During the Antall government, I saw 35 percent inflation, I saw inflation above 28 percent under the Horn government, and then, as Prime Minister, the Russian and Far East financial crisis in 1999. Even younger people can remember that in 2008 a global financial crisis caused headaches, including in Hungary. Those distresses were caused by the banking system, debt and foreign exchange loans. In addition, at that time, we had a government that had lost its capacity to act and was disintegrating. Two years ago, we experienced an economic downturn caused by the epidemic. At the time, jobs were closed because of the epidemic, borders closing due to the epidemic were a major threat to an open, export-oriented economy like Hungary. Now, in 2022, the cause of economic problems is the response to the Russian-Ukrainian war, i.e. the war sanctions and the energy prices that are increasing many times over. The increase in energy prices increases inflation in all countries. These harsh energy prices are not triggered by economic processes. The drastic increase in energy prices was clearly caused by sanctions. Thus, it is not the economy, but the policy that is responsible for the drastic increase in energy prices, and precisely the political decisions in Brussels. The price of natural gas in April 2022, in the second month of the war, was around EUR 100. Before the Hungarian elections in April, the European position was that, at the head of Germany, the sanctions had to be reasonable. We must not destroy European economies, so sanctions must not extend to energy. This was a sound view, as a sanction should always be imposed on economic sectors where we are stronger than the one we want to bring under sanctions. In the field of energy, we are Europe's dwarves, and Russia is a giant. This is the first time I've seen a dwarf impose a sanction on a giant. Ladies and gentlemen, In April, we were right to think that, although at a higher energy level, economic conditions could be planned despite the war. But in June 2022, the economic-commercial sanctions, including the oil transport penalty, were adopted in Brussels, and the gas purchase penalty was on the agenda, so from June 2022 the price of natural gas doubled in one month and then tripled in another month. As you may know, the Brussels rules link the price of electricity to the price of gas, so the same has happened in the electricity market. The market price for electricity in Europe was EUR 100 in April 2022, today ranging from EUR 400 to EUR 600. Meanwhile, the price of American gas and electricity is a fraction of European prices. Let us be clear: the countries of Europe today pay a penalty premium for oil, natural gas and electricity. The increase in energy prices also affects food prices. Grain prices are driven up by an increase in production costs. Fertiliser prices have tripled in six months. With us in Hungary, the 100% increase in energy prices results in an immediate general inflation rate of between 3 and 5 percent, i.e. an increase in energy prices that is now three to four times higher by 15 to 20 percent. That's what we live in today. Let us say openly: if sanctions were to be lifted, prices would fall back to half and inflation would be at least halved. Without sanctions, the European economy would recover and avoid a threatening recession. Dear House, When these sanctions were imposed on Europe in Brussels at the beginning of summer, that is not what Brussels bureaucrats promised. They promised that these sanctions would hurt Russia, not the people of Europe. Since then, it has been found that the sanctions imposed are also causing great damage to Europe. In fact, since the war, so in six months, Russia has gained EUR 158 billion in revenue from increased energy exports. This is more than the total annual export revenue of Russia in six months. In addition, half of this money, EUR 85 billion, has been paid by the countries of the European Union. We can safely say that sanctions have made European people poorer, and Russia has not fallen on its knees. This weapon backfired, with sanctions, Europe shot itself in the leg. In June in Brussels, bureaucrats also promised that sanctions would bring the end of the war. We don't see the end of the war today, and the energy bills are skyrocketing. European businesses do not or do not have a great deal of difficulty in producing sanctioned energy prices. We expect an answer, and all of Europe expects Brussels to answer the question of how long we are going to do this. If this goes on, the whole of Europe will die. It's time to be honest with our American friends about this, as long as it's not too late. There are more and more angry people in Europe. We're denials, we're denials. Brussels bureaucrats must understand that it is not possible to gamble with the fate of whole national economies and millions of people. That's irresponsible. And the answer to the high energy bills is to send them to Moscow, it's hurtful and offensive. It is no wonder that people who are angry and deceiving themselves are replacing the governments of countries that support sanctions one after another. Glory to Italy, Avanti ragazzi, but of course this doesn't apply tonight. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary has always dealt with economic sanctions with reservations. Our concerns were openly represented at all European forums, even when we were left alone with our opinions. Our arguments have been ignored and sanctions imposed on all European countries. The fashion in Brussels is that they are smarter than anyone and know everything better there. If they run out of arguments or are not justified by the facts, then those who oppose us are accused of violating European values, for example, we are not intellectually inspiring. Moreover, European treaties put democracy first among European values. And let us be honest about the fact that sanctions have not been imposed in a democratic way. The sanctions were decided by the bureaucrats in Brussels and the European elites. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] No one asked the people of Europe. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right!]] However, the price of sanctions is paid by the European people. I personally believe that, before sanctions become an irrevocable and long-term part of economic life, we also need to know the views of the people. Therefore, in Europe, we are the first to ask people about sanctions in Hungary. This is what we have done in the case of migration, the Covid epidemic and genderideology. We have managed to create a national unity and thus create a common basis for crisis management. We are launching a national consultation where the Hungarian people can express their views, agree with the sanctions, support the introduction of new sanctions or not. I ask the Hungarians to give their opinions, to tell me, because the sanctions will affect and affect the lives of all Hungarian families. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, As long as the sanctions and the penalty energy crisis continue, Hungary's most important task is to guarantee a secure energy supply. We must protect Hungarian families and also protect jobs against the energy prices that are sanctioned. I report to the Parliament that the government is able to secure Hungary's energy supply, and we have already secured it with our decisions made in the summer. There is enough natural gas, there is electricity, and there is oil. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]] The gas reservoirs have been filled, and the Russians and I have agreed on new shipments, which are constantly arriving in the country. [[Intercom from opposition lines: How much?]] With the gas in storage, we covered 41 percent of Hungary's annual consumption. We've also solved our oil supply. We have fought an exception to the general Russian oil embargo, not only for the Czechs but also for the Slovaks. It is a pity that in the Battle of Brussels they were nowhere to be seen, and they did not thank me for it. Dear House, We have our own electricity production, we are able to produce 65% of domestic demand, so we have a greater influence on the price of electricity. However, we need 85 percent of natural gas imported, so we can't really influence the price. We therefore need to reduce the use of domestic natural gas. That is what the state, public companies, public institutions must do, and that is what families and businesses must do. I would like to inform this House that we have made the following decisions over the summer, in addition to the discharge from the Brussels oil guarantee and the gas price. Currently, 35 percent of Hungary's energy consumption is natural gas. This will be reduced to 31 percent by the end of 2023 and reduced to below 30 percent by 2025. We have ordered an increase in domestic gas production from 1.5 billion cubic metres per year to 2 billion cubic metres per year. We've ordered a reboot of the Mátra power plant. We'll extend the operational time of the Paks power plant, and we'll finally get started on Paks II. for construction, too. The role of the nuclear power plant is indisputable, currently half of domestic electricity generation and 36 percent of domestic use. I call on the left-wing parties to stop hindering the development of the Hungarian nuclear industry. In fact, I ask the left to support Paks I.'s extension and Paks II. construction, too. Ladies and gentlemen, The government continues to protect Hungarian families. This year, a total of HUF 1127 billion remained for families in the form of tax breaks and income tax refunds. We paid the 13th month pension, we paid the inflation pension supplement, and we paid the pension premium at the end of the year. The tax exemption for young people under the age of 25 is valid and remains valid. We extended the gas stop and the food stop. We will also extend the interest stop that expires on 1 January until the middle of the following year. I would like to inform this House that the Hungarian Government is giving the greatest help in energy prices throughout the European Union. We maintain the reduced prices for the average consumption, and with this every Hungarian family saves an average of HUF 181 thousand a month. Moreover, the price of electricity, which has to be paid to households above average consumption, is in fact half of the actual market price. We can do this because we also have significant domestic production of electricity. Friends! Ladies and gentlemen, This means that energy support in Germany is 20% of the family's monthly income, 6 percent in Austria and 30 percent in Hungary. In other words, Hungarian support accounts for 36 percent of the average wage, 13 percent of the Germans and 5 percent of Austria. We create the money needed to protect families by placing an extra profit tax on some sectors of the economy: banks, energy companies, telecommunications companies and large trade chains. The amount received is sufficient for this year's price subsidies, and we have a good hope for the year 23 as well. In order to replace natural gas, we announced a reduced firewood and brown coal programme. In total, we help families with six things: reduced prices, firewood, brown coal, gas stop, food stop and interest stop. In the view of the government, honourable Members, helping families comes first, but immediately after that Hungarian businesses come. In order to prevent high energy prices, entrepreneurs will need all their strength, leadership and talent. [[13.40]] The government provides assistance in three ways: we have announced a programme of more than HUF 200 billion for small and medium-sized enterprises producing and energy intensive production, we will have a factory rescue programme and, if necessary, a new job protection action plan. Ladies and gentlemen, If we are to prevent the energy crisis, we must do the same thing that has led us to succeed before: support for a work-based economy and investment. There is currently about HUF 9400 billion, HUF 9,400 billion of public investment in Hungary, and we will carry them through without exception. We are not launching another state investment because of the uncertain economic situation, because we cannot guarantee that we will be able to complete them. Now we see resources and opportunities to support private investments that create jobs, because we need to put a forint where they add two more. If the economic situation in Europe is predictable again, then we will start public investment that has now been suspended. Dear House, The government has also updated its medium- and long-term energy strategy because of its sanctions energy prices. Based on the characteristics of Hungary, we expect that our country will remain a net oil importer in the longer term. Now 59 percent of imports come from Russia, 20 percent from Kazakhstan, 8 percent from Iraq and another 8 percent from Croatia. A plan for the complete transformation of our electricity system has also been completed. This includes network development, the construction of new power plants, Paks II and Paks I. time extension. This is EUR 16 billion, i.e. HUF 6400 billion investment, Paks II. not counting the costs of its construction. In addition, we are talking about EUR 28,5 billion, or HUF 11 400 billion in development. The huge numbers show that this is the biggest development of the next ten years. A total of 32 major investments are being made. Without these investments, the Hungarian energy system cannot be modernised and the international competitiveness of the Hungarian economy cannot be ensured, so this work must and will be carried out. The necessary financial resources have been promised by the European Union. If the bureaucrats in Brussels do not give us the money that Hungary deserves, we will get the money from other financial sources. Negotiations on this have also been launched with the European Union and other international partners. I would like to inform this House that the government has simplified and accelerated the procedures for solar and geothermal-based heat investments. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The full renewal of the Hungarian energy system will remain on the agenda during the current crisis of sanctions, because the government has decided not to give up its national strategy goals during the next two years' crisis management. In the next two years, we will continue to develop transport networks and continue our family support programmes. Although the number of children born has increased, families have grown and have grown, but a breakthrough has not yet been achieved. Time here literally means life, so family support will be further broadened. The final form of the 2023 budget will be established in early December and new family support measures will be introduced. Similarly, we must not stop with the development-based economy, we must build the Hungarian economy based on research and development, alongside the work-based economy, more precisely on its base. [[Bence of Turdai: This requires trained people!]] The lokomotives of this are our reorganized universities, so we will also carry out our university development program and speed it up. We will also do so with our military and military-building programmes, and, of course, we will also continue with our national unification policy. Finally, this House, I confirm that, despite our debates with Brussels, Hungary continues to imagine its future as a member of the European Union. We Hungarians are a European nation, and we are just as important a shade of the community of European nations as any Member State. The European Union will only be strong and viable if it retains and respects all its nuances. Those who remove our rights imagine Europe as a one-faced, phalanster. We stick to our traditions, our national characteristics and our own senses, whether others like it or not. We are a proud nation who is aware that he has always given the world more than he has given him. This is our Hungarian contribution to the great joint performance of European peoples, which our friends can count on in the future. Dear House, What are the odds for the months ahead? Hungary is now in a better state than in 2008, when the financial crisis almost deboned Hungary. Since then, we have created a million new jobs, we have increased the value of exports by 50 percent, and we are still able to grow beyond the European Union's average. We have significantly reduced labour taxes, personal income tax has been halved since 2010, the tax wedge has been reduced from 55 percent to 41 percent. Hungary is stronger today than ever since the fall of communism. The sanctions are also causing us serious damage, but I see a chance that the government will bring Hungary out of this crisis as well. The government will be at a strong pace in the coming months. I also encourage my fellow Members to make the most of themselves at the meetings before us. Thank you for your attention. The Good God over all of us, Hungary above all else. [[A big round of applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-09-26-2	Dear Parliament, It will now be possible to respond to the leaders and deputy leaders of the political groups in eight or eight minutes, due to the duration of the Prime Minister's speech. First, I give the floor to László Toroczkai, the leader of the group of Mi Hazank.
u2022-09-26-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, Dear Parliament, We have not heard anything new from the Prime Minister, and we have known these sentences in recent months. The last time we were able to exchange ideas here, the Prime Minister said that if I remember correctly, I would try to quote literally that there might be cases in which we can speak intelligently to each other. I think that there is a crisis in Hungary and the world that this is necessary, that we need a real national consultation, but what we have heard here today from the Prime Minister is not a real consultation, and it would be very good to consult people in advance, and not when you have already taken these decisions. [[13.50]] And we know very well that you and Fidesz are constantly measuring public opinion, so you know very well that public opinion is thanks to God! He thinks in the same way as Fidesz or even the Hungarian Movement, so he rejects these sanctions. The question is that if the government rejects these sanctions and people reject them in Hungary, and they stand in a different way to the war in Ukraine than many European nations, then why did you, Prime Minister, at the Versailles summit, vote for the launch of these sanctions; why it seems that there is still a kind of double speech: Mr. Prime Minister speaks differently in Parliament and speaks differently when he is in Brussels, and obviously through the media filter the information that is being heard out there. The other very important issue that Prime Minister has spoken about here for a long time is the bureaucrats in Brussels and the relationship with democracy. So not only do we reject the faction of the Hungarian Movement from Brussels bureaucrats pushing us into these sanctions against European and Hungarian interests, but we also reject the fact that they are now openly attacking democratic elections, such as in Italy, Poland or even in Hungary. So the government can count on the support of the Hungarian Movement if it genuinely wants to represent the interests of Hungarian democracy and the Hungarian nation in Brussels, but at the same time I look forward to a reaction to why the Hungarian Government seems to be working with Brussels on certain issues. We would go much further in this regard, so we say not only that we should not send a weapon into this war, but we also say that they should release Hungary and the Hungarian people from all consequences. So it is true that we are NATO members, but there is no obligation to have Americans or even NATO troops present here in Hungary in such a powdery situation. Then, in the middle of summer, at the end of the spring session, we made concrete proposals, and I myself made concrete proposals to Prime Minister. It seems that we can no longer fit in the national consultation, because not only did Prime Minister not listen to my proposals, but it was precisely contrary to the subsequent range of government measures. So, for example, we asked the government to reduce or release the system charges, because this speech sounded very nice, but obviously the Hungarian people, be it the entrepreneur, be it the small pensioner, be it any Hungarian person, be it the account you will be interested in, you will be interested in what is in that account; and if you look at that account, you will see that the VAT content and the system usage fee are amazingly high worldwide. And for us to ask the government to reduce or cancel the system usage fee in this crisis situation or to accept the system usage fee, the transmission fee for electricity was increased by three and a half times immediately after my proposal and the proposal of the Hungarian Movement. And now it turns out that, as of October, a significant increase in gas is being planned. However, we also do not understand that if the government wants to help Hungarians, why, in the case of VAT content, it does not deviate from the practice that, during the Gyurcsány government or the Orbán government, VAT was outstanding worldwide in Hungary. So we are asking the government to bear the burden of people both for the system usage fee and for the VAT content. We do not see that the government has even taken these proposals. We also said that in order for Hungarians, Hungarian businesses and Hungarian people to have a smaller energy bill, we make proposals; they are not demagogic proposals, but we make concrete proposals on where income can be obtained. For example, I told you about the digital tax case. At that time, Prime Minister said that this can only be regulated at a global level. The Austrian example of the digital tax is next to us a country of similar size, a neighbouring country, a country with a similar historical history. If Austria introduced it, why does Hungary not introduce it? There are hundreds of billions at Facebook, Google and other digital multinational giant companies. So we are waiting for the government to follow up on these proposals as well. It seems that the government does not want to engage in dialogue with the opposition, and in particular with the Hungarian Movement. Then we proposed not only the digital tax, but also the consideration of property tax, because we would need proportionate public burdens in such a catastrophic, critical situation. Compared to this, we see that our proposal, which is an international proposal, so we did not come up with it, which would mean a strip of property tax for billionaires, the government does not hear our proposals, nor does it want to consult on this. If we look at the hundred richest people in Hungary, we see that almost everyone has something to do with politics, whether it's the Fidesz or the Balliberal side, and who didn't have one, like György Gattyán, now has one. So I think that if politics helped these billionaires, then these billionaires now have a dog duty to help Hungarian people. We have heard about the state investment that the government is shutting down, but we have not heard that the government wants to stop the support of the multinationals, because so far we have seen that, even in the Gyurcsány government, it has supported the multinationals with more money than left-wing governments, even though I think they should be given zero forints in the current situation; and we are expecting additional special taxes on multis. The Prime Minister also said a sentence that is worrying about this aspect, Prime Minister, that only private businesses that create jobs and investments will be supported by the government. I hope this does not mean Audi Hungaria Zrt. as a Hungarian job creation enterprise, we do not want to support global large companies. And then we have a lot of suggestions. I also suggested it, but the government doesn't want to consult us, for example, about the fact that after the head of the National Roma Municipality was taken in handcuffs, he wants to stop completely unnecessary Roma programs. 6,000 billion forints have been spent by governments so far on such unnecessary programmes, for example. So there would be a lot of money to help the Hungarian people, but somehow we haven't heard about it. And before I get the answer, either in the case of the system charge or the transmission fee, that the companies that carry out the transfer here are taking power from the market, let me add that we supported Paks II from the very first moment we supported nuclear power. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I'm glad that Gergely Christmas and the left noticed this, but before that they were against it. We would have expected the government to make Paks II work by 2023, the government's fault that this doesn't work. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-09-26-4	It is now up to Congressman Péter Ungár, as head of the LMP Group.
u2022-09-26-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to begin by saying repeatedly that we are vulnerable to Russia because of energy. He also said that most of the natural gas imports come from Russia. I would like to ask you with respect what you have done about this in more than ten years before the Ukrainian war. There may be many references to everyone, it can be said that a direction of European policy did not support less dependence on Russia, but this European policy, which often did not support it, was the Angela Merkel, whom Prime Minister thought to be the greatest leader in Europe, and so he called me in his earlier speeches. The fact is, although we could not have completely broken down from natural gas, this dependence could have been substantially reduced over the past period. You are currently banning the real use of wind energy. There is a rule that has been introduced, which means that a wind power plant cannot be established in Hungary. According to various experts, wind energy could participate in the energy mix up to 10-20 percent. Another advantage of wind energy is that it can accurately balance solar energy [[Intruder from Fidesz: No, it's not true! Moore in the Chamber. The president's ringing the bell.]] 'Cause when the sun doesn't shine, the wind blows better. That's what I've been told by a man who I wouldn't really call a dissident over the past few years. But with regard to solar energy, it is also very important that even though it was mentioned that solar energy [[Sic!]] We need to install it in different places, which we agree on, there is still a product charge on solar energy, solar panels, taxing solar panels, making it difficult for the public to use solar energy. About electronic modernisation, about network modernisation, which Prime Minister last spoke about seven years ago, and since then, no real money has been spent on this, even though it would have been possible. And what is very painful, I must say, is that you did not speak of residential insulation again, Prime Minister, you did not say how residential real estate, various condominiums, could be isolated, how it could be reduced as much as we are exposed to Russia and fossil energy. [[14.00]] Overall, the weather is still interesting in one aspect. They talk a lot about what will happen in the Russian war, so it will change, so the front will change, it will take a long time, it will take a little time. But let's just say, between you and me, that it was the political side of you who were hooting the day before the war, and you told me that the Americans and the Poles were wrong, that everyone was stupid, because there wouldn't be any war. Even so, there was a war. Then they also told me that there would be a lightning war and there would be no war that would be total and Kiev would be affected. The thing is, they were wrong about that. They were wrong, so then what conclusions they draw about the development of the front, I think we could collectively handle it more modestly. [[Dr. Zsolt Semjén: We never said that!]] I recommend Zsolt Bayer's publicity to the Deputy Prime Minister. [[Noise on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-09-26-6	I would ask my fellow members of the Government to listen quietly to the opposition speaker.
u2022-09-26-7	If you really think that you never said that, then it will be very difficult to continue the conversation, because then our relationship with reality will certainly differ from the point of view that what appears to be going on in News Television, what your party members, your State Secretarys say about the world, is not considered a fidesz position. But that's not the point. The question is that although it is possible to criticise sanctions policy after 2014, it did less when it did, but then what is the alternative. What can be done to stop this war? What can be done then? I think the question is important, and now we are going to let what you have said, because if we look at it for Hungarian national reasons, it is clear that Ukraine must remain in that respect, because if it does not, Hungary is next to the Russian Empire, which is bad for Hungary. [[Viktor Orbán: That's right! Dr. Zsolt Semjén: That's right! Dr. Zsolt Semyen applauds.]] That's what they said, all right. What, then, can be done to make this happen? If the sanctions are wrong, if everything the Morawiecki say is wrong, what the Lithuanians say is wrong, what the Commission says is wrong, what the United States says is right? But, Prime Minister, the ceasefire can be reached by those who have entered another country. Let us not say that the same responsibility for peace lies with the attacker and the attacker. He doesn't have the same responsibility. [[Dr. Zsolt Semjén: We didn't say that! Noise from the pro-government benches.]] If we keep going...
u2022-09-26-8	What if my fellow Members did not comment on the speaker? What about it? It'd be quieter, that's the thing. Here you go.
u2022-09-26-9	Back to that: it's a very interesting question, then, what can be done. We didn't hear the answer to that. If you say that peace is very important, let there be peace, but peace be made by the one who attacked you. In order for anyone who attacked to make peace, he must feel that he cannot continue what he is doing, because it will have some consequences. What effect can there be if this is not an economic consequence? This alternative offer is not available for you. I think it is still important on this issue how Hungary will react to the fact that it will be clearly left alone in the expanding world of Russia, especially from the region's point of view. I can see it now, but it looks like I'm reading too many right-wing media that they're back friends with the Polish government. This is a very nice thing, Polish-Hungarian friendship is really a very nice value. But if this speech is translated into Polish in Warsaw, and this will surely be done by your former friend, Tuskek, then those who are your closest allies will judge you in the exact opposite way. They're judging it differently. [[Viktor Orbán: That's right!]] it is judged in the Czech leadership and in the opposite way in the other management or most management of the region. My question is, why is that? Everyone's stupid from Vilnius to Sofia, or maybe they're in the same geopolitical space from Vilnius to Sofia, and so from Vilnius to Sofia with our historical past, with our thoughts, we think that if Russian tanks start, it's bad. Maybe that's why they think the same thing about regional governments from Vilnius to Sofia. You don't have to love Western Europe. You used to love the West, and you've been disappointed in them ever since. I grew up in the war in Iraq with the West lying, so I was never disappointed in them. They're hypocrites, there's a lot of bad things to say about them, but we can't have this debate here, we can't have it in the conversation, and that's why it's a better model than that model. While everything is treated relatively and everything is shattered with everything, such sentences, which would have been cliché up to 10 to 12 years ago, still have significance. So I just want to say that Prime Minister has very well criticized the sanctions policy, and I think he has said a lot of things that are wrong, but as one of Europe's strong men, say this about you in the right-wing media, what should have been done. Give me an alternative. Thank you very much. [[(Applause from the benches of LMP.]]
u2022-09-26-10	On behalf of Jobbik, Mr László György Lukács is next. Here you go.
u2022-09-26-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, Fellow Members! Allow me, and this may be the less to start with the part I agree with you on. Hungary's security, such as defence, i.e. external, internal security, energy security, is the most important thing for all of us. I can also say this as a conservative politician, and as a conservative, I can also say to you that peace is one of the most important things, and it is the message of peace that everyone in Europe and outside Europe must hold on to. Let me tell you what I think you're seeing wrong. My position is that Russia is at war, not the West. Russia was the one who started this war, his chance to end it, and the Russian side is to make peace. You have the wrong idea that the West doesn't play a primary role in this, although it has a role to play, but the Russians have to exercise persuasion against the Russians. You also talked about sanctions for a long time. It is worth saying that with one or two exceptions, and there were some of them, in which the Hungarian Government and its members expressed an opposite opinion, but, Prime Minister, you voted in favour of these sanctions, that is the case. His balance sheet says that seven out of seven, in some places, you're called the king of sanctions behind his back. I don't think he's a new boy in Brussels politics, because he's been there for 12 years, but it's hard to believe that you've been fooled there. Who believes you've been tricked into Brussels and you've been sold the message, the product that the sanctions will bring this war to an end? No one told me that. There was no analyst who would have said that a sanction would allow the war to be closed immediately. We all knew, we saw, and I think you have seen it very clearly: sanctions are such that they affect the party who is being sanctioned and, of course, in this case, also Europe, who bears the price of this sanction. But the final question seems to be that, if you don't think about the penalty, you can think about what, Prime Minister. Because we need to think in peace, but on the road to it, you have not given us an action plan, you have not given us a roadmap, and it is important to see how we can get the Russian party back to where it belongs, within Russian borders, and leave our neighbor's territorial integrity alone and give us the sovereignty that belongs to this country. I must add that we must also be concerned about the current processes, because a new state, a new national unity, is being formed in our neighbourhood as a result of the war. The basic sense and experience of the present Ukrainian people will be that in a war that they fought with Russia, who they could count on and who they could not count on. The Hungarian-speaking minority will be influenced for a hundred years by what they think about Hungarian internal politics, what they think about Hungarian foreign policy and how they stand with Hungarians. We had legitimate grievances against the Ukrainians, and this must also be said. The Ukrainian party has cheated Hungary several times and has acted against its promises. This must also be said, but in a war situation, when such a people's spirit is formed, we must choose wisely how we will live with our neighbours, because, as I said, identity choice is done there for a hundred years in advance. You have made predictions, Prime Minister. I'd be more careful if I were you with the predictions. After all, you said that the war was not a realistic risk, it was in February 2022. He also said, I believe, when he was at the Pope's, before May 9th, that the war would end on May 9th. You said that the Ukrainians will never win war with Western trainers, Western weapons against the Russians, we are still waiting for this prophecy, and you also said that Ukraine could lose up to a third of its territory. Careful with the predictions, Prime Minister, the things you said here might not work either. You also said the sanctions didn't work. It should be added that sanctions work against the Russians, and unfortunately, we too feel the impact of them. It would be a shame to say otherwise. [[14.10]] But you never tell me what the real data is in Russia, or what the data is measured there, or what you know about their economy. Their GDP will fall by 11 percent. In Europe, this decline and this increase are still 2.7 percent, so there is not a GDP downturn in Europe, but it is very spectacular for the Russians. Their exports and imports fell over 30 percent. In fact, it is safe to read out of the figures that 22 percent of the Russians have estimated inflation. They are very seriously affected by inflation and are very seriously affected by sanctions packages. And as for the results, we look at these things a little differently as to what happened in Hungary. You said that the people of Europe are angry. The fact is, Prime Minister, that the Hungarian people are also angry, and from the list of results, allow me to look at a little. The thing is, it's a recession. I'm not saying this. Your finance minister said that we are in recession and recession is approaching. Mihály Varga confirmed it recently at one of the conferences. There's 20 percent inflation, that's the price increase. Europe's record is 34 percent food price increase. The cost reduction was partially abolished. Forint 416 was a euro, which was the record so far. And to give you another record, 18-year-olds have a base rate. So, Prime Minister, be careful with the results. You know, I don't have much of a good thing. I don't even have a bad thing. What is helpful and can be helpful to the Hungarian people: it is really important to help families, but it is also important to help even the smallest businesses, for whom, now due to the emptying of main-field business lines, some cities are closing down. Maybe your favorite restaurant closes in the next few days, our favorite cafe, our favorite bakery. These businesses, who were not only self-employed as the smallest entrepreneurs, were having a hard time recovering from the Cata Code, so they are not only the smallest entrepreneurs, but also their families and even the people they employ are at risk and at least insecurity. Jobbik has already proposed a comprehensive VAT reduction in the summer, which would have meant in some way braking food prices. And it's not true that they can't check it, check it, just want it. We also suggested that the state should not profit from the tax on energy prices, let it go there, and that people should have less to pay at the end of the day. It is also clear that there are other issues in which the government needs to help. Allow me to bring here, for example, the question of Dunaújváros. The fate of an entire city depends on what happens to Dunaferr, as in the current situation, the city has put down a package of three proposals asking the government to help and no help is coming. We're talking about the biggest factory in the country. So if you're in factory rescue, then help a factory escape so that the families living there, the families in Dunaújváros and the neighborhoods can be saved on the basis of the three points proposed by the Dunaújváros City Administration. In these, believe me, everyone will support you regardless of political color. And in conclusion, however, allow it, referring back to what is the correct interpretational context, the fact is that when the official prices were introduced, when you introduced a price cap, there was no war; think about the war as a reason for everything. At the beginning of inflation, there was no war anywhere. There was also no war at the time of business wrists, there is no embargo on natural gas, the sanctions for oil and coal will apply from 1 January. That is the case, Prime Minister, and this must be the end of it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] You voted for all the sanctions, you need to find another excuse. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-09-26-12	Szabó Timea is next. I give you the floor.
u2022-09-26-13	Mr. Prime Minister, We are used to you not telling the truth in the majority of cases, but unfortunately today was no different. But let's get started. Before I get to the point, let me respond to one or two of your specific sentences. You say that Hungary is most affected by war because we are neighbouring Ukraine. However, I would remind Prime Minister that Romania, Slovakia and Poland are also neighbouring Ukraine, and yet there is not so much inflation. So you didn't tell the truth about that either. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I've got the KSH inflation table right in front of me, so I was prepared on purpose so they wouldn't tell me that I'm making this up. Here is Hungary, I'd like to show you. [[He's showing me a document. Dr. Imre Vejkey: Forbidden illustration!]] Here is Hungary, I would like to show you, and here is the EU average. Only the Baltic States have higher inflation than we do. So you weren't telling the truth about that again. As has already been said here, he did not speak the truth about sanctions, because there was no gun held to the heads of the Fidesz and KDNP MEPs when they voted in favour of sanctions against Russia in the European Parliament on 7 April. All the Fidesz-KDNP Members present voted in favour of these sanctions, just as you did not veto this in the Council, even though you could have. So, so much for who's who, what's forced on him. But let's face it now, if you've already missed it. We are facing the biggest crisis in the last 30 years, but it is not willing to take any responsibility for this. It was also said that these inflation figures did not start now, they did not start during the war, but much earlier. You knew there would be a huge crisis, but you campaigned during the parliamentary elections with three promises: you promised that there would be no tax increase, you promised that there would be no cuts, and you promised that there would be no cuts. These are the three things you promised me. All three of them turned out to be lies today. But let's look at it in a row. There won't be a tax increase, you promised. Then let's say we ask the 450 thousand taxpayers whose taxes you brutally raised, so that again, while we are discussing the rule of law mechanism, you've interrupted the negotiation of this in half a day. If we look at an average click, say, 280,000 forints a month, your tax has increased from 20 percent to 38 percent. Well, there wasn't that much tax increase in Hungary. You also mentioned the extra-profit tax, which, in principle, should have been undertaken by, say, the trade chains or the banks. I mean, let's just say we let your oligarchs, the construction industry, by no means be subjected to this, but you knew precisely that these taxes would be passed on to the population. So here again, the burden of the population has increased, its tax burden, so you lied about it. His second lie was that there would be no restrictions. On June 13, Judit Varga, your minister at the National Council of Judges, said the following, and I quote: "There are very large cuts in the budget. It could be stopped here, because your minister said so, but let's see what restrictions there are: the price of bread has increased by 100 percent in the last year, the price of butter and margarine has increased by 100 percent, the price of potatoes has increased by 100 percent, the price of potatoes has now increased by 700 percent, i.e. the gas price has increased by seven times, the electricity price has doubled. Then where is there no austerity here, Prime Minister? ! Are there such price increases, 100 percent price increases, when you know how much pensions have increased? Nine percent. Do you know how much an average pension is? Average wages have increased by 16 percent, while the gas bill is going to be seven times higher. Do you know how much an average pension is today according to KSH? 164 thousand forints. And you know what a seven-time gas price means? That the person who had 20,000 forints will now have a gas bill of 140,000 forints. Prime Minister, there are no such restrictions. After ten years of employment, a teacher brings home a net of HUF 230,000, a health worker takes thirty years, so after a worked life, he brings home a net wage of HUF 227 thousand, and the firefighters are told to be heated by the adrenaline. Interestingly, you're not on adrenaline because your salary could be raised to double to HUF 3 million in the summer. But today, Mrs. Judit Varga found out that in addition to her 2.5 million salary, she will receive an additional 1.5 million for the Board of Governors of the University of Miskolc, for example, she earns HUF 4 million. Once again, 160,000 forints is an average pension. So you lied about it, too, and you've introduced brutal restrictions. And let's look at the third one. You think there's still a reduction in the rent. That's a bad joke, isn't it? We know exactly how they're going to rise, but in a stomach-stricken way, you can even profit from the system charges. The Titasz, owned by MVM, but by Lőrinc Mészáros, will also pay extra profit to the public, to the detriment of Hungarian families, because they refuse to reduce the system usage fee. In 2017 the electricity price and system usage fee were roughly the same, in 2022 the electricity price was 5 forints out of 30 forints, and the system usage fee was 25 forints. It's five times the system charge, so let's cut this down. And firewood, Mr. Prime Minister, is not. Today's news is that there is a waiting list not only in health care, but also in firewood. Prime Minister, the thing is, you lied today, and you lied in the campaign, and you lied every day since the election. [[14.20]] But look at the so - called declining West, where people are supposedly not helping people. In Slovenia there is a solidarity bonus of 60 thousand forints; in the Czech Republic, the state took over the gas tax one at a time, thereby reducing the public's burden by 35 percent; in Austria, it was a 130 thousand forints premium, in the Netherlands it was 320 thousand forints. Everyone helps but you, Prime Minister, while thanks to the Orbán-Sijjártó-Putin pact, we managed to buy gas from Russia 8 percent more expensive in June than the Dutch stock exchange price. This is also thanks to the age-old genius Péter Szijjártó. In summary, you lied because there are tax increases, restrictions, and there is a fee increase. And he didn't help the Hungarian people in today's speech either, he didn't announce any support. The Dialogue demands that you be responsible and, as a government capable of making decisions on its own, implement the following immediately. Reduce the system usage fee to make it easier for families. Immediately give each family a 120,000 forint certificate so that they can survive the winter. Start the energy-efficient renovation of the homes, the window changes, and help to make a real reduction in the costs. Finally, adult education should also be introduced in order to avoid unemployment, where capacity shortages from renewable energies can be shifted. Prime Minister, instead of lying [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] At last, help the people! [[Applause in the benches of Dialogue, LMP, MSZP and DK.]]
u2022-09-26-14	I now give the floor to Mr Gurmai Zita, a member of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2022-09-26-15	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Prime Minister! I listened with interest to your assessment of the situation, although in your speech the real situation and evaluation did not really meet. The real situation is that Hungary is on the verge of an unprecedented livelihood disaster. Here's the deal: brutal increases, double-digit inflation, weak forints, a vulnerable economy, and a fragmented society. So the thing is, pensions, salaries, social benefits at the store checkout just melt away. Prime Minister, you don't feel it from your $4 million salary of $800,000, but the fact is that in a year, if I'm just thinking about bread, the price has risen by 64 percent. The price of milk and eggs has increased in the same way, and I could tell you about the price increases you guys are watching. I know, I know, they say it's war and war inflation. But it's a lousy, fideous trick that they're gonna put it all on. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: War? Deterioration in the benches of the ruling parties.]] The brutal increases started a long time ago, my fellow Members I know that this is a shit case. [[Sic!]] Listen to it like it's your buddy Putin's war. You've been chasing after the fuel price and the food price cap since the war was gone. [[Constant noise and interruptions in the pro-government benches.]] Because it was already brutally expensive because of your misguided economic policy. That's why it's a lie that you're going to blame everything on war and sanctions. For these brutal increases, Prime Minister, the Fidesz government is to blame. Instead of murmuring, there's a little stunt of it right now. I'm gonna tell you what happened. It was the Fidesz government who weakened the forint for 12 years and consciously. You made very good money at the weakening forint, such as the Hungarian National Bank. This is why Hungarian people's money in shops is now less valuable. The Fidesz government has also built the rule of law, which is why the country is now losing 3000 billion forints of EU money. The Fidesz government has done nothing about energy efficiency, Prime Minister, which is why people have to heat much more now, and so, because of you, they pay much more. Prime Minister, I respectfully ask you, even two and a half months ago, you said that you would protect the reduction of the gas, then you raised the price of the gas seven times, doubled the price of electricity, so that the average consumption you calculated is not virtually true. More than half of the four million Hungarian households will pay brutally high rent. This is not to protect the reduction of the overhead, but, on the contrary, to abolish the reduction of the rent. This is a brutal increase in household energy prices that has never been seen in Hungary. Prime Minister, we do not need a price increase, but we need a resistop, the measures that the MSZP is calling for. Because tell me why, above the so-called average consumption, the price of residential electricity was doubled to HUF 70, while the Paks Nuclear Power Plant has been producing electricity for HUF 12 again for a long time. And it can still function profitable, so I think it's a concrete fact. And Paks knows that, Prime Minister, he's generating a lot more power than residential use. That's a fact. Paks power generation is war and inflation, and we can agree on that, Prime Minister, especially if you listen to me... that's a fact. Then how the hell did the Paks power generated for 12 forints turn into 70 forints electricity for Hungarian families? ! Explain, my dear Prime Minister, when you get the chance to talk about why you profit from Paks electricity at the expense of the Hungarian people. And speaking of profiteering: in many countries of Europe, taxes on residential energy have been reduced, i.e. VAT. In Spain, 5 percent is the tax on residential energy and 7 percent is the tax on residential energy in Germany. On the other hand, your government has added 27 percent tax to the already expensive electricity and gas. What an inhumane, fidesz approach is that Hungarian families must pay such high taxes on their bills! Now, that's what you're saying, so far and no longer. That's why we say we need a resistop. As part of the Resisttop, MSZP has initiated the reduction of the VAT on Hungarian families' bills from 27 percent to 5 percent, if we agree now, it's good for me. It's not impossible to do this, it can be done, Prime Minister. Be brave. For example, the tax on district heating was reduced to 5% by the MSZP government. You could do the same with a single amendment to a regulation. Because if the MSZP could do it, maybe the Fidesz government could do it. Make it 5 percent tax on household electricity, gas, tank and bottled LPG, firewood, briquettes and coke! This tax reduction for a taxpayer [[Noise in the benches of the governing parties.]] pay attention so that we can count together, it can save up to a hundred thousand forints. If the MSZP could do this, other countries could do it, then why can't you, Prime Minister? I'll summarize my questions. Explain why the 12 HUF Paks electricity is given for 70 HUF, and why the 27 per cent tax on residential energy sources is not reduced to 5 per cent, i.e. 5 per cent. Be kind and answer these questions specifically. Answer me and answer the Hungarian people, because they are looking forward to this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of MSZP.]]
u2022-09-26-16	I now give the floor to the head of the Group of Momentum, Mr Ferenc Gelencsér.
u2022-09-26-17	Mr. Speaker, Thank you for the floor. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I see that Prime Minister has been so involved in the alternative reality he created himself, that he has also forgotten that you voted in favour of sanctions, both in the European Council and in the European Parliament. In the spring, you went to Brussels and voted in favour of all the sanctions the Germans have asked of you, as the pro-government MEPs have done. Now he's talking about sanctions not working, that Russia is invincible. So you're actually protesting your own decisions? [[Nacsa Lawrence: He didn't say!]] I ask you not to look down on the Hungarian people! Decide whether to support or not to support sanctions. We will help you with this matter and your decision. The sanctions are working. The forces of Russia you hold high have recently been expelled from many previously occupied Ukrainian cities. The sanctions work, and there will only be peace if Ukraine wins its war against war criminals. [[John Lazarus intervenes.]] [[14.30]] Mr. Prime Minister, you have just found that the government protects the reduction of the rent and thus protects the families. You repeat the alternative reality so much that you slowly believe it. However, even though the Hungarian public is becoming more and more dominated, even though their propaganda is perfected, reality cannot be masked for long. Soon the reality will arrive in the form of bills to hundreds of thousands of Hungarian households. You know that tens of thousands of families will be unable to pay for the heating of their homes, they will not have enough public media or propaganda from the megaphone. These people will forever remember that their own government ignores their suffering, crisis and reality. You're beating the middle class. No government can give up helping the middle class. We all know that this country is on their shoulders. If the skilled workers, the teachers, the office workers, the young family members are pushed into poverty by you, and the chances of their raising their children with honest work, decent training, to reach them one by one, then this country will collapse, you said, Prime Minister, once upon a time. And how true it is now! Prime Minister, you have just described what is responsible for the crisis. I would like to inform Prime Minister that he has been ruling by two thirds for 12 years. What's he steering? He's ruling! With all due respect, I ask you not to look down on the Hungarian people and not to make false claims. The responsibility for poor economic indicators and poor foreign policy results lies solely with you and your government. Even though they are trying to start a war on inflation, the price increase at European Union level is uniquely high in Hungary long before the war. It was clear that there could be an economic collapse, yet you distributed half the state register, because maintaining their power was more important than keeping Hungary's economy and the standard of living of Hungarians. The facts cannot be denied for a long time, and it is feared that the economic policies of the past 12 years will collapse on every Hungarian family. He also talked about the need to negotiate peace with the Russian government, the war criminal. If he had lived in 1956, I think he would have suggested to the Hungarian freedom fighters to put down their weapons, not provoke the Russian bear, and rather negotiate peace. It is clear to all but you: peace will be if the Ukrainians win and the Russians are driven home. This is also in Hungary's interest. He also mentioned that they were negotiating for the return of EU funds. Well, they could have negotiated a little better. If, let us say, they succeed, we will be able to congratulate you on the last of the 27 Member States in the European Union. Now, they're trying to take pretend measures, and that's what the Poles have been trying to do. Well, we've seen how it doesn't work. Other countries could use this money to prepare for the coming difficult winter. Hungary will have no other chance. It's more than a sin, it's a mistake. [[Applause from the lines of DK, MSZP, Momentum, Dialogue and LMP.]]
u2022-09-26-18	I am listening with empathy to the behaviour of my fellow Members, believe me that it is not easy for me, but I am asking you to continue to remain calm, because there is still a speaker. Next up is István Simicskó, head of the KDNP faction.
u2022-09-26-19	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank Prime Minister for his information on behalf of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party. The picture you've outlined is perfectly clear and clear. In such a war situation, we can approach the problem from global to local or from local to global. [[László Varju: So, where do we go?]] Allow me to point out that, a few years ago, we saw processes and even read books from Henry Kissinger in his book The World Order that threaten the world in unprecedented chaos. One thing is certain that the world is in transition, we can also say that a new world order is beginning to develop, and one of the signs, stations, and sad stations of this is another sister war, and also in our neighbourhood. Herodotus was the Greek historian who was the great historian of Greek-Persian wars, before Christ in the fifth century, and he himself left behind that history was not perceived as progress, but rather as a cycle. Well, well, it could be that, and the danger of that is coming back, there's another sister war going on here, and the South Slav war wasn't enough. As a result, it is safe to say that the leaders of the European Union, the bureaucrats in Brussels, have a responsibility in this situation. Not only the sanctions policy, the failed sanctions policy, which is a complete failure, since the European Union is povertying and creating families, nations and economies in crisis, let me also say that the European Union's security policy is a failure, at least in that it has not been able to prevent another conflict in the military sense of Europe, on the European continent. Here we have heard a statement from some of our younger group leaders that anyone who attacks the country can bring peace. This is not necessarily the case, and even if someone knows history a little, it is safe to say that this is not necessarily the case, because, let's say, in World War II, neither did the one who started the war, so Hitler won, thank God, or even World War I, who started the war. So it is not logical and factual that... [[A statement from the opposition.]] Another question is how we played this role and how we see the end of World War I. So it is safe to say that Brussels' elite, Brussels bureaucrats, cannot handle a crisis. For what reason this is, we can see this: basically I think there are issues of values, spirituality, and economic and security policy implications, so they cannot make an effective and applicable decision to prevent, for example, conflicts of this type. Here, too, was a road to the start of this sad, repeated war, not immediately and out of nowhere, but should have followed the terms of the Minsk agreement and many other things and not provoked Russia in such a situation. It's safe to say. And, of course, Russia obviously attacked Ukraine, and we know and see this, and this is sad and regrettable, but Hungary has always been in favour of peace, and the Hungarian government has always stressed this. The only possible solution to the situation can be mentioned only in this: there is a need to enforce peace. In addition, Hungary has been extremely correct in helping those fleeing the war from Ukraine, and the Hungarian government has been able to help thousands, hundreds of thousands and hundreds of thousands of people and one and a half million people. I think it is very important to recall the eternal idea of Kolping, who said nothing but to the good Lord to recognize the troubles, problems, dangers of his own age, and to give him the strength to remedy it. And what I see is that the Hungarian government has recognised all threats in the past 12 years in time, has been able to respond and remedy them effectively, and has always been guided by one aspect: the representation and enforcement of Hungarian interests, and the protection of Hungarian families. So I think it's good to know that. Brussels is responsible for the current situation, which is what I wrote down for myself here. [[Delight and applause in the ranks of DK, MSZP, LMP, Dialogue and Momentum.]] Yes, I am clearly glad that the drastic increase in energy prices has been so successful in my sentence that the sanctions have triggered it. It's a misguided sanction policy. Returning to one sentence: Russia has over 17 million square kilometers, the largest country on Earth, one of the strongest armies [[Development in the ranks of DK, MSZP, LMP, Dialogue and Momentum.]] one of the largest fossil energy reserves, nuclear power. European Union 4.2 million square kilometres with 27 Member States [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] And we are the ones who impose sanctions against Russia on us, on our own account, for our own loss. It wasn't that long ago that vacation ended for our children. Allow me to tell you a few more thoughts about the last three letters, the announcement. Over the past decades, we have seen the challenge of globalisation to preserve local national and local identities, a challenge for all nations. Migration, which has posed extraordinary risks and threats since 2015, has been seen in many countries of Europe, and here is the sanction, which is virtually self-dangerous, self-dangerous Europe, a complete failure and complete failure. [[14.40]] We welcomed the national consultation in Prime Minister's speech. We consider the policy that the Hungarian Government has taken so far to be very important, that it has asked the Hungarian citizens, on important issues, what their opinion is, what their position is, on twelve occasions, on national strategic issues. Many, many millions of people voted in this way. It is important that we know how the Hungarian people take their stand against the sanctions policy in this situation as well. For us Christian democrats, perhaps even more important are the large national strategy goals set by the Hungarian government from 2010 onwards, such as broadening and expanding family support, and in all budgets we see, even at such a difficult time, that the Hungarian government is paying attention to the support of families and to alleviating the problems of families. This is certainly exemplary by protecting them against high energy prices by cutting overhead costs, price stops and creating a new job protection action plan, as the Prime Minister said. We support this to a great extent, we welcome it, we wish you good luck with that. The fact that the Hungarian government has managed all crises successfully since 2010 is a sufficient guarantee and sufficient experience to lead Hungary out of the current crisis, and we hope that many European Union countries will follow such measures and this policy that the Hungarian government is taking. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-09-26-20	I now give the floor to Matthew Kocsis, head of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-09-26-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, A lot of interesting things have been said, but before we answer them, I would like to help you with some very noble questions about the Hungarian national interest. Therefore, if you can respond by nodding your head vertically or horizontally. Is it true that when the war broke out, energy prices weren't as high as they were today? Right. Is it true that, after the adoption of the sanctions package in June, energy prices in Europe doubled in one month and then tripled in one month? Right. In six months, due to the increase in energy prices, Russia has gained revenue of EUR 158 billion. Is that true? I would like to say that this is a larger amount than the total export revenue of Russia in 2021. In fact, I also say as a help that more than 60% of this amount has been paid by the European Union, and we can even say that with these failed sanctions, the European Community is financing Russia's war. Is that statement true? Is it true that this is not what Brussels promised when it spoke of sanctions? Recall, Brussels spoke about the fact that sanctions will help prevent, eliminate war and have no negative economic impact on Europe. Is it true that energy sanctions have an impact on production costs, cereal prices, food prices, fertilizer prices, as we heard in the Prime Minister's introduction and a long list, and this also raises inflation? Right. Is it true that despite all this, your Prime Minister's candidate and their MEPs have repeatedly lived up to the sanctions? Right. We have also heard it from Péter Márki-Zay and their MEPs. In fact, it's their mayor when he's with the Shadow Klick. [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] He had a telephone conversation, and he himself expressed joy over how good sanctions are and how much they help. But let's talk about the rent. Is it true that the government gives an average of HUF 180,000 to Hungarian families by keeping the Hungarian household's allowance down to the average consumption? [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] Right. Every month. Not 120, which you demand, but 180. Is it true that you guys used to call the rent reduction stupid and stupid? Just as the former Prime Minister did on one of the commercial television programmes. Right. According to their real faces, the market price would have been introduced long ago, as they said in the campaign. But let's keep going. Is it true that we can still hold the gas stop because the Hungarian government fought it out in the summer so that oil sanctions would not apply to us? Right. In fact, I would also like to ask you that you are right to say that the Hungarian government will hold the pricestops only until the elections. Yeah, that's what you said. There are now, and the Hungarian government has even just extended the pricestops. Of course, it is also true that you are trying to dissuade the Hungarians again as a result of the occasional political gain. Since it's not the first time we've been through crisis disputes together, I can safely say that you are the evil tax collectors of this crisis. [[Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] They did the same thing during the Covid outbreak. They used exactly the same method, disinformation and misinformation, and did not realize that at the very end, in exchange for their occasional political gain, which they could not even sweep, Hungarians were put at risk. One word, like a hundred, that's all true. There is only one question left: why do you not want to give up this anti-Hungary policy, why are you not politicalising for the good of the country? At least make sure that at the threshold of the European Union agreement you have mentioned, they make the gesture if they can no longer help, that they remain silent. The country must receive the money it is entitled to, which could also finance healthcare workers, teachers and the Hungarian economy in this difficult European environment. The whole European Union is already in a difficult position because of the misguided sanctions, but you always meet the demand in Brussels, and we are satisfied with the interests of Hungary, and if I look at it well, it will remain that way. Before the reactions, allow a little detour. There are two kinds of people in your ranks: one who is already a member of the shadow government, the other who would like to be. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intercoms from the opposition benches.]] First of all, I would like to congratulate you on the formation of the third Gyurcsány government. [[Defiance.]] It's a shadow, but you've come to it. Congratulations, Mr. President, but may I remind you that there was once a time when you pretended to govern. It's just like that now, but they didn't do anything, and they won't do it now. Of course, that wasn't true. I wish they hadn't done anything. We remember everything: the withdrawal of wages, the withdrawal of pensions, the tax increase, the debt increase, the bleeding out of municipalities and the elimination of family subsidies. Let's hope the shadow stays that way. Mr László Lukács, I would like to say to you that you attribute to the Prime Minister quotes you did not say. Péter Ungár at least reads the more demanding press, you read the Snowshoes, I see. There were no sentences like that, Congressman. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] I can tell you well that at least it's not Peter James. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I would like to say to my fellow Member, Mr Szabó, that what our MEPs voted for there were no energy sanctions, so do not say that. The decision against Russia was adopted by our MEPs, in which there was reference to sanctions [[Szabó Timea keeps interrupting.]] But not about sanctions, energy sanctions. For you, since you do not understand many things about the functioning of Parliament, this may also be confusing. So you take one thing from me, the fact is that there are eleven thousand sanctions against Russia, can you tell me how many packages have been adopted and how have you voted? Or did you just use the political opportunity to slip two things together? Madam Congresswoman, the debate is coming between us, first of all, because it does not listen to us, but yells at us, second of all: when Hungary and the other EU Member States were promised by Brussels, it was not that they would destroy the economy, but that the sanctions would end the war. In closing, I would like to say to you that the Hungarian government gives households a budget of HUF 120,000 each month, not HUF 180,000. And allow me one more thing that has not yet been said, but I would bring it to the walls of this House. Péter Márki-Zay's candidate for Prime Minister confessing that they received foreign campaign support while it was against the law. After you called yourself a united opposition, you had joint candidates, a joint campaign, and therefore you have a shared responsibility. Many billion forints for foreign, crude, domestic intervention. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Tell me one thing: what did you promise in return? [[A big round of applause in the ranks of government couples.]] [[14.50]]
u2022-09-26-22	If there is no mistake in pressing the buttons, Ferenc Gyurcsány wishes to comment on the debate he did not attend. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Here you go.
u2022-09-26-23	Over the mass graves of tortured and then killed children, family fathers and family mothers, the Hungarian Prime Minister says that the surviving are better for peace. He says we shouldn't punish the killer. [[Dr. István Simicskó: You weren't even in there!]] You're protecting the leaders of the state accused of war crimes against me. You're the only one in Europe to officially meet and shake hands with the killers. That's disgusting. The Hungarian Prime Minister recommends the honour of his nation for Putin's power. There's a rag man. [[A statement from the Fidesz: We know that!]] There are even rags, and there is the ragdest man. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties. Gergely Gulyás and Lőrinc Nacsa point towards Ferenc Gyurcsány.]] Today's leaders of Hungary are not dishonest. New times, morals of war. Our unethical government doesn't seem to understand. The world is with the people of Ukraine, and you're with Putin. Therefore, regardless of the actual outcome of the war, you will all end up in the rags' camp. There will be a footnote in the textbook of world history: ragged people, colon, list, and your name will be there after the colon. I don't know what Putin's doing to your man, but what the Prime Minister is doing is not only immoral, it's also completely unreasonable. I think they're holding the boy. Maybe someday we'll find out what it's about. If it's up to us, we will. While the Prime Minister salutes Putin, he kneels to Brussels, begging for money. If there's no money in Brussels, the country will collapse. The brave, sovereign street fighter now surrenders to Brussels with about a dozen and a half laws. Freedom fight's over. Humility, compliance. The Hungarian currency reserves are slowly not sufficient to cover three months of imports. You know what that means, don't you? It means that when we reach this level, Hungary is technically bankrupt. That's what we're getting close to. [[Interview from KDNP lines: Are you talking? Looks familiar.]] You took a decade from us for nothing. Rag men and rag government. The Prime Minister asks that the electorate give an opinion on the European sanctions against Russia. Why? You personally supported these sanctions by saying and handwriting your mouth. That's the thing. Are you asking your parishioners to turn against you? That's absurd. In fact, he thinks we're poor bastards. That's the thing. Your turn is to tell the electorate to answer the Prime Minister. We have a pitiful government and a head of government. Big mouth, little... [[He's taking a short break.]] talent. We've seen this before, it's gonna end sooner or later. That's what I can tell you. [[Applause in DK's ranks. Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-09-26-24	The resolution was received when we read the literary note, so we did not need the debate to listen to it. If someone had thought about why, in the spirit of house rules, I didn't intervene in the first minute, because I didn't sit up for the provocation, so I apologize to the fellow Members. [[Bence of Turdai: You are a hero, Laszlo!]] I now give the floor to Prime Minister for rejoinder.
u2022-09-26-25	Mr President, Thank you very much for giving me the floor and for answering the questions and comments of those speaking on behalf of the factions. I listened carefully to all of you, and I see that Momentum, Dialogue, MSZP, Jobbik and DK [[Interview from the ranks of our country: The same!]] Perhaps it is right to call this the Hungarian left on the basis of the comments that he is clearly on the side of the war. [[Uproaring from some of the benches of opposition parties.]] Momentum, Dialogue, MSZP, Jobbik and DK, the Hungarian Left, are not only on the side of war [[Agnes Kunhalmi: We reject this!]] It is also on the side of sanctions. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: We refuse! You voted for him!]] This is a mistake, because war and sanctions are bad, they are bad for Hungarians. I would ask you to review your position. As regards the opinion of the leader of our country's faction, I would like to inform him that the system of sanctions is that sanctions are voted every six months. So there are sanctions not only once and for all, but every six months we have to decide on the extension of sanctions, so the consultation, as opposed to your assumption, is not premature, because we are facing new and new extensions. In the matter of voting sanctions, I would like to draw your attention to the following points. Hungary has not voted in favour of oil sanctions. More specifically, it has fought against Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic, i.e. the countries to which oil comes only by pipeline. At the request of our Polish friends, I did not choose to veto the sanction, but to achieve the Czech, Hungarian and Slovak exception, because the Poles asked that, although the interests of Hungary are contrary to the oil guarantee, we should not veto it, with the exception that is due to us. This is 8 percent of the three countries, by the way, coming from Russia, and the Polish position was that a 92 percent sanction is still better than a zero sanction for a Hungarian sanction. I think that's clear. So that's why we didn't vote for the oil sanctions. Sanctions for nuclear products are not allowed on the agenda. They won't be on the agenda because we won't vote for them. The reason why gas sanctions are not on the agenda is because Hungary has announced that it will not vote. That's how it is. Ladies and Gentlemen, The vote on the other sanctions, whether they are reasonable or not, would mean that Hungary alone will not vote on sanctions that are not vital to us. In other words, we are breaking up the European unity. Therefore, I believe that there must be a balance between European unity and the protection of the most important interests in Hungary. This is the responsible policy. We'll continue with that. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The system usage fee has been raised by several people. I would like to tell you that a significant part of it exists because we need to lead renewable energy sources to the system. If we were to build less renewable energy and support it, we would have a lower system charge. But I'm not suggesting that to you. I propose that we continue to support green energy, support solar energy, and pay the resulting system usage fee at the price. Similarly, I must say that the VAT reduction is not a reasonable proposal. Today, we're putting the proceeds from high VAT into the Redemption Fund. If we didn't collect these VAT revenues, the Rezsi reducing fund would be smaller, and we wouldn't be able to pay every Hungarian household HUF 181 thousand up to the average consumption. In addition, we have seen from the VAT cuts over the last 30 years that this is actually not in the form of a price reduction for people, but in the form of a cost reduction for companies and traders. You've been on the government a few times, you've been struggling with this problem. [[15.00]] Ladies and Gentlemen, And what I can tell you about the property tax is that we don't support that. I would like to remind you that all property taxes are based on the creation of a complete register of assets, the state registration of all Hungarian assets. I suggest you think about this. In the case of taxes on Hungarians and non-Hungarians, I can say that the extra-profit tax, with which we fund the Rezsi reduction Fund, is also allocated to banks, because there are foreigners there, there are foreign companies for telecommunications companies and for commercial networks where there are also a large number of foreigners. I cannot support the proposal of the Member and the Group leader to stop programmes to support the Roma. I think that programmes to support Roma catch-up are necessary, so the programme to fund the three hundred poorest villages, the crisis here, the crisis there, we will continue and we will do everything we can to enable the Hungarian Roma community to continue on the path of middle-classization. Congressman Péter Ungár pointed to my chest to tell you what we have done in the last 12 years to reduce the energy flow of Russia. Of course, youth excuses a certain degree of ignorance. Therefore, I would like to inform my fellow Member Ungár that in 2010, after winning the election, the first thing we did was that we refused to give back the 25 percent MOL shares sold by the Gyurcsány government to the Russians, but we recovered them to Hungary. That's a first. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Please also note in your next comment that in 2010 Hungary was connected to the world by two gas interconnectors, and today it is six. And please also note that after 2010, Hungary bought back gas reservoirs so that where we store gas today, it would be in the hands of the state and it would be in the interest of the national economy. I hope you appreciate that. As far as wind energy is concerned, there are also debates on wind energy within the government. For now, we are not convinced that it is necessary to restart wind energy production. We welcome the Hungarian Parliament to discuss this issue and to give its opinion to the Hungarian government. Not only for him, but for him, unfortunately, there are serious arguments against him. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that when you put the government's performance on the balance of renewable energies, you should not forget that there are unprecedented solar power plant developments in Hungary. More than 3,000 gigawatts are already in operation, and more than 5,000 megawatts of demands are in place, which we hope will be built by entrepreneurs. I understand that when our fellow Member Ungar speaks to the right, he also lists the well-known publicists on the right. We are your admirers, but I think you overestimate your role in shaping the position of the right. So if you want to discuss the facts with us, we are at your disposal, but most of all, consider what you can hear from us here in Parliament's benches. Finally, the question of what to do, I can tell you that we need to coordinate our position with the United States and work towards a Russian-American negotiation as soon as possible for the immediate ceasefire and peace. If anyone thinks and I see many of you, the last President of DK, who spoke, is in this illusion that this conflict will be concluded between the Ukrainians and the Russians, then you do not know international politics. This war can only be concluded by a Russian-American trial, which Europe must strive to have a voice in the peace talks. So an immediate ceasefire and peace talks; this is the Hungarian proposal. I do not propose the approach that my fellow Member Ungár here proposes to this House that if Hungary is left alone in an international debate with his opinion, then we interpret or interpret it so that everyone else is stupid. I would like to inform my fellow Member Ungár that the question of who is right in international diplomatic and foreign policy debates is not the question of who is right in this childish approach, but the debate is about who has an interest and how to reconcile them. I thank the Member for his honourable remarks. Thank you very much for your contribution to the Jobbik faction leader. I am not surprised that President Gyöngyösi is not here today, because a referendum is held in Donetsk. [[Defiance.]] [[Defiance.]] and when a referendum is held in Russia on disconnected areas like in Crimea, then he is there (Fairness.) To oversee the elections. That was the case with Crimea. I'm sure he's there right now. We wish him good luck. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] If Prime Minister Gyurcsány has already mentioned who the rag man is, then he may also be able to turn to Jobbik's current president in this regard if we link the rag manship with what Russian policy is being pursued. Dear colleague Luke, I'm not making predictions against what you're assuming. I think that we should take seriously the uncertainty of the situation, keep calm, be moderate and consistently represent Hungary's interests in the negotiations on sanctions. We are dealing with the issue of Dunaújváros. We have consulted with the elected Member of Parliament of Dunaújváros, and I hope that in the days we can give some help to him and through him also to the Iron Works. I should just say that we have not increased, but reduced, the amount of the payment and tax of the kata as a matter of fact, of Mrs Timea Szabó's contribution, which is not in a very friendly mood. There has not been a tax increase for the cadavers, Madam honourable Member, but a tax reduction. When a tax is less than it used to be, it's called a tax reduction, not a tax increase, as you assume. [[Noise, interruptions.]] As regards wages, I would like to remind you that, at the time of your leader, Prime Minister Gyurcsány, during his government, the average wage was lower than the minimum wage at the time of our government. The proposals that you and others have made, how and how much money should be used to support families, I cannot accept because every proposal was less than the 181 thousand forints that we are giving to all Hungarian families today. Your proposal would actually take you away from people, so we cannot accept these proposals, but we stand by our own proposal. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I also listened patiently to Congresswoman Zita Gurmai. I think that his words about disintegrating society are exaggerating, or may be based on the mistake of confusing the country with the Hungarian Socialist Party. [[Defiance and applause on the pro-government side.]] In Hungary, benefits and wages did not fall to 1 percent. It's true, there's one thing we've reduced to 1 percent, and it's my own responsibility, and that's the support of the MSZP, but we don't mind that. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] My fellow Member, Mr Gelencsér, said that we had distributed the money. What are we talking about? We are talking about the fact that, on 1 January, Hungarian pensioners received the 13th month pension that was taken from pensioners by the subsequent government of MSZP during or after the Prime Ministership of Ferenc Gyurcsány. This is not a division, my honourable fellow Member. We gave you back something your allies took away from the pensioners. Therefore, from January to 13th month's pension is paid to pensioners [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And we intend to keep it that way. When you say we distributed the money, we didn't distribute it, but we gave young people under the age of 25 a sja-free license in order to start their lives and make their wages better in the first years. I thought the Momentum was on the side of the young, but I see that the support you gave them is classified as distribution. We did not distribute the money, but increased the minimum wage to HUF 200,000 on 1 January. I'm only telling you in parentheses that if we hadn't done all this, how would the Hungarian families withstand this energy crisis? I suggest that they be modest, but sometimes they can also express their appreciation for the government's foresight. [[15.10]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Finally, my fellow Member, Gelencsér, said that the Russians should not be negotiated. I will give this opinion to President Macron and Chancellor Scholz, who will discuss it regularly with the Russians. [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties. László Szászfalvi to Ferenc Gelencsér: That's what you know!]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I join in what Mr Máté Kocsis said. I also think that it is unprecedented in the history of Hungarian democracy that the campaign of the entire Hungarian left is paid from abroad, and it is admitted to be from the United States. No one's denying that anymore. To accept foreign support for the election campaign, honourable left-wingers, it's illegal. You know that. On the other hand, you are smart politicians, and you also know that you always ask for the price; this is one thing, and you can see it. I believe that you are pro-sanctioned, supporting immigration, supporting the war because that is what you are being asked to do. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] Whoever pays the bill orders the song. This is the song we've been listening to here today. Thank you for your attention. [[A long applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-09-26-26	Dear Parliament, We will now move on to the pre-scheduled comments. [[Noise. Several Members are leaving the room.]] Firstly, waiting for my fellow Members seeking rest to leave the Chamber quickly and quietly and then I give the floor to Mr Péter Ungár, Head of the Group. [[It's a short break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, So we will continue our work and I will give the floor to Congressman Péter Ungár. Here you go.
u2022-09-26-27	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, If we have to summarize the relationship between the governments of the last 12 years and green politics, then we can say that it is a series of lies and self-contrasts. Let us recall that, in the year before the corona virus epidemic, Viktor Orbán was still declaring green policy. During a period, the political director, which is a strange status in Hungarian parliamentarism, translated various greenbooks and wrote their introductions. In the past, in 2010-11, Viktor Orbán said that environmental protection was a left-wing issue that had no place in the Orbán government, and then he terminated the Ministry, and then he further affected Hungarian nature protection by doing Zoltán Illés to his State Secretary. After that, he now says that green policy is the main enemy of the Orbán government. He named the Greens as one of his enemies when he spoke of the government's enemies in the current EU debates. There are very few things in which we, the greens, have been right for the last 12 years. The fact that fossil energy is addictive is a very old, more than 30-year-old movement, but a 10-year-old LMP position. Whoever has fossil energy depends on the one who doesn't, and who needs to run his economy. This is the dependence that led to the energy crisis in the 1970s, which resulted in the gas war of 2008-09, and which resulted in the fossil energy crisis that is now being triggered by war. Fossil energy in this House in two hundred years' time will be thought of as something that has been the basis of our economic system for a few ten years. It simply cannot survive that fossil energy, which has no real pricing, must be the basis for all prices. If we look at what institutes have researched, among other things, about the amount of state aid to fossil energy around the world, then they say that the fossil energy industry received 11 million dollars of state aid per minute in 2020. This is very important, because for those who claim that alternative energy can only be created through state dotation and can only really spread with the support of the state in Hungary, we can say that this has been the case with all the energy systems so far, it has been the case with fossils, it has been the case before in the industrial revolution, and it will always be so. We need to switch to another type of energy system, because if we do not, we will no longer create any economy in which the Hungarian people can manage. Although here in the previous moments there was an interesting word link about wind energy, which is that there is a debate within the government, I believe that there are objectively recognizable scientific facts, and I believe that the essence of the matter is that there is something in the world that is true, and there is something wrong; and it is not true that everyone sees only part of the disco ball of truth. Wind energy is an efficient, well-functioning energy source; wind energy balances solar energy; wind energy and solar energy together are a very good mix in a country with a geographical potential such as Hungary. The Eötvös Eötvös Loránd University research group did not say that they were supporting wind energy because someone paid them or because they had a momentary insanity, but because that is the scientific position. What they say is that wind energy has negative effects, they can even be true. What doesn't have a negative effect that creates energy? Everything! That is why energy consumption needs to be reduced as much as possible and the energy we use most effectively. Wind energy is significantly better than, say, coal energy or oil or natural gas. And the problems associated with either flying birds or other natural phenomena are largely eliminated by technology. The fact is that there is also an engineer in the Hungarian government. I think that if someone is an engineer, and there are people here in the benches who have a degree in science and are not part of the Fidesz model, which means that only lawyers can control everything, then they know that the wind can generate energy, and the wind can generate energy that we need to use. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of LMP and MSZP.]]
u2022-09-26-28	I give the floor to Mrs Zsófia Koncz, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2022-09-26-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I think that the Prime Minister has already answered the questions raised by you on many points, and that, therefore, regarding the fact that we have not considered green policy important in the past, I must say that this is not factually true. We talk about solar energy here, and let me just give you some information about that. The increase in solar energy is shown by a 54 per cent increase in the amount of electricity produced by solar power plants in 2021 compared to the previous year. And let's look at the situation in 2014, when the weight of solar energy in electricity production was only 0.2 per cent; in 2021 it was almost 11 per cent. During this period, electricity produced by solar cells increased from 61 gigawatts to 3849 gigawatts, i.e. more than 57 times. In 2021, we had the highest share of solar power plants in electricity production in the European Union, and, as Prime Minister said, we have further plans on this. I think this is an extremely ambitious wording that we have set out to be a climate neutral country by 2050 and to reduce emissions while strengthening the Hungarian economy. I also think that it is very important that CO2 emissions per capita are, by the way, the ninth best value among the Member States of the European Union. 64 percent of Hungarian electricity production is carbon-free. And here we also have ambitious plans, as by 2030 90 percent of Hungarian electricity production can be carbon-free using two clean energy sources, solar and nuclear energy combined. And if we look at the EU's targets, we can say that we have already achieved the target by 2020, because in 2020 the share of energy from renewable sources in gross final energy consumption rose to 13.9 per cent, and by 2030 the share of renewable energy sources will increase from 14 per cent to at least 21 per cent. [[15.20]] We are greening and making the district heating sector more competitive, we are turning transport in an environmentally friendly direction, and our aim is obviously to improve the electricity grid by increasing solar capacity, making it more flexible, with the government providing a government support of 103 billion for the development of electricity networks, and at the end of the programme, the electricity supply system will be able to receive two thousand megawatts more energy from renewable sources. We also talked about adopting the climate action plan. It has a number of points, and I know that the Member knows these points well, but I think that this should not be forgotten, and it is therefore important to point out that we have not just begun to deal with these issues. If we highlight only a few of these, we will eliminate illegal landfills, ban single-use plastics from 1 July 2021, plant ten trees after each newborn, and reach 27 per cent of forest-covered areas by 2030. We talked about traffic, and here we are highlighting the appearance of cheap electric cars. As part of the Green Bus programme, electric buses in cities over 25,000 people are allowed to be placed on the market and the green government bond has been introduced. And the government has agreed to use the money from this money only for climate-friendly programs. In addition, I think that in the current war situation and in the energy crisis caused by the sanctions imposed by Brussels, the Hungarian government has a responsibility, and I also think that the opposition has the responsibility to ensure energy supply. To this end, we have a number of measures that help Hungarian families. Such is the reduction of the rent, which can help Hungarian families by up to HUF 181 thousand per month, firewood program, brown coal program and price stops. I'm sure you know, Congressman, that the gas stop, the food stop, has been extended until the end of the year and the interest stop until 30 June next year. We are asking for your support in these important matters. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-09-26-30	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr László Toroczkai, the leader of the Group of the Mi Hazan Group.
u2022-09-26-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In fact, I must deviate from the original intention of my speech before the agenda in so far as we have been able to clarify a few issues here with the Prime Minister. It turned out that the government was really on the side of multinationals, global capital. So when a post was posted on the Prime Minister's Facebook page in the middle of the summer, which was about Hungary wanting to make an exception during the global recession, so it means that they want to bring as much foreign capital and global capital to Hungary as possible, it was a clear message. It can now be seen from concrete action that the government is indeed moving towards global capital rather than towards the Hungarian SME sector. We find this very sad, and we cannot support the government in this, unlike in the fight against Brussels bureaucrats or even in the fight against sanctions. I am saddened to note that our proposals that I wanted to talk about now, and I will certainly continue to talk about them again in the future, are rejected by the Government without exception. Therefore, the government is not even willing to engage in any dialogue with us, even though we were not financed by the Americans during the campaign, which the Prime Minister calls illegal; I consider it treason. Imagine, let's say, our fellow Balliberian Members, that if one of the parties found out here that the Russians financed his campaign, what a world scandal it would be! But there is a party here, the Hungarian Movement, which has not been supported by any foreign power, and yet our proposals are being swept off the table by the government. We cannot really understand this, and we cannot accept it in any way, just as the Prime Minister still refuses to answer what the problem is with digital tax, so why we cannot follow the Austrian example, why we cannot tax global, large digital multi-businesses within the national state framework, even though Facebook could pay a lot of money into the state register, for example. I very much hope that it is not that when there was a debate between the government and Facebook, the government concluded that, if I remember correctly, Facebook paid 3 billion forints as such to the Hungarian state register. If we consider the global turnover of Facebook and the Meta behind Facebook, we can say that on the basis of this government idea or tactic, a Hungarian entrepreneur, a Hungarian company, could redeem its tax liability by about a few thousand forints in relation to its own revenues. Well, about that, Facebook is exempt from all other taxes by HUF 3 billion. I do not understand why HUF 3 billion is so important to the Hungarian government that it would rather give up hundreds of billions, which it could generate as revenue under the digital tax. Then I cannot accept what the government is saying, and now the Prime Minister has said that we, when we asked the government for a reduction or remission of the system usage fee in the middle of the summer, heard from the Prime Minister's reply that this is actually because of the promotion of green energy, i.e. the fact that the system usage fee is even increasing by three and a half times in the case of electricity. Well, then let me add that the government would have had a long time ago to do so, especially when it was trying to take back into Hungarian hands, which, by the way, we can also support strategic sectors from the multinationals, in order to ensure, for example, network development. Speaking of solar energy, the network itself often cannot cope with the need to regenerate renewable energy. The government didn't care about that either. And the fact that VAT is not released by the government in the case of energy bills is a category of fairytales, and it insists on the world's highest, 27 percent VAT, because it goes to the reduction of the overhead bill. In English, on the one hand, this is obviously not true, so all VAT revenue does not go that way, and on the other hand this is very funny. So he has the Hungarian people pay the VAT, then he gives back the money to reduce the rent instead of accepting our proposals by the government, and for example, he would take money from digital giant companies and, for example, introduce the property tax. So the Prime Minister also said, in response to my suggestion, that this was not supported by the government. We can't accept that either. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-09-26-32	Mr Robert Répássy, State Secretary, will answer. Here you go.
u2022-09-26-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, I would first of all like to respond to your suggestion of violation of party law and illegal party financing. It is clear that the Hungarian laws ensure that both parties with parliamentary representation and the parties to the elections are able to continue their operation and campaign from the state budget. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) On the other hand, there is an obligation to ensure transparent and legal management, one of the important requirements of which is that they cannot accept support from abroad, just as they cannot accept anonymous support. So they're both strictly forbidden, and that's why it's a perfectly legitimate point, and I think it's in all of our common interest that we have to investigate this case. Banned campaign support, if the conditions for this are met, will entail legal sanctions, not to mention issues related to intervention in political life; these are the ones that may raise national security risks. What I would also like to suggest to you is that the Ministry of Justice has set up a so-called Digital Freedom Committee, which specifically examines how these major social media and other social platforms comply with legislation and how they affect the institutions of the rule of law. So this committee will look at the regulation of the digital space on a number of topics. [[15.30]] So I would also like to ask you and your group to monitor and support the legislation of the Ministry of Justice in this regard. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-09-26-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. We'll get back to work. Szabó Timea has applied for a pre-meeting speech from the Dialogue Group. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-09-26-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. At this time, when Prime Minister is speaking before the agenda, it is difficult not to respond once again to Prime Minister's words. That's how it is now. It was very interesting that when I mentioned to Prime Minister that Judit Varga literally said that there were very large cuts in the budget, we couldn't help but read from Mr. Prime Minister's mouth that he said that he had received it. So in Hungarian: they admit that there is a austerity in the budget, but they only scolded the minister who publicly said it. But at least we already know that. Looks like Máté Kocsis is crying so much for his goldfish... In parentheses, though, some people will not mourn the goldfish in winter, but will freeze in their homes, so the words of the Fidesz faction leader are rather cynical. He here denied that the sanctions were actually not in this way, nor in the way, nor in the Fidesz voted. Then let me read a point from the European Parliament resolution voted by the representatives of Fidesz. This is how it is said literally, point 12:, he stressed that the full and effective implementation of existing sanctions throughout the EU and by the EU's international allies should now be a priority. It calls on Member States to identify and, if necessary, establish as soon as possible the legal basis necessary to ensure full and effective compliance with sanctions in international jurisdictions. It calls on the Commission and EU supervisory authorities to closely monitor the effective and comprehensive implementation of all EU sanctions by Member States and to take action against circumvention practices. This was therefore included in the decision adopted by the European Parliament with the support of Fidesz, and which Viktor Orbán did not veto in the European Council, even though he had the opportunity. We can ask ourselves what Vladimir Putin asks of the representatives of Fidesz and the government of Viktor Orbán in exchange for supporting the Russian war criminal and supporting a war aggressor in a community that has nothing to do with these dictatorial methods. Once again, Russia is not our friend; Russia is a war aggressor and Vladimir Putin has attacked a sovereign country. That's what I'm talking about. You can wash Russia, wash Vladimir Putin, but unfortunately, the facts don't change. And it doesn't change even if it seems that Viktor Orbán is in so much pain that he says that he doesn't, because we voted for the Poles and we didn't break up Europe's unity. Viktor Orbán and his government have already broken Europe's unity. There is a reason for the rule of law proceedings against Hungary right now; Hungary is not the only country against which, unfortunately, the European Union is trying to impose such a level of money retention because you are constantly stealing money. I very much hope that you want to change that, and we very much hope that Hungary will have access to these EU funds, because they will help people. A crisis like what we have now is an opportunity for everyone to come to their senses and realize that there is a need to switch to green thinking, green energy and renewable energy sources. We're very happy to finally say that after ten years that there should be solar power plants. But the fact that, for example, you are still boycotting the wind power plant by administrative means, which is not because there is a dispute whether it is good or not, because then you would not be boycotting it with a means that in Hungary there is no wind power plant within 12 kilometres of the inhabited area. Well, there is no such point in Hungary. Then they would have said it wasn't because the wind farm wasn't useful or too expensive. We need to switch to these, and nuclear is not the answer. We support the extension of the Paks I plant for the period, we have said this before, but we do not need Paks II. However, we need energy efficiency building renovation worth 5 million HUF, each household needs to help the government. You have already received EU funding worth 300 billion forints, which you have redirected to the public buildings, and the population has suffered again. Start this again, and help the Hungarian people survive this winter! Thank you. [[Applause from the lines of Dialogue and MSZP.]]
u2022-09-26-36	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, responds to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-09-26-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond briefly, because the Prime Minister has already presented the Government's position in detail. I would also like to confirm here that the government, Hungary, has not supported sanctions that are meaty for the country. That is why we are not covered by the oil guarantee, and that is why we do not take the gas sanction on the agenda, even though I would like to introduce it otherwise. His speech could develop the picture as if the left had a solution to the crisis and helped the Hungarians make a living. There are five basic circumstances that tear this feeling apart. First of all, you did not support any measures to protect families, such as pricestops; you called it a scam. From the outset, they have been supporting sanctions that have been tightening up the European economy. Your fellow Congressman would've shut off the gas taps. Thirdly, they campaigned all the time to ensure that Hungary did not receive the EU funds that would otherwise be due to it. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] I will be interested to know if the necessary legislative amendments to the agreement will be voted in favour. Then we also know that, despite the crisis, taxes would be raised, a tax increase of HUF 3200 billion was submitted, the Dialogue would increase income tax to 30 percent and they would also want to pay carbon tax. Fifth factor: if the question is why the left is doing all this, then we have received an answer, namely from Péter Márki-Zay, who made it clear that they received hundreds of millions of HUF support from abroad for their campaign. Your personal campaign also raised suspicion that it was funded from abroad. These financial aids are hardly free from requests. [[András Fekete-Győr intervenes.]] No one can be serious about this, even if they dress him up as a charity and a civilian gown. But at least we know where the wind blows, so that's the left's point of view. One thing, please do: convince your foreign sponsors to sit at the negotiating table. [[Szabó Timea: Unfortunately, I don't!]] Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-09-26-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, From the Jobbik Group, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpat will be taking the floor before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-09-26-39	Mr President, Dear House, Well, we got back to the treadmill quickly, but it has to be said that at the dawn of a crisis period or perhaps at the beginning or at the beginning of a crisis period, it would be good to be able to say national minimums, and perhaps it could be agreed, regardless of the chariot camps, that support for families, especially and specifically for families raising children, could be a basic value that not only helps people to thrive in their homeland, in this very difficult period, the families affected stay in Hungary and even survive at all. Therefore, in the next few days, weeks and otherwise, I have already started this process by putting details of a family protection package on the table. Several of these proposals have been submitted. That is why I was confused before today's meeting of the Economic Committee, where it may have been that a government promoting the protection of families has rejected one by one, but not by a vote, the reduction in VAT on basic foods and, even more harsh, the reduction in VAT on child-rearing articles. I would like to point out to my fellow Members that I support the Government when and when it talks about achieving positive demographic targets. My problem is that he talks about it most, but when it should be supported by action, as in this case, let alone abstain, he may vote against it. Fellow Members! About a year and a half ago, there was a strategic point, a point where the value of the family allowance had become less than the value of the tax that a family that raised a child would pay you in the budget. [[15.40]] It was a symbolic point that you have already taxed that child's child better on the statistical average than you are receiving a family allowance. I myself am not a fan of welfare nor of brainless family replacements. I do not hide that, in the name of Jobbik, we would double the family allowance with an arrangement called "Family Card" to buy basic food, child-rearing articles and services for the benefit of the child's spiritual development, so it would be guaranteed to finance spending on children's interests. At the same time, I am amazed that this government not only said that it is okay in terms of basic foods, but also in terms of child-rearing articles, that it is okay in the 400-500 forints baby food, that it is okay in their view that a child's clothing or a small shoe for a child is such a horrific price that a family that realizes an average wage cannot buy it, not to mention the price of the other articles needed for raising children. That is why I call on you to support all the elements of our family protection package; one of the most important of these is perhaps our proposal for an eviction moratorium. Perhaps in your mailboxes and in your mailboxes, the distress messages that call for September are in October, and they suggest that the number of evictions, the number of evictions without accommodations, has been brutally heated. And although there are supposed to be rules that would protect these families, we see that Hungary is essentially becoming a paradise for executives in the fall. I will bring you another proposal that could help the situation: I do not understand how you have not been able to support the proposal that 33 percent and 50 percent bans on minimum pensions, minimum wage, small income, income for survival; we will re-submit this proposal in a deeper way. I call on you not to allow these prohibitions to take place in the middle of a crisis, especially in the case of families raising children. The question of VAT has already been discussed. Let me get this straight. If the reduction in the rent is partially abolished, they market the bills, this government will achieve higher VAT revenue on higher accounts. There's no argument between us, is there? [[No signal.]] I don't think so. I expect this government to declare, say, that it will not make any extra profit on the marketised accounts, it will not profit from the misery of Hungarian families. So whoever stands up and answers here, please make it clear that this government is willing to realize this extra profit or not. No secret, I call on you to release the VAT content of your bills, leave this with families, but also with respect to the whole range of basic foods and with regard to child-rearing articles, let go of the VAT. We have developed a monitoring system that can guarantee that VAT cuts will also result in a price reduction, and we will always sit down with you in Parliament to draw up the detailed rules for this; this is possible under Article XXI. In the century, government will depend on the whole thing. I therefore call on you to be fully on the side of families, once again, at the beginning and middle of a crisis period. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the opposition ranks.]]
u2022-09-26-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr President, before the agenda, we will hear the answer from Mrs Eszter Vitalyos, State Secretary. Here you go, Madam Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-09-26-41	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, To your question before the agenda, entitled "Who Protects Hungarian Families on the Road?" My very short and firm answer is what. The civil-national government protects families in the current situation of the Russian-Ukrainian war and the failed sanctions in Brussels, and to avoid getting on the side of the road, as you say, that is what we protect Hungarian families from. On the other hand, the left-wing coalition, of which you are a member, has long been hungry for power on the shoreline with their newly formed shadow government, and cheers for every decision in Brussels that adversely affects Hungarian people and Hungarian families, expecting these decisions to bring you to power. On the question of VAT, allow me to react. We have already said this many times, and today the Prime Minister has also replied that, under the influence of the various external factors, prices react flexibly and downwards, so the reduction of VAT rates is not expected to appear in prices; we do not see the solution in this. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in 2010, more than 31 percent of the Hungarian population was at risk of poverty and exclusion, with only 18.2 percent in 2020. The proportion of people living in relative income poverty decreased from 14.1 per cent to 12 per cent by 2020, with the number of people living in severe material deprivation falling from 23 per cent to 8.3 per cent. We continue on this path and protect the Hungarian families with our family policy, which has been able to produce only results since 2010. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-09-26-42	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. From the Momentum Group, Mr Ferenc Gelencsér Group leader applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2022-09-26-43	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, It's re-session, we're back here to talk about important things that determine the present and future of our country, to argue. Once again, when you come up with a proposal, on this side of the parliamentary horseshoe, Members will make their comments so that you can integrate them into the original proposals for the success of Hungary and the common good. That's how a democracy would work, but, you know, we all know that our country hasn't been on this path in a very long time. We should now be asking questions that greatly affect the lives and the very existence of Hungarians: that we have become pariahs in Europe; that our country is being used as a Trojan horse by a war criminal, to which you are assisting without question; that you have caused a crisis in the economy; that you have been unable to use ten years of economic prosperity, cheap Eastern energy and cheap Western capital to get Hungary on an evolving path, and that, despite the possibilities of the last ten years, the biggest social crisis in the last thirty years is threatening our country. We will talk about you saying something completely different in Brussels than at home; about voting in favour of sanctions and then crying out your own media at home by fighting for freedom in the face of sanctions with Brussels bureaucrats, who, by the way, are you. Following this speech, one of their State Secretarys said that this was all because of the migrants in Brussels led by György Soros, who, of course, are all left-wing, not to mention that in 2022 this or better than it was in 2006. Ladies and gentlemen, No one cares what happened 16 years ago, people want to live in the present. There aren't enough teachers in this country today, there aren't enough policemen, there aren't enough doctors. Hungarians want everyday life in the present, because let's face it, in this country there is no ordinary Tuesday. They campaigned that there would be no increase in electricity and gas prices; that there would be good economic conditions in the country; that there would be no restrictions; that there would be no increase in taxes. All you've been doing since April is raising taxes and making cuts. The Hungarians can't stand any more austerity! I was recently in Derke, where an elderly woman came to me with her newest rent bill. He was talking about half of his minimum pension being on medication, and at the end of the month, he was a problem with the food supply. This winter, however, you will have to decide at the end of the month whether to buy food or heat the apartment with the rest of your money. God only knows how many similar cases there are in this country. These people are desperately trying to get help, but there's no way any of you can look them in the eye. Why did we get here? Because you do not live for the nation, but for the nation; because you refused to stop the theft of EU money; because you built horse wellness from EU funds and 11 lookout points in a single village. Why is the Hungarian poor? Because you deliberately destroyed the forint. What government executes its own national currency? Ladies and gentlemen, Today, a dollar cost HUF 425, during governments not exactly famous for their success before 2010, it moved around HUF 200. Expensive dollars and expensive euros drive inflation up, nearly 70 percent more expensive bread than last year. And before you start arguing about war inflation, compare the price changes in the Visegrád countries. You're beating the middle class. No government can give up helping the middle class, we all know that this country is on their shoulders. [[15.50]] If the skilled workers, the teachers, the office workers, the young family members are pushed into poverty by you, and the chances of their raising their children with honest work, fair, to reach them one by two, this country will collapse. You have lived up to the present of Hungarians, lived up to the future of Hungarians, and are trying to sell the past to them wrapped in silk paper. There is only one way out of this crisis: we need to give immediate help to Hungarian people. We therefore demand that the VAT on electricity and natural gas be abolished and that the system charges be drastically reduced. Thank you. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-09-26-44	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Mr Balázs Fürjes responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-09-26-45	[[No sound.]] Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. [[Your name doesn't appear on the display.]] Maybe it's not working. [[Intercoms: Yes! It's working!]]
u2022-09-26-46	If only it could be said to Mr. Secretary of State. If you don't, I'm gonna need a hand mike. [[The name of Dr. Balázs Fürjes appears on the display.]]
u2022-09-26-47	It's okay now. Thank you very much. Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, I have a little problem with what to call Mr. Congressman, and I'm still enjoying that, Mr. statesman, that's the right way to address him. You said you were a statesman in a Facebook post after two years of municipal representation and three months of parliamentary representation when you were barely 30 years old. Not to mention that statesmen aren't usually born on the basis of self-revelation, I was a little surprised at that, but I thought it was me, so I pulled out the interpreter dictionary, what the interpreter dictionary says, who the statesman is, you said you were a statesman. Two solutions are provided by the Interpretative Dictionary, the Hungarian Értelmező Hand Vocabulary: a high-ranking public figure, a person involved in or managing the government of the state, a high-level politician. This, in your case, is not yet correct, but the second solution can be: a politician with extraordinary abilities, an age-like effect in principle; a wise, sober, excellent, a great statesman. Give us some help with that, even in a Facebook post, as to what kind of performance it is that qualifys you for the state male quality. Not to mention, on the basis of which momentary politicians determine who is a statesman and who is not in contemporary Hungarian history. Less funny episode that you then used the welcome of the war criminal, Fascist Ferenc Szalasi on Facebook. If a right-wing politician did this, I'd have him quartered. We never do that. You're mixed up in dandruff, you're allied with the Arrowmen, you're allied with the little Nazis, and you're eaten by the dandruff. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] You should make an apology and even consider resigning; if you knew what you were doing, if you didn't know what you were doing, that's why. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-09-26-48	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Before giving the floor to my fellow Member, Imre Komjáthi, I would like to inform you that the vote will take place first, because DK, KDNP and Fidesz have withdrawn their speeches before the agenda, and since there is no way to replace them, the vote will accordingly take place. Mr Imre Komjathi has therefore applied for a speech from the MSZP Group before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-09-26-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you, fellow Members. From my precious time, I would only take ten seconds to feel very bad when personalizing this level is an answer to a speech before the agenda. In my case, you can try it, I'm not offended, but you can try the House. [[Applause from the opposition benches. Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Shame on you!]] Prime Minister, you were acting like Mrs Bodón when you asked for the price of wine, so you were delirious. [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks, including: Is this not personal?!]] Mr Zita Gurmai promised my colleague that he would explain why the government is profiting from the 12 HUF electricity generated by the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. He didn't do it. I hope that one of you will do this and will inform the Hungarian people in detail why the government must profit when our reactor, which has been operating for nearly 40 years, produces electricity at 12 forints, and the government gives it to the population at 70 forints and 460 forints to the municipalities. But I would like to say two things: that was one, the issue of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, and the other, the question of VAT. We've been waiting a long time for answers, answers that when the government can help people by lowering the 27 percent VAT rate to 5 percent of gas, coke, wood, and any energy carrier that people use, and the price of which is going to skyrocket, then why is the government winning, just like it does with the Paks electricity. For each energy carrier with 27 percent VAT, the government takes in profits. This profit could be passed on to people in such a critical situation. Minister Palkovics said in the case of 12 forints of Paks electricity, that this is stupid. I think the stupidity of raising the burden of the population unnecessarily in times of crisis is the stupidity of asking for 70 forints over average consumption and 460 for municipalities. Tell me why they're raising the price of residential electricity when there's no need for that. Ladies and gentlemen, The other is the question of 27 percent VAT. We see that the rising price has only one winner, that is the government. In district heating, the MSZP reduced the VAT rate to 5 percent. Why can't you do that? I say, in agreement with the proposal of the MSZP as a real left-wing party, that the state should not profit from energy prices. It is not normal to pay 159 forints instead of 22 forints in gas and 15 forints instead of 7.5 forints in electricity. Make it 5 percent for electricity, gas, LPG, firewood, briquettes, coke and bottled LPG instead of the current 27 percent! In Germany and Spain, taxes on energy sources have already been cut, but still in 16 EU Member States. While in other European countries the government is in the process of reviving overhead subsidies, the Orbán government is taking it back and wants additional budget revenue through price increases. That's mean. Ladies and gentlemen, I read that Matthew Kocsis was forced to part with his aquarium and his favorite goldfish. I'm really asking you to stop this. I am already a Member of Parliament, but the 33 years I have spent in the world of work have not passed without a trace, I still have the self-esteem of working people, people living on wages and salaries, believe me that such cynicism violates the self-esteem of working people, when they say that those who have nothing are worth it when they say that they can make a living out of 47,000 forints. I know that everyone's on their own level, and I'm very happy for you to be miserable at this level, that what hurts is what happens to your goldfish. But the people who write to us, entrepreneurs, family mothers, family fathers, decently grayed pensioners at work, they tell us they can't pay the rent, they don't know how to pay the drug, they don't know how to change the yellow check or the kid's leaky shoes. I ask you very much that the name of the MSZP can be described in all lower-case terms as Nemec, so do it if that is the price of accepting our proposals and introducing a Resistop, then so be it. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-09-26-50	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Rétvári Bence, State Secretary, responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-09-26-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You have talked about a number of things, honourable Member, including VAT cuts. What did the left do to the VAT when he was on the wheel? Because you can say a lot here, honourable Member, between the walls of this House, there is only one thing you do not talk about, that when you were in a position to make a decision, exactly what you were doing. [[16.00]] What did you do with the VAT when you started your government in 2003-2004? The zero rate has been abolished. They weren't reduced, they increased. One of their first steps was to increase the tax rate from the zero rate. Then you increased the reduced tax rate of 12 percent to 15 percent. VAT on electricity [[Noise.]] VAT on electricity, honourable Member, you raised it from 12 to 25 percent in 2003-2004, except for Ferenc Gyurcsány, of course the price of electricity, because he had, in his companies, a discounted electricity price. But for you people, it was not enough that the prices on the world market were completely thrown at Hungarian people, but they even raised the VAT rate on electricity from 12 to 25 percent. Even in 2006, you continued, by the way, by removing the 15 percent VAT rate, raising VAT to 20 percent, and then you announced a five-year tax reduction programme before the 2006 election, which ended with the fact that after the election, when the election was won, VAT was raised by 5 percent, honourable Member. So you can talk about a variety of tax cuts here, but the problem is that when you were on the government, you didn't reduce taxes, you didn't lower VAT, you raised VAT. But this was no different in their opposition time, as we have tabled countless tax-cutting proposals here in Parliament in recent years. I would ask Congresswoman Kunhalmi that if she didn't speak standing up and sitting down, I would see Congressman Komjathi, but she doesn't seem to hear or see me. I will answer Congressman Komjath, and I cannot see it from you. [[Agnes Kunhalmi takes a seat. Imre Komjathi, standing up, listens to the answer.]] Thank you very much. So after 2010, you would have had many opportunities, Mr honourable Member, to support tax reductions and VAT reductions here. There were several proposals here in Parliament, especially in the case of basic food prices. Can you tell me one thing that you have voted for since 2010 for a VAT reduction? They didn't vote for these because they said these traders would swallow them. They said that they would be a price reduction for a period of time or an hour, but then the merchants would have it, not the people. Therefore, you have not voted for any VAT cuts here in Parliament, and now you are standing up and talking about VAT reductions. In fact, their own Prime Minister candidate said that he saw the diaper's VAT cut, even during the former Orbán government, but it also landed with the merchants. So you are speaking very differently, honourable Member, and you are saying very different things. But if we listen to the shadow minister of your shadow government, Dávid Ference, he's talking about nothing but the fact that we shouldn't put in a gas and food stop, but rather the public should save money. Honourable Congressman, You say you speak for the workers, and sometimes you get angry. Well, when you hear something like that from the shadow minister on your left side, so you don't have a gas stop, you don't have a food stop, you don't want people to buy less, you don't get angry? And if you're angry, why are you holding back that anger? Why is it in the environment that nods on this shadow minister and does not speak against him, honourable Member? I think it would be more credible if you spoke at a time like this, and you didn't just say nice words when you were trying to whip the government. You, honourable Member, have never supported or always opposed the reduction of the rent. They said all kinds of characteristics, sometimes called communism, sometimes called stupidity, unsustainable, many other things, but they always supported something, and those sanctions; they say they work. Today, we have heard from you in Parliament at least four times that sanctions work, while the Hungarian people see war price increases in their daily lives, price increases due to sanctions. Here, as if your speech was sent from another country, as if you were translating machines, as if you were saying in Hungarian in the Hungarian Parliament, here today at least four times they said that sanctions are working, and even some party leaders and party leaders are demanding strict sanctions, saying that they must be implemented and that these sanctions are very correct. These sanctions have also put Hungary in a very difficult position, and Hungary is the only government that helps families to this extent, with HUF 181 thousand per month, so that the increase in overhead due to war and sanctions is not felt in everyday life. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-09-26-52	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to inform the House that Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP, Péter Jakab, and our colleague László Varju, DK, have applied for a speech after today's agenda. Now I ask my fellow Members to take their seats, to check that their cards have been properly placed in the voting machine. Dear House, We now have the credentials and the representatives' oaths. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that due to the resignation of the Szabó Hajnalka and Noémi Végh Members, the Jobbik Movement for Hungary has nominated Mr.Ander Balázs and Róbert Dudás from the national list, who I welcome to the lodge. The committee for the examination of mandates met before the meeting and examined the regularity of the credentials of Mr Ander Balázs and Mr Róbert Dudás on the basis of the electoral documents. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to President János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee on the Exemptions, who will give the result of the examination of the mandate in accordance with the rules of the House 9. He shall report to the Parliament in accordance with paragraph 2 of Section 2. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2022-09-26-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The National Election Committee has issued the vacant seats to Mr Ander Balázs and Mr Róbert Dudás. On 25 September, this decision became legally effective at 4 p.m. and received their credentials that day. The necessary documents have been submitted to the Committee meeting. The committee found these to be complete. They said in writing that there was no conflict of interest with them, so the committee unanimously proposed to the Honourable Parliament that the mandate of the Members of Parliament, Mr Ander Balázs and Mr Róbert Dudás, should be confirmed by the Parliament. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-09-26-54	Thank you very much. Dear House, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a proposal amending the report on the outcome of the mandate examination cannot be submitted. The seats shall be certified by the Parliament individually, without debate. Dear Parliament, Before we begin the voting procedure, we will carry out a presence check to verify that the voting machines are operational. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. [[Attendance check.]] 154 Members present, 43 Members absent. I am now asking the Honourable Parliament to justify the mandate of Ander Balázs. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament confirmed the mandate of Ander Balázs with 156 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. I am now asking the Honourable Parliament to justify Róbert Dudás's mandate. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the mandate of Róbert Dudás was confirmed by 158 votes in favour, without voting against, with 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Now the elected representatives will be solemnly sworn and the oath papers signed. I call on Members of the Council of Balázs Ander and Róbert Dudás to come to the centre of the Chamber and take their oath. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Believer to read out the text of the oath, and I would ask the Members in the Chamber to listen to their vows as usual when they arrive. [[The people in this room stand up. Ander Balázs and Róbert Dudás steps into the middle of the room. Dezső gullible reads the words of the oath.]]
u2022-09-26-55	I, Balázs Ander/Róbert Dudás, accept that I will be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, keep its legislation and keep it with others; I will exercise my office as Members of Parliament for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God. [[Applause.]] [[16.10]]
u2022-09-26-56	My fellow Members, please take your seats. The oath papers will now be signed. I would ask Mr Vinnai Győző to prepare the oath papers for signature and the elected Members to sign them. [[It's happening. The Dr. Winner Vinnai, who signed the oath document, congratulates Ander Balázs and Róbert Dudás, and gives them a copy of the signed oath document. Ander to Balázs and Róbert Dudás first Máté Kocsis, then Dr. István Simicskó, Dr. Zita Gurmai, Péter Ungár, Szabó Timea, Imre Ritter and Dr. György Lukács.]] Dear Parliament, Allow me to congratulate Mr Ander Balázs and Mr Róbert Dudás on their election, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, and wish them success in the performance of their work. Dear House, I declare that the number of Members of Parliament is 199. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Katalin Novák, President of the Republic, sent a transcript of the termination of the office of State Secretary to the Parliament. I respectfully invite Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the transcript of the President of the Republic. Here you go, notary.
u2022-09-26-57	László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 204. On the basis of paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Act, on the proposal of the Prime Minister, I concluded that, in view of the resignation of this mandate of Mr János Süli, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, he ceased with effect from 5 September 2022. Budapest, 6 September 2022 Sincerely, President Katalin Novak
u2022-09-26-58	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I am pleased to inform you that at the World Championship of Intersteno, stenographers, typists and text editors held in Maastricht in August, the stenographers of the Office of Parliament again achieved outstanding results. From shorthand Erika Vicai 2nd, Mária Madarasz 5th, from record management Erika Vicai 4th, and Mária Madarasz 5th. [[A big round of applause. Intercoms: Bravo! Erika Vicai and Mary Madaras thank you for your applause standing up.]] On behalf of the Parliament and myself, I congratulate both of you, and wish you further success in your work. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that no consensus was reached at last week's meeting of the House Committee on the proposed working schedule of the National Assembly's autumn session in 2022, and therefore Parliamentary Act 13. Pursuant to paragraph 6 of Section 6 of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the working order. The proposed working schedule has already been made available to my fellow Members on the website. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the proposed working schedule of the autumn session. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the working order by 126 votes in favour, 41 votes against and 6 abstentions. I would like to inform you that the government has submitted a legislative programme for the autumn session, which interested parties have learned on the IT network. Dear Parliament, It is now time to set the agenda for our meeting starting today. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal to derogate from house rules. The proposal put forward by the President initiates the Parliament to negotiate, by way of derogation from the House Rule, the 2010 CXXX on legislation in order to reach agreement with the European Commission. Act and Act CXXXI of 2010 on social participation in the preparation of legislation. T/705 amending Act No. Act No.3; in order to reach agreement with the European Commission, the 2017 XC on criminal proceedings. T/706. Proposal T/1202 amending certain laws in order to reach agreement with the European Commission Proposal T/1260 on the control of the use of EU budget resources Proposal T/1261 on the amendment of certain laws relating to the control of the use of EU budget resources. Bill No. 1. Proposal for a derogation from house rules T/705/3, T/706/3, T/1202/3, T/1260/3 and T/1261/3. can be found on the website. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, a vote of four fifths of the Members of Parliament present is required. I ask the Honourable Parliament to agree to a derogation from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not accept the derogation from the rule of law by 139 votes in favour, 30 votes against and 8 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on emergency proposals. The rapporteur initiated that, in order to reach agreement with the European Commission, the 2010 CXXX on legislation should be adopted. Act and Act CXXXI of 2010 on social participation in the preparation of legislation. T/705 amending Act No. The Parliament shall discuss the number of proposals under urgent procedure. The urgent proposal initiates the possibility of submitting an amending proposal on 26 September 2022, that is to say, today, Monday, until the conclusion of the general debate; the stage of the detailed debate should open with the conclusion of the general debate on the bill; the Legislative Committee is the House Rule 46 of the Decision. After receiving the information referred to in paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article, but in accordance with paragraph 46. Before the deadline laid down in paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, you may evaluate the Commission's proposals for amendments closing the detailed debate. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a vote of two thirds of the Members present is required to order an urgent hearing. With that in mind, I'm asking you, you're going to have an urgent meeting with T/705. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament took the submission to the urgent hearing by 140 votes in favour, 29 votes against and 10 abstentions. [[16.20]] Dear Parliament, In order to reach an agreement with the European Commission, the author initiated the procedure for the conduct of criminal proceedings in 2017 by XC. Parliament will discuss the T/706 amendment of the Act in the context of an urgent procedure. The urgent proposal initiates the possibility of submitting the amending proposal on 26 September 2022, i.e. today, pending the conclusion of the general debate. [[Bence of Turdai: How democratic! It's so legal.]] The detailed debate phase should be opened by closing the general debate on the bill. The Legislative Committee is the resolution house rule 46. After receiving the information referred to in paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article, but in accordance with paragraph 46. Before the deadline laid down in paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, you may evaluate the Commission's proposals for amendments closing the detailed debate. Dear House, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a vote of two thirds of the Members present is required to order an urgent hearing. So I'm asking you, T/706 will be brought to an urgent trial. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament took the submission to the urgent hearing by 143 votes in favour, 29 votes against and 10 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The rapporteur initiated that T/1202 amending certain laws in order to reach agreement with the European Commission The Parliament shall discuss the number of proposals under urgent procedure. The urgent proposal initiates the possibility of submitting an amending proposal on 26 September 2022, i.e. today, pending the conclusion of the general debate. The detailed debate phase should be opened by closing the general debate on the law. The Legislative Committee is the resolution house rule 46. After receiving the information referred to in paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article, but in accordance with paragraph 46. Before the deadline laid down in paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, you may evaluate the Commission's proposals for amendments closing the detailed debate. Dear House, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a vote of two thirds of the Members present is required to order an urgent hearing. I ask my fellow Members, therefore, that the T/1202 be dealt with as a matter of urgency. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament took the submission to the urgent hearing by 143 votes in favour, 30 votes in favour and 10 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It was initiated by the author that T/1260 on the control of the use of EU budget resources. The Parliament shall discuss the number of proposals under urgent procedure. The urgent proposal initiates a general debate on the bill on 26 September 2022, i.e. today on 16/d. It shall take place as an item on the agenda. It should be possible to present the amending proposal on 26 September 2022, so today, until the general debate is concluded. The detailed debate phase should be opened by closing the general debate on the bill. The Legislative Committee is the resolution house rule 46. After receiving the information referred to in paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article, but in accordance with paragraph 46. Before the deadline laid down in paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, you may evaluate the Commission's proposals for amendments closing the detailed debate. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a vote of two thirds of the Members present is required to order an urgent hearing. I ask you, therefore, that the T/1260 be brought to an urgent trial. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament took the submission to the urgent hearing by 144 votes in favour, 30 votes in favour and 10 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The rapporteur initiated the amendment of certain laws relating to the control of the use of EU budget resources by T/1261. The Parliament will also discuss the number of proposals under urgent procedure at this meeting. The urgent proposal initiates a general debate on the bill on 26 September 2022, i.e. today on 16/c. It shall take place as an item on the agenda. The proposal for an amendment should be possible on 26 September 2022, until the general debate is over, and the detailed discussion phase should open with the conclusion of the general debate on the bill. The Legislative Committee is the resolution house rule 46. After receiving the information referred to in paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article, but in accordance with paragraph 46. Before the deadline laid down in paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, you may evaluate the Commission's proposals for amendments closing the detailed debate. I'm trying to fix it because I missed it. So, as I mentioned, for the general debate of the bill on Monday, September 26, 2022, 16/c. It shall take place as an item on the agenda. That's right on the 16th. The agenda item is set out in the I apologize for that. [[Gergely Harvesto: We've noticed!]] Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present to order an emergency hearing. I'm asking you, T/1261 will be brought to an urgent hearing. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament took the submission to the urgent hearing by 143 votes in favour, 30 votes in favour and 10 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you, that's a visible majority. I note that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda proposal. Dear Parliament, In the absence of a committee agreement, on the basis of the motion tabled by the President, we are now deciding on the Commission's discussion and decision-making. I ask the Honourable Parliament to invite the designated Committee on Welfare of the People to submit B/520. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] "B/520." for a decision to be taken on this proposal. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament asked the designated committee to take a decision by 133 votes in favour, 53 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The election of the members and alternate members of the National Election Committee is now taking place. Allow me to welcome the candidates, their relatives and Dr. Attila Nagy, President of the National Election Office, who will sit behind you. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]] Dear House, Under the provisions of the Act on Election Procedure, President Katalin Novák made a proposal for 7 members and 3 alternate members of the National Election Committee. The President of the Parliament on the basis of the motion S/1240. He submitted a personal proposal to this effect. This, as well as the CVs of the candidates, could be found on our website. I now ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the President of the Republic's proposal. [[16.30]]
u2022-09-26-59	László Kövér, President of the Parliament. I would like to inform the Parliament that the XXXVI of 2013 on the electoral procedure. Law 20. §.In accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article, I propose the following: I propose that the National Assembly elect the following persons as members of the National Election Committee: Dr. Borbála Széke Kis, Csaba Cservák, Dr. Zoltán Zsolt Lehel, Dr. Zoltán Attila Réthelyi, Dr. Róbert László Sasvári, Dr. László Szabó Levente, Dr. Tamás Szalay. I propose that the National Assembly elect the following persons as alternate members of the National Election Committee: dr. István Szabó, dr. Norbert Tóth, dr. Balázs Gerencsér, Szabolcs. The proposed persons have provided their CVs and have declared in writing that they comply with the conditions laid down in the Act, that there is no conflict of interest in relation to the membership of the national electoral committee or their alternates. I will send the CVs and declarations attached to this letter. XXXVI of 2013 on the electoral procedure Law 20. §. In view of paragraph 3 of this resolution, I would like to inform the Parliament that I am not proposing any new candidates for a second and further vote. Budapest, 16 September 2022 Sincerely, President Katalin Novak
u2022-09-26-60	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, The members and alternate members of the National Election Committee shall be elected by the Parliament with the votes of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. No amendment shall be tabled. The election of candidates shall be decided by the Parliament by one vote. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to elect the members and alternate members of the National Election Committee as proposed by the President of the Republic. Now, please vote according to the rules of the qualified majority. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly elected the members and alternate members of the National Election Committee by 141 votes in favour, 37 votes against and no abstentions. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]] Dear House, Now it's time for the solemn oath. I call on the elected members and alternate members of the National Election Committee to come to the centre of the Chamber and take the oath. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to read out the text of the oath, and I would ask those in the Chamber to hear it standing up as usual. [[The people in this room stand up. The elected members and alternate members of the National Election Committee shall enter the centre of the Chamber. Dr. Lajos Szűcs reads the words of the oath.]]
u2022-09-26-61	I,... vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law; to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; to exercise my position as a national electoral committee for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-09-26-62	Thank you very much. I now invite Mr Vinnai Győző to prepare the oath papers for signature and invite the elected members and alternates of the National Election Committee to sign them. Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of Parliament and myself, to wish the members and alternate members of the National Election Committee, who have just been elected, effective work and good luck. [[The oath papers will be signed. The Dr. Winner Vinnai, who signed the oath document, congratulates the elected members and alternate members of the National Election Committee and gives a copy of the signed oath document. The elected members are congratulated by Viktor Orbán, Dr. Zsolt Semjén, László Kövér, Máté Kocsis, Dr. István Simicskó, Dr. László György Lukács, Imre Ritter and Dóra Dúró.]] Dear House, It is up to you to discuss and decide on immunity issues. I would like to inform you that the Central District Court of Pesti is responsible for the implementation of Article 6B.21.073/2020/67. Mr András Fekete-Győr, Member of Parliament, requested the suspension of his immunity in public proceedings. This was handed over to the immunity committee under presidential authority for consideration. The immunity committee is H/1110. Mr András Fekete-Győr, Member of Parliament, submitted a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I will give the floor to János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor. [[16.40]]
u2022-09-26-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This is a felony assault on an official. The act was carried out in December 2018, and the procedure has taken place since September 2020. At the time, András Fekete-Győr was not a Member of Parliament. This case is brought before the House because the Parliament's consent is necessary to continue the judicial procedure. It is a public case, as has already been said, and therefore the Committee on immunity unanimously proposes to the Parliament to suspend the immunity of András Fekete-Győr in the case in question. By the way, Mr. Congressman was present at the committee meeting, and that is what you are proposing to the Parliament. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-09-26-64	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask Mr András Fekete-Győr that he wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[András Fekete-Győr: Yes.]] There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-09-26-65	Just very briefly and very concisely. In view of the fact that our country and our fellow citizens are suffering from a serious historical livelihood crisis, I would like to be very brief and concise so that we do not deal with the legal proceedings of András Fekete-Győr here for more than two minutes. All I would like to ask you to do, and I would like to draw your attention to what the President of the Commission has said, is that the members of the new political generation always take responsibility for their actions. The same applies to the consequences of our decisions. We do not hide behind our immunity, and we do not want to prevent the proceedings of the Hungarian courts and Hungarian authorities. Therefore, my respectful request to the Hungarian Parliament is to suspend my immunity. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Momentum.]]
u2022-09-26-66	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position that the congressman's immunity be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of Members of Parliament, Mr András Fekete-Győr. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament suspended the immunity of Mr András Fekete-Győr with 178 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Miskolc District Court is the 14th B.1107/2021/28. In his order No.3 Andrea Hegedüs made a motion to suspend the immunity of Mrs. This was handed over to the immunity committee under presidential authority for consideration. The immunity committee is H/1111. Parliamentary Congresswoman Andrea Hegedüs presented a proposal for a resolution on her immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I shall give the floor to János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2022-09-26-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, This is a crime of slander, so it's a private charge. This procedure is also taking place. When the acts took place well two years ago, Andrea Hegedüs was not a Member of Parliament. Once again, the motion comes before the House to continue the procedure by declaring the Parliament's will. From the correct interpretation of immunity, it follows from my understanding that in such a case there is no reason to put an obstacle to justice, we must say that the matter should continue. This is the proposal I made to the committee, and the committee has confirmed my position by a majority decision. We propose to the Parliament that Congresswoman Andrea Hegedüs' immunity be suspended in this case.
u2022-09-26-68	Thank you very much. I will now ask Mrs Andrea Hegedüs to take advantage of the opportunity to speak.
u2022-09-26-69	No, thank you, Mr. President. I wouldn't take it.
u2022-09-26-70	He doesn't want to live. Thank you very much. Dear House, It follows the decision. I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position to suspend the parliamentary immunity of the congresswoman. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of Congresswoman Andrea Hegedüs. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament suspended the immunity of Congresswoman Andrea Hegedüs with 147 votes in favour, 27 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Kecskemét District Court is 26.BPK.655/2022/7. In his order No.3 he applied for the suspension of the immunity of Mrs. Anna Russian Parliamentary Representative in a private charge. This was handed over to the immunity committee under presidential authority for consideration. The immunity committee is H/1112. Parliamentary Congresswoman Anna Russian presented a proposal for a resolution on her immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I shall give the floor to János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal. Here you go.
u2022-09-26-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Our motion for the immunity of representatives of Anna Orosz, Miklós Hajnal and Endre Tóth will be submitted to the House at the same time. It's about the same case, an act on Facebook. We're talking about a misdemeanor of slander. I reaffirm to Parliament that, when this happens, Members were no longer MEPs or even candidates for Members, so I think it follows from the correct interpretation of immunity law that we do not put obstacles in the way of the judicial system that is already in place here, and that the immunity of Members is suspended in this case. While Andrea Hegedüs received a majority in my motion, in these three cases I did not receive this majority, so this is not exactly what the young generation represented. Therefore, the immunity committee was divided there, with 3 votes in favour and 3 votes against, my motion could not obtain a majority, so it was waiting for the Parliament to decide this question. So my personal position is that in this case, too, we have to decide to suspend immunity in the case in question, but I did not get a majority in the committee meeting. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-09-26-72	I am now going to ask Congresswoman Anna Russian to take advantage of the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] I guess he's not here. Then it's time for the decision. I would like to remind you that the committee has taken a position not to suspend the parliamentary immunity of the congresswoman. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of the Members of the Parliament of Anna Orosz. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament suspended the immunity of Ms Anna Orosz with 150 votes in favour, 30 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Kecskemét District Court is 26.BPK.655/2022/7. Mr Miklós Hajnal applied for the suspension of his immunity in the matter of private indictment. This was handed over to the immunity committee under presidential authority for consideration. The immunity committee is H/1113. Mr Miklós Hajnal presented a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Since President János Hargitai has already presented the committee's position on both Miklós Hajnal and Endre Tóth, which was the same as the Commission's resolution on Congresswoman Anna Orosz, I am now asking that Member Miklós Hajnal wished to make use of the opportunity to speak.
u2022-09-26-73	Thank you, Mr President, I do not wish.
u2022-09-26-74	He doesn't want to. Then it's time for the decision. [[16.50]] I remembered that the committee took a position that the MP's immunity would not be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of MP Miklós Hajnal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament suspended Mr Miklós Hajnal's immunity by 149 votes in favour, 29 votes against and one abstention. Dear House, I would like to inform you that the Kecskemét District Court is the 26th Bpk.655/2022/7. In his order No.3 Endre Tóth applied for the suspension of his immunity in a private charge. This was handed over to the immunity committee under presidential authority for consideration. The immunity committee is H/1114. Parliamentary Congressman Endre Tóth put forward a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. I do not have to give the floor to János Harghitai before the decision is taken, because the same applies here as I just said. It is now my duty to ask Mr Endre Tóth that he wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. Now it's time for the decision. I would remind you that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity will not be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of the Member of Parliament, Endre Tóth. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament suspended the immunity of Endre Tóth by 150 votes in favour, 30 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Miskolc District Court is the 22nd Bpk.759/2022/8. In his order No. 13, Parliamentary MP James asked for the suspension of the immunity of Mr.Péter on a private charge. This was handed over to the immunity committee under presidential authority for consideration. The immunity committee is H/1115. Mr Péter Jakab presented a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I shall give the floor to János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2022-09-26-75	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It's a private charge. We're talking about a crime of slander on Facebook. In this case, too, the Committee has followed the practice of recommending to the Parliament, in the case in question, that it not suspend the immunity of the Member. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-09-26-76	Thank you very much. I am now going to ask Mr Peter James if he would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to live. Thank you very much. Then it's time for the decision. I would like to remind you, fellow Members, that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity should not be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of Parliamentary MP Peter James. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not suspend Mr.Péter Jakab's immunity by 15 votes in favour, 166 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Central District Court of Pest is the Court of Justice of the 13th Bpk.41.505/2022/3-I. In his order No. 13, Parliamentary MP James asked for the suspension of the immunity of Mr.Péter on a private charge. This was handed over to the immunity committee under presidential authority for consideration. The immunity committee is H/1116. Mr Péter Jakab presented a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I shall give the floor to János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal. Here you go.
u2022-09-26-77	Thank you, Mr. President. The events on Facebook happened here, too. It is a crime of slander; it is a private accusation, the debates within Jobbikon, which have been settled since then, since the Member has been independent. The committee has kept to its usual practice in such matters and recommends that Parliament not suspend the immunity of Peter James in that case.
u2022-09-26-78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to ask Congressman Peter James if he would like to speak. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I would remind you that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity will not be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of Parliamentary MP Peter James. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not suspend Mr.Péter Jakab's immunity by 15 votes in favour, 165 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Szeged District Court is the 19th Bpk.2201/2021/12. Mr János Pócs put forward a motion for the suspension of his immunity in the case of private indictment. This proposal has been submitted to the Committee on immunity in presidential power for consideration. The immunity committee is H/1117. Mr János Pócs presented a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I shall give the floor to János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2022-09-26-79	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Again, it's a crime of slander, so it's a private initiative. The crime scene, if any, also happens on Facebook. In keeping with our previously established practice, the Committee on Exemptions unanimously recommends that Parliament not suspend the immunity of Mr János Pócs in the case in question.
u2022-09-26-80	Thank you very much. I will ask Mr János Pócs if he wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much, you don't want to. Now it's time for the decision. I would remind you that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity should not be suspended by the Parliament. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to suspend immunity, a vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present is required. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of János Pócs. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not suspend the immunity of Mr János Pócs by 16 votes in favour, 164 votes against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that there was a motion to suspend the immunity of independent MP Ákos Hadházy on 12 September 2022 1.Bpk.192/2022/4/3. I'm a member of the Komlo District Court on a private charge of defamation. This was handed over to the immunity committee under presidential authority for consideration. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with disciplinary decisions. I would like to inform you that Mr. Speaker of the Parliament Act 46/D. Article 47 (2) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Acting under paragraph 1 (c), he ordered a reduction in the due fee of Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki DK. The Member requested that the immunity committee repeal the decision. The committee did not agree to the request of the representative. Next, the Parliament Act 51. On the basis of paragraph 7 (b), the Member requested that the Speaker's decision be annulled by the Parliament. [[17.00]] In view of this, the resolution rule of 148. Under paragraph 2 of Section H/1290, Mr Speaker submitted a proposal for a resolution. the same content as the previous decision to reduce the Member's due fee. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the proposal for a resolution, the related decision of the Speaker of the House, the representative's request in this regard, as well as the information provided by the President of the Committee on Exemptions, has already been made available to everyone on the website. In accordance with the provisions of the house rules, no proposal or Commission report may be submitted to amend the proposal for a decision. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that if the Speaker's decision is annulled by the Parliament, the Member's due fees will not be reduced, the Parliament Act 47. § 1 (paragraph 1 (c)), the proceedings against him shall be terminated. The Speaker's decision to reduce the fee is decided by the Parliament without discussion. I ask the Honourable Parliament, in its scope, the decision of the Speaker of the House to reduce the due fee of Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki is maintained by the H/1290. As per the proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Speaker's decision was maintained by 129 votes in favour, 50 votes against and one abstention. Dear House, I declare that the resolution house rule is 10/A. Pursuant to Article 7 of the Act, the oath papers of Members of Ander Balázs and Róbert Dudás were examined and found by Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Believing. Dear Parliament, I now call on notary Lajos Szűcs to present the previous decision.
u2022-09-26-81	The Parliament is the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. Act 51, hereinafter referred to as the Parliamentary Act. Acting in its powers under paragraphs 8 and 9 (b) of the Act of Parliament, László Sebian-Petrovszki, Member of the Parliament, shall be governed by Article 51 of the Act of Parliament. § 7 (b) on the request of the President of the National Assembly OE-42/276-1/2022. László Sebian-Petrovszki maintains his decision to reduce the honor fee of the MP, thereby reducing the honor fee of László Sebian-Petrovszki by HUF 3 949 200. [[Gergely Harvesto: Shame and shame! Dr. István Simicskó: Shadow Budget!]] Article 51 of the Parliamentary Act, acting in accordance with the powers set out in paragraphs 5 and 9 (b) of the Act of Parliament, László Sebian-Petrovszki § 7 (b) on the request of the President of the National Assembly OE-42/276-1/2022. László Sebian-Petrovszki maintains his decision to reduce the honor fee of the MP, thereby reducing the honor fee of László Sebian-Petrovszki by HUF 3 949 200. (Gergely Harvester: Shame and shame! Dr. István Simicskó: Shadow Budget!) (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2022-09-26-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I salute the yeller and the Honourable Parliament. It follows in line with the 11/2022 on the establishment of committees, the election of members and officials of the Parliament. [[V. 2.]] A decision to amend a decision. S/1289 submitted by the President You can find out more about this on the website. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the content of the personal proposal put forward by the President.
u2022-09-26-83	1. 11/2022 on the establishment of committees, election of members and officials of the Parliament Parliamentary resolution of 2 May, hereinafter referred to as 'the Parliamentary Decision', paragraph 1 is amended as follows: Parliament to the Committee on European Affairs Dávid Bedő, Momentum, instead of András Fekete-Győr, Momentum; to the Committee on Defence and Police Committee of Novák, Mi Hungary; to the Committee on Justice, Hajnalka Szabó, Jobbik, to its former membership seat in Balázs Ander, Jobbik; to the Committee on Budgets Hajnalka Szabó, Jobbik, to its former membership seat in Balázs Ander, Jobbik; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs Mr Márton Tompos, Momentum, elected as a member of the committee. 2. Point 2 of the Parliamentary Decision is amended as follows: Parliament elects Róbert Dudás, Jobbik, member of the Committee, to replace Noémi Végh, Jobbik, as a member of the Committee. 3. Point 4 of the Parliamentary Decision is amended as follows: the Parliament will elect Imre Horváth, Fidesz instead of Dr. Imre Pesti, Vice-President of the Committee, Balázs Ander, Jobbik, to replace Hajnalka Szabó, Jobbik, to replace him as Vice-President of the Committee. 4. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2022-09-26-84	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, First, on the basis of points 1, 2 and 4 of the proposal, we decide on the election of the members of the committee, and then, according to point 3 of the proposal, we decide on the Commission official from among the members of the committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament that it is S/1289. The Committee shall elect the members of the Committees in accordance with the proposal No 1, 2 and 4. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected the members of the committees with 176 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament that it is S/1289. Point 3 of the Committee's proposal states that Mr Ander will elect Balázs as Vice-President of the Committee on Budgets from among the members of the Committee. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Ander Balázs as Vice-President of the Committee on Budgets by 176 votes to one vote against and without abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament that it is S/1289. Point 3 of the proposal No.3 states that Imre Pesti will be elected Vice-President of the Committee on Welfare from among the members of the Committee. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament elected Imré Pesti as Vice-President of the Committee on Welfare with 177 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, Now, at 5:08 p.m., we move on to interpellation negotiations. We're taking a two-minute technical break. [[Several Members leave the Chamber.]] (Sunning: 17.8.17.10) President: Mr Sándor Lezsák Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Szűcs)
u2022-09-26-85	Dear Parliament, The leaders of the Fidesz and KDNP groups have informed me that I/1231. and I/1232. I/1228 and I/1228 respectively. The request for interpellation No.1 has been withdrawn and the interpellation submitted by these factions will not be discussed on this day of the meeting. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister: "Where has the past 12 years brought the country?" It's an address. At the request of Prime Minister Antal Rogán, Minister of Cabinet, who is competent and competent on the subject, will respond to the interpellation at the request of Csaba Dömötör. It is for Congressman Gergely Arató to take the floor.
u2022-09-26-86	Thank you very much. Dear House, The fact that Prime Minister gave the State Secretary of the Ministry of Lying the opportunity to respond shows what you think of the country's problems, not to help this country, but only to suppress the government propaganda on this occasion. But I'm gonna try to see if the Secretary of State can answer the question honestly once and for all. I would like to start with, perhaps we all know that Hungary is in a lot of trouble, perhaps even the government knows. When a pensioner comes to me in Kőbánya and tells me that after a worked life, he has to choose, because if he pays the rent, then he doesn't have money for medicine and food; when a mother tells me in Kispesten that she can't buy fruit for her child, as she used to, because she can't afford it anymore, then we feel that Hungary is in trouble, that there is a need for change. And please don't come with the usual boring propaganda speeches, you did this. They've been ruling for 12 years, not the World Bank, not Brussels, not the Gyurcsány government, you've been ruling for the last 12 years. This is where they put the country. Food prices have increased by one and a half times, the price of electricity is double, the price of gas is seven times higher, the burden of ditchings is multiple, and I could continue this line indefinitely. And you know, when someone can't pay the rent, they don't comfort you that you always have a propaganda voice about Brussels, sanctions, world conspiracy, America. [[John Lazarus: But why are you shouting?!]] Everyone is always to blame, but they cannot take their own responsibility. Let us say openly that this country has no government responsible for its own actions. Of course, I can't say that you don't think of anyone and leave everyone on the side of the road because you're the ones you're thinking about. They raised the Prime Minister's salary three times, increased the salary of the ministers, increased the salary of the State Secretarys. Well, they've been taken care of, they're holding their hands. You know, when it comes to the others, when it comes to people who are cold in unheated homes, who can't buy good-quality food, who can't afford medicine, then their message is, the Prime Minister says that they should make more money. Well, thank you very much, but shame on you. Shame on you for this cynicism, and be ashamed of where you've sent this country in 12 years. 'Cause even though he's gonna say the propaganda speeches about war and sanctions again, you did this, it's an Orbán overhead increase, orbán price rise, orbán social disaster. It's your responsibility. Have you thought about that? [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-09-26-87	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör.
u2022-09-26-88	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister of Shadows, I don't want to answer the personal part, but we're in Parliament. In his interpellation, he asked where twelve years of government had put the country. I think it's an important question, and it has to be reported from time to time. I would like to start by building a work-based economy instead of an aid-based economy. Instead of 12 percent of you, we reduced unemployment to 3.5 percent. There have been significant wage increases, real wages have increased by over 70 percent, the minimum wage has been increased nearly three times. We've expanded the family support system to an unprecedented extent, increased the size of national wealth by 67 percent, and, to say the other thing, we've been curbing energy prices all along. If you were to be asked in the market, perhaps you mentioned this example, then I suggest you tell me that this government has held on to the reduction of the rent all along, but you have never supported it. They didn't support him when he was introduced, they said it was stupid. That's what your party president, the Shadow Prime Minister, said. During the election campaign, it was also made clear that world market prices do not need to be stopped at the border, so they also said that this measure would be abolished. They also said that this whole thing is a stupid thing to quote. And if you were to say that it was a long time ago, a few years ago or a few months ago, let's see who was appointed shadow economic minister. The Shadow Minister of Economy would wipe out the pricestops, the gas stop. He argues that Hungarians could pay double such petrol prices, otherwise drive by public transport or by bicycle, he said this cynical life management advice. So when it comes to matters of livelihood, feel free to say at your personal meetings that this government has insisted on limiting energy prices, if it's up to you, and it wouldn't be like that. As a matter of fact, who can remain in office, because in the interpellation he also referred to this, which he gave up, is always decided by the electorate. The voters decided in Miskolc, despite the great forces they marched, and the voters also decided on 3 April. That is why the Prime Minister is called Viktor Orbán, and that is why you are in the shadow government. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-09-26-89	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman if he'll take the answer.
u2022-09-26-90	Of course, the voters have also decided in Újpesten, Mr Secretary of State always forgets about these. What I'm trying to say to you is that we're the ones you're asking for a reduction in the rent, while it was you who voted, let alone before the election, but even after the election, to protect the rent reduction, and then raised the price of gas seven times and doubled the price of electricity. Secretary of State, you are not even there to deal with the problems to face reality. Either they lie to you, which I don't believe, or they want to lie to us, and we don't buy it. We created the shadow government because if there is no irresponsible opposition, there is no irresponsible government, then we have to show that... [[Intercoms from the pro-government ranks.]] I was right, so if there is an irresponsible government, then the opposition cannot be irresponsible, we must demonstrate that there is a responsible, capable alternative. Today, we made our first proposals that would really help people, and I will be curious what Fidesz will say about them. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-09-26-91	Thank you very much, Congressman, who did not accept the answer. I will inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our sitting today. Dear Parliament, Imre Komjáthi, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. Why not help small pensioners? How much longer do pensioners have to lend to the government? It's an address. [[Imre Komjathi is not in the Chamber.]] I look around, Congressman Komjathi... [[Dr. Gurmai Zita: Change please.]] Then, unfortunately, in accordance with the house rules, I must consider it withdrawn by the congressman. Dear Parliament, Szabolcs Szabó, representative of Momentum, submitted an interpellation [[Szabolcs Szabó: I'm here.]] to the Minister of Technology and Industry: How much is the renewal of the Csepel and Ráckeveian heat pushed out by the restrictions? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[17.20]] The interpellation will be answered on behalf of the Prime Minister by Mr János Lázár, Minister for Construction and Investment, who is competent and competent on the subject. Mr Szabolcs Szabó has the floor.
u2022-09-26-92	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. It's an honor to have you answer right away, Minister. This isn't the first time I've asked you, it wasn't your area. Usually, when I asked questions, Mr. Fónagy, as the competent secretary of state at the time, responded in Csepel cases, in the case of the Csepel HÉV and the Ráckeve HÉV. I'm really glad that's since then because I got that I'm the bad guy who wants the subway because it's not good for the government to go in this direction. I was happy to see that the project was in very good professional hands at BFK under the leadership of Dávid Vitézy. They even gave me personal information. I was happy. But compared to this, it was surprising that before the elections the public procurement procedure was withdrawn for vehicles and that we heard very strange news since the elections. First, the BFK was renamed, and then, if we hear it right, a significant part of the colleagues working on the subway project seemed to have been transferred from there. I have even heard news that a certain range of authorisation procedures has been suspended. This is a vital issue in the lives of Csepel and Soroksár, so in the life of my constituency, because even here in the period after Covid, when public transport was not fully restored, there are still 60,000 people per day on the two HÉV lines, on about five decades of trains, and on a track that is more or less refurbished. So there should be new fittings, renovated track, and this should be extended. We are now fully in agreement with the government and everyone in this country, together with the profession, that it must be extended to Calvin Square and a subway 5 must be built. If we started this project right now, say that the procurement procedure for the purchase of vehicles would be rewritten, it would take about three years for the first train to appear. It's about the same as it used to be on the tramtrain, and there's plenty of experience, Minister, that it's complicated. This is also, in many ways, a unique vehicle that should be designed here. If we were to start all the licensing procedures for the renewal and extension of existing tracks right now, I would say, all the way to Calvin Square, well, it is a very optimistic estimate of 2030. So every day slipping only results in travel using even worse, even older infrastructure, and then we have to travel not on five, but on six decades of trains. That is why I ask, and the voters of Csepel and Soroksár are asking me all the time, and therefore I am asking Minister how this project is going to stand, and how the cuts will result in a slippage in this project. Can you expect such a slip? Thank you very much.
u2022-09-26-93	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2022-09-26-94	Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, First of all, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to reassure all my constituents in Budapest, representing the government, that, contrary to the malicious news, Budapest and the development of Budapest's capital, the development of the nation's capital will continue to be a priority for the government, and by the capital, I always mean hundreds of thousands or millions of people living in the agglomeration. As the last part of the speech by the former Prime Minister, we are a political community which, despite the difficulties, never gives up strategic objectives, in which the Prime Minister indicated, in the first place, the improvement of the country's transport infrastructure, not by accident. We have a number of transport policy objectives in the years ahead, even in the ten-year horizon, not only with the 31,000 kilometres of roads remaining in Hungarian state treatment, but also with regard to the development of the fixed track. This work requires the joint thinking of several ministries and several Members of Parliament, as it will now be decided in the next six months what the European Commission will support and what it will not. As you know, these are among the most expensive investments, more expensive than the road, but there is a complete consensus between us in its social usefulness. What I can tell you is that, on the one hand, in keeping with the government's promise to the electorate, it ordered the renovation plans for these HÉV lines in 2019, partly for the intervention of our fellow Members of Parliament. By June 2022, the authorisation plans were completed. We are talking here about three HÉVs, as we are also talking about the Szentendre HÉV, in which my fellow Member of Parliament, Eszter Vitalyos, is also involved as a Member of Parliament in the region. Following the completion of these licensing plans, the Government also decided to initiate the acquisition of official contributions. In Hungarian, I can guarantee by representing the government that we plan the complete renovation, extension and extension of the three HÉV lines, until export plan and official authorisation. From here, however, two debates are opened. One is that we are in a financial condition, also because of the need to provide a reserve for war, and because of the discussions and preparation of agreements with the European Union, so that the financing side is one of the issues. At the moment, I would like to give you a clear answer to this programme, the financing side of this large-scale fixed-track HÉV programme is not available. So there is not enough money in the country's budget, and there is no agreement yet with the European Commission that would provide this resource. In the event that we agree with the European Commission on the development of the fixed track, an intellectual debate is opened about the fact that we are developing a fixed track only in the central region in Hungary, or there are projects in the countryside, you mentioned an excellent project in Szeged-Hódmezővásárhely, and I could say dozens of other county-righted cities and suburban lines for their agglomeration that might be worth funding the European Union. The National Assembly will have to assume that approximately HUF 1300-1400 billion is available for the transport development programme. If we take these three HÉV lines seriously and do it for the next 8-10 years, this will exhaust most of the framework, along with other related transport investments in Budapest. This is not contrary to the government's ideas, but we need to clarify that if we concentrate a significant part of development resources on Budapest, what remains of rural development, and from what source we can ensure the conditions for road transport or rail transport of our fellow citizens living in the countryside. So my answer is to take it to the end of the planning, there will be permits and plans, and we will discuss both in the Parliament and in the professional forums, which solution to choose, the development of the capital agglomeration or the countryside should be a priority. It's not a decision yet. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-09-26-95	Thank you very much, Minister Lazarus. I'll ask the congressman if he'll take the minister's answer.
u2022-09-26-96	Thank you very much for the floor. Thank you for the answer, which was clear and clear, and I have always respected this in Minister. What I would like to add first is that if the negotiations in Brussels require background assistance in lobbying, whatever we are happy to do, there are momentary MEPs who might be able to help with that. I trust that there is, by the way, as much resources as possible for fixed-track transport. And I can only encourage the Minister and the Government to provide adequate resources for developments in Budapest in the future. Really, these fittings will simply stop if they reach six decades. Obviously, in this case, I am obliged to say, after such an answer, that I cannot accept this now, because we want this to happen now, because we have seen a lot of plans, but I say that we have the willingness to cooperate on this issue. Thank you very much.
u2022-09-26-97	So you cooperate, but you don't accept the answer. [[Szabolcs Szabó says no.]] Do you accept the answer now?
u2022-09-26-98	I literally said, Mr. President, that I would not accept the answer. In order to advance the project later, we will be happy to cooperate. Thank you very much.
u2022-09-26-99	Okay, thank you very much. The congressman didn't accept the answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place today at our meeting. Dear Parliament, Imre Komjáthi, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. Why not help small pensioners? How much longer do pensioners have to lend to the government? It's an address. At the request of the Prime Minister, Minister for Finance Mihály Varga, who is competent on the subject, will respond to the interpellation by Mr András Tállai. You have the floor, Congressman Imre Komjathi. [[The sound system isn't working.]] Microphone! [[Trustful Dezső: Card! Imre Komjathi inserts his card into the voting machine.]] Let's reboot the clock. [[It's happening.]] You have the floor, Congressman. [[17 .30]]
u2022-09-26-100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Hungary is on the verge of an unprecedented livelihood disaster with continuous increases, double-digit inflation, dew-weak forints and ripped society. The government has cut back on the overhead, and despite its promise, it has passed most of the energy price on to the people. While governments in other countries of Europe are increasing the share of companies and people's income, the Orbán government not only increases prices unduly but also collects huge increases in income from the population. It is a particularly heavy burden for all those with low incomes, especially if they cannot reduce their energy consumption because their homes are poorly insulated. As a result of brutal inflation, pensions have also been devalued, causing a serious livelihood crisis for those affected. The government is doing nothing, and it is likely that it will not give extra support to pensioners before November, who will have to wait another month and a half. But until then, you have to pay the bills, in the meantime you have to buy food, and don't give me God, shoes and coats. In view of this, the Hungarian Socialist Party proposes the following. The 13th month's benefit and the pension premium are also allocated to the same amount from the available framework. Pensioners receiving an average pension or a pension of less than or equal to 10 thousand forints per month will receive a pension voucher during the heating period. The rate of the annual January pension increase shall be established on the basis of the annual pensioner consumer price index for August of the year preceding the year in question, as notified by the HCSO. Thus, in January next year, pensioners will not receive the 5.2 percent increase proposed by the Fidesz government, but the 15.7 percent increase. The annual increase shall be corrected quarterly on the basis of the pensionable index of consumer prices calculated by the HCSO. The latter two steps would allow us to put an end to the process in which pensioners lend to the government for months. I look forward to your reply. [[Rebecca Szabó and Dr. Zita Gurmai applaud.]]
u2022-09-26-101	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2022-09-26-102	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government is committed to the preservation of pensions and pursues a responsible economic policy, and what it has promised in 2010 has been achieved every year, which was to protect and protect the purchasing value of pensions. As a result of this policy, pensions have increased by 59 percent since 2010 and their purchasing value has now improved by 20 percent with the restoration of 13th month pensions. Let's see how this happened, for example, this year. The pensioners got their 13th month pension back, 2.5 million pensioners worth HUF 370 billion. At the beginning of the year, they received a pension increase of 5 per cent, which the government then received in July, given that inflation was higher, plus 3.9 per cent, so a pension increase of 8.9 per cent has been made since 1 January this year. And the government, which was laid down and promised by the law, will also meet this year, which is about supplementing pensions in November in November, taking into account the fact inflation from 1 to 8 months and expected inflation until the end of the year, with a pension supplement going back to 1 January. This is expected to affect some 2.4 million pensioners. As regards the pension premium, it examines whether the conditions are met. If the legal conditions are met, pensioners can also rely on the pension premium this year. Thank you for your suggestions, but the government is on its own path with regard to retirement policy. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-09-26-103	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2022-09-26-104	I can't accept the answer because I didn't get an answer. I have received no answer as to why our proposals cannot be adopted; professionally sound proposals, financially sound proposals. Mr. Secretary of State classified the numbers, but there are people behind these numbers. To me, my father taught me, who was a tractor and combiner, that bread was sacred, and that bread had to be on the table in the poorest period. The price of bread has increased by 66 percent since January. You don't help pensioners get bread on the table for a number of our honest-to-be-gold countrymen. The pensioners are lending to the government. That's what we wanted to change, and for everyone to have bread on the table. You don't accept that. If the MSZP were in government, we would introduce this, these proposals would be introduced. They should have a conscience about what they do and what they accept. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita applauds.]]
u2022-09-26-105	He didn't accept the answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our sitting today. Dear Parliament, Brenner Koloman, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. Will the Fidesz government immediately help the situation of Hungarian education? It's an address. Congressman Brenner Koloman has the floor.
u2022-09-26-106	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Secretary of State. Hungary's Fundamental Law, Article X (1) also declares the freedom of learning, and I quote: to obtain the highest possible level of knowledge. So this is our main source of law. But we need teachers for that. In addition, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said this in a good-welcome letter of 2013 and every successful graduation exam of that year, and I would also quote this literally: "You are certainly aware that the government started to reorganize the Hungarian education system in 2010. As he writes, the aim was to provide quality and quality education in the service of young Hungarians, where the work invested, diligence and knowledge will be paid off. We agree perfectly with these sentences. Dear Secretary of State, In the last 12 years, let's say, what concrete steps have been taken to really modernise the Hungarian education system and the XX. Should we adapt it to the challenges of the century? So what does the Fidesz government intend to do to make the teaching profession attractive again, not to involve lifelong deprivation, resignation and humiliation, as they are the ones teaching the youth of the future. I would also like to note here that the fact that, for many months now, the pedagogical society has signalled its dissatisfaction with civil disobedience, and now with a national strike on 5 October, I think that it shows as much as possible the failure of the Fidesz government in this case in its anti-knowledge and intellectual policy for the last 12 years. As a responsible conservative party, we express our solidarity with teachers, because teachers are responsible intellectuals and not subjects to us. And we find it outrageous that threatening letters have been formulated by Fidesz district leaders, in which they threatened to dismiss teachers in the event of their involvement in civil disobedience. The point is that, in a system where the legislation has virtually made it impossible for teachers to strike, civil disobedience, such as in the '80s, constitutes a stand for civil rights, in our opinion. So I ask Mr Secretary of State to accept our proposals to transfer funds to education immediately, to raise wages by 50 percent, to pay for heating schools, because in this crisis, the real conservative crisis management is if they do so. Thank you for your meaningful reply. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]] [[17.40]]
u2022-09-26-107	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2022-09-26-108	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think such hypocrisy rarely happens for Jobbik, too. A few minutes ago, we voted on Parliament's contribution to deciding more quickly than the rules of the house rules on the adoption of the laws of hundreds of billions of forints needed to raise the wages of teachers, and the Hungarian opposition did not contribute to this. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: We voted, Mr. Secretary. We voted!]] You have not consented, honourable Member. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Jobbik voted!]] This is something to say from all the left-wing parties, and you published this on Facebook, and you wrote a similar paragraph there:, We need EU funds right now, Hungarian citizens don't have time to wait for EU funds, our country needs this resource now. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, While your party president is working in Brussels to ensure that these funds don't arrive. For example, you say things in September that the European Commission has been threatened by Parliament to withdraw confidence from the President of the Commission and from the current Commission if you accidentally agree with Viktor Orbán. Your party president is threatening that if the Commission would still provide Hungary with the resources needed to raise the extra salary of Hungarian teachers above 30 per cent, you would want to withdraw confidence from the Commission as a whole. Not to mention that the sanctions policy, which makes it difficult for everyone to live, is being supported. Your party president also says that sanctions need to be stepped up and that we need to pursue sanctions policy against Russia, which is very right, and that there may be a consequence of a decline on the supply side in terms of energy. Or that it will not be a problem, he says that it is part of it, but nevertheless, the sanction is very correct, and this must be continued. Honourable Congressman, Indeed, many people are working to ensure that all schools are well heated this winter, but thanks to the war and the misguided sanctions, what was natural last year, before last year, and before that, it is essential for everyone that schools, let's say they were heated, are now creating additional difficulties precisely because of one of the harshest sanctions policies taken by your party president. The state will do everything in its power, and it will ensure that it only costs a little more resources now than it did before, so that schools can be heated. I understand that your party president, during the Crimean war, expressed a fully Russian-friendly position, and is now extremely compensated in Brussels for his position against Russia, and even if there is no gas in his own country, he supports anti-Russia sanctions, just so that he does not punish Hungary because of his moral error earlier, honourable Member. If it were up to the Hungarian left, these resources would not arrive in Hungary this year, next year or the next year, and our aim is to increase the wages of teachers by more than 30 per cent, and it would not happen if it were up to you in Brussels. Honourable Congressman, In recent years, if I look at the developments, 4576 preschool and school-service places, so school and establishment started some modernisation, some modernisation. You said that Hungarian schools are not modernizing. You can go to 4576 places in Hungary and see for yourself what improvements have been made. You continue to underestimate and underestimate the performance of Hungarian schools, while in 2022 only 2 gold, 15 silver and 22 bronze medals were won by Hungarian students, three students received a special prize, and our IT team also won a bronze medal in the team competition. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] They bring very good results, and sometimes you can expect recognition, not just criticism. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-09-26-109	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2022-09-26-110	Thank you. Mr President, I cannot accept Mr State Secretary's reply, which I must regard as false and cynical, because it is a choice of value to transfer to education according to conservative policy in the Hungarian budget. Now, the teachers need the 50 percent raise right away. The fact that you point to Brussels while your Prime Minister Viktor Orbán voted seven times out of seven against sanctions is called the sanctions king behind his back, and you now give no wage increase to the Hungarian educator society on the grounds of sanctions, I think it is your shame. I cannot accept your answer. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-09-26-111	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our sitting today. Dear Parliament, Tamás Mellár, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Technology and Industry:. What about this year's priority research topics and researchers working on them? It's an address. At the request of the Minister for Culture and Innovation, János Csák, who is responsible for the subject, will respond to the interpellation on behalf of the Prime Minister. You have the floor, Congressman Tamás Mellar.
u2022-09-26-112	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Miklós Maróth, Chairman of the Eötvös Loránd Research Network, recently wrote a letter to the research sites concerned, in which he said that the prizes won in the programme "Developed research topics" cannot be launched in a HUF 1 billion envelope, because there is not enough resources for this, as there has been an increase in overhead costs and inflation in two figures. I, in my interview with Minister Palkovics, gave this interpellation to Minister Palkovic, and it would have come from the fact that I referred to it here in the text that the Minister stated in an interview that the Eötvös Loránd Research Network works better than in the previous structure, that we raised their budget from 19 billion to 39 billion, that no one would tell them what to search for, and that they could decide on the use of double resources, so I quote him. It also mentions that domestic R &amp; D expenditures have generally doubled, and since 2010, the number of researchers in Europe has increased most since 2010. Well, there is a problem here right away because according to the data of the KSH, 35 700 people worked in research and development in 2010 and 51 814 in 2020, but a significant part of them did not work in state applications, in research facilities funded by companies. And let us not forget that in 2018, when the restructuring took place, the research network of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences at that time fell, it was HUF 2 billion, so it was a significant loss. What has been seen in recent times is that, according to an old, proven fidesz method, in areas where they want to make a transformation, first, they take the money away, then they go through the transformation, then they give extra money, and then they refer to how well the reform works, because there is much more money now, but in fact, there is no more money overall, and the operation is not improving either. So what I would like to ask you, Madam Secretary, is what will happen to the applications that have just been rejected in the programme of the "Executed research topics" that have just been rejected. You can expect some sort of compensation and why these funds had to be transferred within your own budget once the research money was doubled. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Are you also planning to stop further proposals? Thank you very much.
u2022-09-26-113	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Eszter Vitalyos.
u2022-09-26-114	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I am aware that it will never be acceptable for the Balliberal Circles to transform the system of Hungarian scientific research and higher education, because, as you mentioned, the process marked by the name of Minister László Palkovics has thoroughly upset the warm standing water that has cemented various interests and positions for decades. Nevertheless, I will try the impossible, and I will make an attempt to convince you that this transformation has served to improve the international competitiveness of Hungarian R &amp; D and higher education. To do so, as you have mentioned, we have indeed used the well-established, old fidesz method of raising the budget for this to a significant extent. [[17.50]] I can only confirm the words of Minister László Palkovics quoted by you: in the year of the establishment of the Eötvös Loránd Research Network, in 2019 it worked with direct budget support of HUF 17 billion, and in 2020 we increased the operating support of the research institute network by HUF 11 billion. By the way, this increased support also allowed research wages to increase by an average of 30 per cent from the second half of 2020. Operating support for the research institute network increased by HUF 22 billion in 2021. Thanks to this increased funding, they have received budget support of nearly HUF 37 billion per year since 2021, while the total ELKH has received budget support of nearly HUF 50 billion. Honourable Congressman, Let me remind you that the slowly institutionalising system of the R &amp; D and innovation area has not been a success story until 2010, as it has not brought a turn for competitiveness in the Hungarian economy. In terms of growth on the basis of knowledge and innovation, Hungary has been relatively behind even its direct regional competitors in this period, but it can actually be said that in the previous ten to fifteen years too. In essence, the change of regime allowed R &amp; D expenditure to grow in one place and reached around 1 percent of GDP. Today, however, the Eötvös Loránd Research Network is one of the most important actors in the Hungarian research and development and innovation sector in Hungary and is a competitive researcher in the neighbouring countries, researchers from 11 research centres and 7 research institutes, as well as 116 supported research teams in universities and other public institutions carry out basic and applied research in the most diverse fields of mathematics, science, life sciences, humanities and social sciences, and launch new research topics and boost the development of successful research projects. If it's a fidesz model, we're proud to do it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-09-26-115	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I ask Congressman Mellar to accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2022-09-26-116	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I cannot accept the answer because none of my three questions have been answered by the Secretary of State. It also did not answer whether the 11 billion HUF bonus had not reached the cost increase at that time, and why research had to be pulled out. Then he referred to innovations here. I would like to ask him, please tell me that if the number of innovations has increased significantly, what percentage of Hungarian exports can be attributed to high-tech industries. Because if this were at least 1 percent compared to the previous zero, I might even accept this answer, but I am afraid that, in vain, our competitiveness and high-tech exports in Hungary do not exist, so I cannot accept this answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-09-26-117	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our sitting today. Dear Parliament, István Szabadi, representative of Mi Hazank, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Interior:. Who has access to our health data? It's an address. Congressman István Szabadi has the floor.
u2022-09-26-118	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, The European Union launched the European Health Data Space programme in May this year, in which any information on our health is planned to be published within five years if we use health care. Only one of the aims of the cross-border sharing of health data is to have immediate access to our health data within the EU if we need our health data. However, it is a secondary objective and I believe that the most important aim is to use aggregate health information for so-called projects of general interest, such as scientific research, pharmaceuticals or policy making. The European Health Data is planned to be established by linking national health databases, based in Hungary on the Electronic Health Service Provider Space, which operates from 1 November 2017, which means the ESZT, which contains all the information on our health status, and may contain such information from June 2020. Health data is considered sensitive personal data, so-called special data, which we have ourselves, but we can only set access restrictions in the ESZ in the context of digital self-determination. So, for example, we cannot delete data, and we do not have the option, which is contrary to Article 17 of the GDPR. The National Hospital Directorate-General operating the ESZT shall provide data on our health data stored in the ESZT in an unidentified manner based on the consent of the data subject or, in the case specified by law, in a manner which is suitable for identification. Such a statutory case is the special legal order, which is valid until 1 November on account of the emergency declared due to the Russian-Ukrainian war, and during that time the provisions on health crisis care should be applied automatically. My question therefore concerns which Member States have been provided with information on cross-border health care in the EES; who have access to our health data uploaded to the electronic disease register and the pandemic registry; until 31 January 2020 the operational staff and their working organisation have used our health data for what purpose, who have been entrusted with their processing and for what purpose until 31 January 2020. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Selling our health data and how much for foreign pharmaceutical and vaccine companies [[The president's ringing again.]] where the proceeds went. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-09-26-119	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister.
u2022-09-26-120	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, we all learned the name of the EEW primarily during the epidemic, and I think that most of us have the application on our mobile phones, which includes our protection card, which many of us have thus learned, but also earlier, as you said, when the e-recepts were first released, perhaps many people knew. 800,000 e-recipients are added to the system every day. This is a great help, because the doctor will fill the recipe in the digital space, and we will not have to go to the pharmacy with paper, but we will also be able to replace the recipe with our ID. We've been waiting a long time, we can't lose the prescription, I think it's important. Anyone who asks can get a prescription certificate. So this is a very good and very modern system, in other developed countries, there is not such a modern digital record of everything that happens to us, because, as you said, here you might want to delete data from the ESZ, but there are data on your diseases, your treatments, so that if anything happens later, you can see what medications you are taking, what sensitivity you have, what interventions you have. This will help us heal everyone as soon as possible. I think this is a huge step forward in Hungary. I myself took part in an international conference here in Budapest where they came from a lot of countries, how our digital health system works, because it is a good example for them, and they would like to put it in their own country. So I think we should be proud of that. What you're referring to is a system that is about to be sharpened, as regards possible foreign data use. What's this about? If someone is in an accident or gets sick abroad, how can their data in Hungary get to the operator there; if you want to replace medicines abroad, how can you replace your medicine. So it provides the possibility that if someone moves freely within the Union, if there is any problem with it, this information, which is available in a Hungarian hospital, is obviously available with a slightly more complicated IT process, but also for a foreign doctor. This will buy us time, get to know the medical history better, and it will make it even more difficult for people abroad to tell us exactly what previous treatments they had, but in a digital way, the findings may be more visible to everyone, so that we can help them either with drug substitution or with medical treatment. So these, I think, are very good and beneficial things. [[18.00]] Of course, in relation to your access, everyone allows you to have such additional access to your data, if you do not allow it, it will not be released. You have also raised data protection concerns here. Everyone can see perfectly that the ESZT has a separate surface, where everyone can set up which data to handle, who can see, so we have tried to make the most of our efforts to make sure that everyone feels that their data is safe. So if you don't want to be accessed later, they won't be able to access it. Of course, this may complicate the treatment itself a little afterwards. So everyone's data is secure, the data processing of the EEST complies with the strictest EU and domestic laws, and no one's data can fall into unauthorized hands. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-09-26-121	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2022-09-26-122	Thank you very much. I cannot accept the answer, Mr Secretary of State, given that, if we do not currently receive information about precisely who has access to our health and personal data stored in the ESzt through the National Hospital Directorate-General, there is no transparent right management after the establishment of the European Health Data Space, which could pose a national security risk. The Government of Hungary plans to develop and exploit health data assets and establish a data processing centre for health research in the context of the digitalisation of health. It is therefore clear that, like the EU, it plans to build a separate business line for health data stored in the EES. The reason is that we can limit access to our data in digital self-determination, but I still have concerns that we do not have the opportunity to delete certain data in this system, and I still do not think it is correct. Thank you very much.
u2022-09-26-123	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our sitting today. Dear Parliament, Mr László Kordás, representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance. I'm sorry, I was wrong. László Keresztes is next. Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Technology and Industry: When does he act, and exactly what steps does the government plan to take to save the water utility sector that is on the brink of collapse? It's an address. Congressman László Keresztes has the floor.
u2022-09-26-124	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I think that there can be no debate about the critical situation of the future of drinking water supply in Hungary, and the water utilities sector is in a critical situation. We can say that the sector is practically on the verge of collapse. We know that there have been very significant problems already before 2010, but the situation has been extremely difficult due to the lack of measures and failed government decisions. After 2010, the number of malfunctions in the water utility system doubled, today 22 percent of the drinking water produced is drained virtually without use due to the extremely poor pipe network. The lack of resources for maintenance and replacement work is now estimated at approximately HUF 3000 billion over the 15-year horizon. In 2017, the County City Association declared the situation of the sector critical. In recent years, we have not seen any substantive measures taken by the government, but instead, a blackmail process has now been launched, which basically sends a message to the municipalities that anyone who does not hand over to the government, who does not own the water supply, will not receive any help for free. We have good reason to fear that since the government does not offer a solution option and does not present a source, it is not the solution they intend to offer, but the government is preparing for some kind of outsourcing by overwriting a very important principle. We have not seen a professional concept on the part of the government for years, there is no really a policyr who has responded in writing or in word in the past, there is no appropriate coordination body that would see a huge infrastructure so nationalised, there is no basic information in the Ministry's possession of the real problem of renovating the water utility system, and most importantly, you are nationalising the water utility assets, but you have not planned the funds in parallel. Hundreds of billions are missing here. The president of TÖOSZ, the mayor of the local government association, could only express his hope that the government wanted to keep this critical infrastructure in national hands, which is extremely important. We can see that Budapest, Pécs, Szeged, Érd, Szombathely, Baja, Nagykanizsa has decided not to hand over the water supply to the government, or even to the municipality of Debrecen. The mayor of Debrecen Fideszes said that water management is a strategic plant which cannot be released from the hands of the municipality. My question, Madam Secretary, is how do you intend to manage the maintenance and replacement of this infrastructure if there is no funds in the budget. Do you really think that, to maintain a system of drinking water for about three million people, they will not provide state resources or support? I would like a very, very clear answer from the government. It is a very important principle, as we say, that the water utility must remain in the hands of the state, national, and essentially local government and state, so it must remain in national hands. Can you deny the assumptions that the government is planning to outsource the water utilities sector? Thank you in advance for your answers.
u2022-09-26-125	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Zsófia Koncz.
u2022-09-26-126	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Let me begin with the question that you have asked that utility assets are not being outsourced by the government to third parties and that this is an important part of national wealth. Let me remember that with those with whom you, your party, made an alliance, you caused huge problems before 2010, since practically all strategic companies were sold and privatised, practically . 94 and. 98, and then between 2002 and 2010 Hungarian public assets were squandered. Since 2010, we have been working to recover these companies in these strategic sectors and to be Hungarian-owned. We can talk about nearly 200 companies here. This must therefore be seen by selling strategic companies, power plants, energy networks, energy suppliers, gas reservoirs, mines, steel industry, food industry, machinery industry, construction materials manufacturing companies, banks, insurance companies, financial institutions, the only major international airport and national airline in the country, as well as the cargo business of MÁV. In practice, since 2010, state assets have increased by 67 percent, while we have paid off local government debts and saved nearly one million foreign exchange lenders. So I think that on this issue, there is nothing more committed than this government to the fact that this is a highly strategically important sector. As you said, in 2010, we took over the water utility sector in very poor condition. It should be pointed out that between 2018 and 20 we supported the reconstruction of water utilities with HUF 4.5 billion, and efficiency improvements with HUF 3.5 billion in 2019. From 2021 it has been possible for municipalities in difficulty and water utility providers owned by them to participate voluntarily in the National Waterworks Zrt. in an integrated process coordinated by the Government and in the autumn of 2022 State aid to water utility providers participating in the integration programme in order to maintain security of supply up to their losses in 2022. I also note that, thanks to the reduction in overhead costs, the public's burden on the use of water utilities has not increased since 1 July 13. Quantified: this means savings of approximately HUF 156 billion to the families until 21st century. So I ask the Member to support the Hungarian Government in this. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-09-26-127	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2022-09-26-128	Thank you, Mr. President. The privatisation procedures listed by the Secretary of State have been criticised here in Parliament many times, as we have also criticised that you have recently outsourced almost the entire Hungarian expressway network, which has also been organised in practically private hands for a long time. Dear Secretary of State, Indeed, the water utility system was in a difficult situation in 2010, but now it is in a much worse situation and according to the County City Association, it is practically on the brink of collapse and is in crisis. You are talking about HUF 3-4-5 billion in relation to my questions, and in recent years you have been able to contribute to maintenance resources annually, but here you would need about HUF 200 billion per year. Madam State Secretary, you have not reassured anyone, in a word, of what kind of budget you want to raise the hundreds of billions, the billions that are needed to maintain drinking water supply in Hungary in the medium term. Since I didn't get an answer, I can't accept that answer. Thank you very much. [[18.10]]
u2022-09-26-129	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The one-hour period is over, so we are moving to the next item on the agenda. Therefore, decisions will be taken to accept the answers to the aforementioned interpellations. Please take your seats. Gergely Arató, representative of DK, I/1200. No response was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 116 votes in favour, 30 votes against and one abstention. Imre Komjáthi, representative of MSZP, I/1212. No response was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 120 votes in favour, 35 votes against and one abstention. Szabolcs Szabó, representative of Momentum, I/1222. No response was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 124 votes in favour, 35 votes against and one abstention. Brenner Koloman, representative of Jobbik, I/1227. No response was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 125 votes in favour, 35 votes against and one abstention. Tamás Mellar, representative of the Dialogue, I/1221. No response was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 125 votes in favour, 36 votes against and one abstention. István Szabadi, representative of Mi Hazan, representative of I/1224. No response was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 127 votes in favour, 28 votes against and 1 abstention. Finally, Lóránt Keresztes, representative of LMP, I/1229. No response was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 125 votes in favour, 36 votes against and one abstention. Dear Parliament, We are moving on to our next item on the agenda. Before that, however, I would like to inform you that the House Rules of the Decision are 29. By exercising its authority under paragraph 3 (b) of paragraph 3 of Section A/844. Mr OE-42/435-1/2002. He refused on a serial number because the question violates the authority of the Parliament. (Believe Dezső in the notary seat) Replaced by Sándor Szabó.) Dear Parliament, I would also like to inform you that the leaders of the Fidesz and KDNP groups have informed you that A/1285, A/1286, A/1287. and A/1288. and A/1284 respectively. The number of immediate questions has been withdrawn and the immediate questions submitted by these factions will not be discussed at today's meeting. Dear Parliament, Ágnes Vadai and Olga Kálmán, representatives of DK, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think, Prime Minister? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2022-09-26-130	Thank you, Mr. President. Prime Minister, you've ruined the forint for the last 12 years. He took over the government at a price of EUR 270 in 2010 and reached a price higher than HUF 400. Putin's war probably didn't even exist in thought when the euro exchange rate was already over 350 HUF. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) So, please stop with the conspiracy theories that the Russians are actually fighting not against Ukraine, but against the Hungarian forints, because we can see exactly the consequences of the ruined forints in stores: the thousand forints of bread, the eight hundred forints of margarine, the hundred forints of eggs per piece and the pricelessness of food in general. According to Eurostat research, Hungary is the world record of food price increases. Nowhere in the world has life become as expensive as ours. This is the result of his so-called government and the past 12 years. You did this to the Hungarians. But can you answer why you indirectly caused even higher food prices? You took the reduced fuel prices for corporate cars and freight forwarders, increased the price of motorway stickers by 70 percent, and imposed a special food tax on several types of food [[Bence Rétvári: His name is Chipsado!]] All of this raises and generates food price increases. I understand it's just one of the many restrictions for you. I understand that what is bad for Hungarian families is good for you, because the more expensive shopping is, the more VAT revenue is. I understand that you want to take the money from the Hungarians that you have not received from the Union because of the thefts of the last 12 years. [[Bence Rétvári: Subway 4.]] I only have one question: how long will the increase in food prices continue with every existing instrument. When will this end, Prime Minister? Thank you. [[Applause from the DK Group.]]
u2022-09-26-131	Welcome, fellow Members. Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The Prime Minister is next for two minutes. Here you go, Prime Minister. You have the floor.
u2022-09-26-132	On the question, honourable Member, when the food price increase will end, my answer is that when sanctions are imposed. As soon as the sanctions are over, food prices will fall immediately. As to the value of the forint, you are a representative of a party I am obliged to remind you that there was a time in Hungary, you were in the government when there were 1 million 100,000 mortgage loans. Most of this was in foreign currency, in the currency of a country that we never wanted to join, and these foreign exchange loans destroyed people. So I suggest that the government should be more careful about the weakness of the forint, given that the bulk of the currency you have brought together had to be cleaned up by the Hungarian government, which was founded in 2010. [[18.20]] As far as the exchange rate of the forint is concerned, we should note that there is little else we can do, that if the dollar is stronger than the euro, it will automatically weaken the forint. That's the situation today. If the euro were stronger, if the dollar could not strengthen against it, then our forint could be stronger. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-09-26-133	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is addressed to Congresswoman Olga Kálmán. Here you go.
u2022-09-26-134	Prime Minister, I would not be so proud that you cleaned up this mess by turning the EUR 270 into EUR 400-420. But you didn't answer my question about when the price of food would end. [[Noise on the pro-government side. Bence Rétvári: He started with it!]] I'll tell you. It will end when the Orbán government is over. That's why Klára Dobrev formed his shadow government so that our country could be a fair, democratic, listening to each other, a very, very strange expression for you to be a country. You destroyed the country. We're gonna fix this. You dragged Hungary into a livelihood crisis, and we're going to pull it out of it. You know, Prime Minister, there is only one obstacle at the moment: you and your government. Thank you. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-09-26-135	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister. You have the floor.
u2022-09-26-136	I am pleased that the Congresswoman promises to give each other an eyeful of governance, but I would like to note that it is difficult to keep an eye on one another while shooting out one's eyes. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I would like to remind you that between 2002 and 2010 you have had the opportunity to lead the country. I see you've formed a shadow steering wheel. When they ran the country, they didn't do it in the shade, they did it in the sun. For the sake of all of us, I suggest that you remain in the shadows. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-09-26-137	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Zsolt Molnár, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Why are they smearing? It's an address. Mr Zsolt Molnár has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-09-26-138	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, The Paks Nuclear Power Plant, whose long-term future I can now make more arguments than before, produces electricity at a price of HUF 12 per kilowatt hour. During the campaign, you promised not to increase the price of household electricity. That's what they said after the campaign. Compared to this, this fee was raised to HUF 70 above the average consumption. The Paks Nuclear Power Plant produces more than the population needs. It is also clear that the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is profitable. Therefore, there is no reason to raise this charge above the previous price of 36,6 HUF even above the average consumption. With such inflation, at such a euro exchange rate, this is a tribute, Prime Minister. I am a bona fide, but not a naive Member, so I believe that in the case of a proposal, it does not matter where it comes from, but what its content is; although it has come from an excellent place, from the co-chair of the MSZP. Therefore, we ask that you and your government take immediate action to restore public consumption above average consumption to 36,6 HUF electricity prices, as this is fair, and this is not considered a tribute. And, of course, we Hungarian social democrats have always been on the side of peace throughout history, always on the side of Hungarian families and on the side of social justice. That's what we expect from you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2022-09-26-139	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask the Prime Minister with respect for the answer. Here you go.
u2022-09-26-140	That sounded like a pro-government comment, but now there's no defecation in the government, and the majority of the government is stable on their feet. As far as Paks is concerned, I would like to ask you once again to support the extension of the Paks I nuclear power plant and to support the government's efforts to build the Paks II power plant. The price of electricity and gas was not linked by the Hungarian government, it is a failed policy of the European Union. As far as average consumption is concerned, we protect the overhead until the average consumption for all Hungarian families by providing HUF 181 thousand in support. And we can't give Paks I's electricity at cost because Paks I. doesn't cover 100 percent of the total Hungarian energy consumption, but only about one third of it. If we do have Paks II, there will be no reason for us to proceed as the MSZP did otherwise, I think it was benevolently suggested. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-09-26-141	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Mr Zsolt Molnár has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder.
u2022-09-26-142	Thank you, Mr. President. Speaking of football, the first half of the day means we're not doing well listening to your answer, so I'm gonna have to change my tactics. With all due respect, during this evening millions of Hungarian families will watch this fateful football match, under double tension. One of the tensions is group victory, which is very important to everyone who lives in this country. The other tension, on the other hand, is electricity, the checkman. I ask Prime Minister to change this, to allow the Hungarian families to worry only about becoming group winners and not about the fear of the checkman. Make sure, Prime Minister, that you can watch the football match at 36,6 HUF in the Puskás Arena. Go, Hungary! In the account fight: go, Hungarian families! Much depends on you, we look forward to your firm action. [[Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2022-09-26-143	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is due to the Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2022-09-26-144	Thank you very much. I think I agree with you. I can tell you that every Hungarian family receives a certain percentage of its energy consumption from the Hungarian government as a subsidy to the amount of HUF 181 thousand. We're gonna keep this. If we can improve this, for example, if sanctions are prevented or extended, we can also return to the earlier higher value. I ask the MSZP to support us in this. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-09-26-145	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Éva Sebők, representative of Momentum, wants to ask the Minister of Culture and Innovation an immediate question:. How exactly is the Minister concerned about the fertility rate? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Minister Eszter Vitalyos has appointed Secretary of State to respond to his absence. I respectfully ask you to accept the person who is responding, or you will personally ask the Minister for an answer.
u2022-09-26-146	I'll wait for the fellow Members to shut up.
u2022-09-26-147	Congresswoman, you have the opportunity to accept it or not.
u2022-09-26-148	I even have the opportunity to wait for the silence.
u2022-09-26-149	There's nothing else! Congresswoman, there's nothing else. That's what the house rules say you can do. Make a statement that you will accept it or not accept it.
u2022-09-26-150	I'll take it.
u2022-09-26-151	Thank you very much. Accordingly, it is for Mrs Éva Scarők to take the floor. Here you go.
u2022-09-26-152	Thank you very much. Many Hungarian companies do not like to employ women of childbearing age. This often occurs when women in their twenties are employed in black, gray, or forced to enter into fixed-term contracts. What measures are planned to reduce this? Excuse me, this is László Palkovics' territory. What measures are planned to ensure that public education is of such quality that parents do not have to carry children from 6 to 13 years of age from separate classes? Excuse me, but this will be Sándor Pintér. What measures would you like to take to help reduce the abuse of obstetrics? Also Sándor Pintér. What measures would you like to take to help... [[The president's gonna turn off the speaker's mic.]]
u2022-09-26-153	Congresswoman, you may find this solution funny. I would like you to ask the question of the Secretary of State of Eszter Vályos. You can do that by the house rules.
u2022-09-26-154	Unfortunately, there is no area in the hands of the Vitalos Esthers that can substantially improve the fertility rate. [[It's grumpy. Bence Rétvári: Then why did you ask them your question?]]
u2022-09-26-155	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. [[Éva Scars: Mr President, my question has not yet been asked.]] László György Lukács and Dániel Z. Kárpát, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Prime Minister? It's an address. Which one of your congressmen is gonna ask? [[Dr. László György Lukács reporting.]] Mr László Lukács is the leader of the group. Here you go. [[Scars to Eve:]] Congresswoman, you had your chance. [[18.30]]
u2022-09-26-156	Mr President, Far be it from me to criticize the leadership of this House, but I still think that it might be possible for a woman to have some answers to that question or some of the questions. If not, then...
u2022-09-26-157	Mr. Fraternity Manager, the house rules are clearly in order, and you should know that best, and I know you do, so it's up to you.
u2022-09-26-158	Thank you very much. Can I ask so much fairness that Mr. President might reset the clock on the question? [[Noise.]]
u2022-09-26-159	Here you go.
u2022-09-26-160	Mr. Prime Minister, In the last few days, but most of all in weeks, we've been rushing our heads to see how many confectioners, how many restaurants, how many bakeries and how many convenience stores have closed their doors, shut their blinds maybe forever. It seems, and we can see, among the reasons why the food price increase in the first place has reached 34 percent of the record over the past period may be one of the reasons, cause for inflation, and the increase in energy prices has also made a serious contribution to these companies closing down. But not only does this mean that companies are shutting down, but it means that families living behind them are losing their livelihood, and employees are able to find new jobs overnight, and the main street of a city will be richer with another publishing, empty business. [[Éva Sebők places a folder on Eszter Vitályos's table and leaves the Chamber.]] Your minister, Márton Nagy, has announced a support for small and medium-sized companies working in the energy intensive sector, which he says is about ten thousand businesses, but no matter how I looked, it doesn't seem to include the smallest businesses, whether they are self-employed or small companies, who are now having problems because of the cut-off energy prices. The thing is, Prime Minister, perhaps one of your favourite restaurants or bakeries is considering closing. We at Jobbik believe that these smallest businesses are the success of the Hungarian economy, they are the golden reserve of the Hungarian economy, and their help is at all costs the primary government intention and goal, as they are a livelihood for thousands of families. Mr. Prime Minister, So what do you say to shops that have two difficult years behind and facing a difficult year and suffering from the poor treatment of the coronal virus epidemic, closed and waiting for closure? Brussels, Soros, Gyurcsány, or sanctions? Which would you choose, Prime Minister? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-09-26-161	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2022-09-26-162	Honourable Congressman, No doubt generously, because you have asked not only one question, but you have also given me the answers from which I can choose, but if you will allow me, I would rather use this short time to tell you that the government can help Hungarian businesses with three tools. The first is that we are launching a business support programme worth more than HUF 200 billion, which will partly offset energy bills and, on the other hand, we want to support investments in small businesses that can save energy. These businesses need to be energy intensive, because EU rules do not prevent these companies from being supported unless their energy costs exceed 3 percent of the total cost is called energy intensive or investments in the production sector. We can now provide them with a program, the details of which, if they have not yet been published, will soon happen. Our second programme does not concern the small ones, but the large ones, the large Hungarian businesses. We call this a factory rescue program, it hasn't started yet. Here we will negotiate individually with those who are producing companies and energy intensive ones. And in the third part, we will also launch an action plan to protect jobs if necessary; I hope there will not be, but I am afraid that we cannot rule this out. Although there is still a shortage of labour in the Hungarian labour market today, there may be more redundancies, and then we need to support businesses so that they can continue to employ people, as we did after 2010, when we inherited the economic bankruptcy from you or your allies, we were able to give work to everyone with a job protection action plan. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-09-26-163	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of the faction leader. Here you go.
u2022-09-26-164	Thank you very much. You have made a good point, however, that you have not, in essence, chosen any of the four answers offered, but we know your position, Prime Minister, we have not been sitting in our ears for the last time. But what is very important, and I think your answer has pointed out that it seems that there is no success for the smallest, self-employed, really small Kft., for all those on whose shoulders the success of Hungarian businesses rests. These are those who, essentially because of their families, because of the completion of their own future, and they are the smallest, and you do not give them any real support, because the category that you are planning is unlikely to fit into the plants or the small shops that are now closing up this concerns the energy intensive, but what we see is that they want to support the multinationals in a good way and properly. We suggest that you turn that logic around and turn that logic around. Don't support the multinational, support these small domestic businesses, if you like, as you said earlier, to protect the overhead for families. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Protect the rent for these smallest businesses. This is the best way to complete the freedom of enterprise and the best you can do for it, Prime Minister. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-09-26-165	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. A one-minute rejoinder is due to Mr. Prime Minister. Here you go.
u2022-09-26-166	As I was saying, we're going to start three programs in the first two, and as far as I know, no multi-enterprises are involved. That you'll have to think about them in your job protection plan, we'll see. In any case, since Covid, i.e. since 2020, there has been HUF 2040 billion in aid to companies, of which 1600 billion has been paid to the SME sector, i.e. mainly to Hungarians. What I see is that you are burying the program that we want to help small and medium-sized enterprises, even though it hasn't started yet. Therefore, I suggest that we wait for the program to start, and then we say that it was helpful to the little ones, or rather it will be as you pessimistly see it not. I trust that we will be able to launch a program that will reach the little ones. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-09-26-167	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What's going on? It's an address. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-09-26-168	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Prime Minister! You've won an election by making cheap Russian gas and reducing the costs. There are two things that have certainly not been achieved: Russian gas has not become cheap and there has been an increase in overhead. Last September, the Russians made the worst deal of the century. The 15-year long-term gas contract was referred to as a historic success, providing cheap and supply-proof Russian gas for Hungary for a decade and a half. Compared to this, it turns out they forced themselves into the worst possible conditions. While the price of gas was previously linked to Russian oil, the Ural, they have now managed to negotiate for themselves to purchase the Dutch stock price gas price and 7-8 percent above that. [[Dr. Zsolt Semjén: This is the EU's requirement!]] So they assure us that for an infinite amount of time, we can pay the Russians virtually huge money for this gas. We're counting on a seven-fold increase in gas prices due to your great decision. No wonder, since the Dutch stock exchange price was TTF from 10-20 euros/megawatt hours to 80s before last year, then it went up to 345 and further, such a brutal, more than 10 times the price. Compared to this, the price of Russian oil has even decreased, at the beginning of the year it is at $80 to $100, and now it is at $66. So if the gas contract had been concluded under previous conditions, it would not have been seven times more expensive, but roughly one quarter of it would have been the maximum price increase that would have hit Hungarian families. Mr Orbán, do you take responsibility for this messed-up business, for serving Putin's interests and for pushing Hungarian families into a livelihood crisis? [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-09-26-169	Thank you very much. I will give the floor to the Prime Minister for the answer. Here you go.
u2022-09-26-170	First of all, we're happy to have something in common. I meant that you, too, believe that the sanctions have led to an increase in energy prices and gas prices on the world market, along with the introduction of sanctions. That's half the success. [[18.40]] As far as the current gas contract is concerned. It would be in Hungary's interest to conclude a fixed price contract with anyone with the Russians. The European Union has forbidden this. I will give your good wishes to Mrs Ursula von der Leyen, because they will not allow you to conclude a contract not only with the Russians, but with no one, which is fixed price. The European Union requires long-term gas purchase contracts to be adjusted to exchange prices in Rotterdam. So once again, I would be happy to do what you think now, and what we all think here, I will bring to the Commission's attention in a civilized way. However, I would also like to note that there is always a commission charge. The reason I consider this contract to be good is because, in the earlier 1990s, I recall that the commission stipulated in the contract concluded during the Horn government is significantly higher than what we now have to pay for the long-term contract. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-09-26-171	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Bence Tordai. Here you go.
u2022-09-26-172	Prime Minister, I see you're having trouble understanding texts. [[There's a lot of noise in the benches of the governing parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] On the one hand, I wasn't talking about sanctions, on the other hand, it seems that you couldn't interpret the Treaty text, not just my question. Didn't your friend Vladimir promise to give us the Russian gas for a fifth price compared to the stock market gas price? Then please explain in retrospect where the fifth price is if we actually get the gas from the Russians at 108 percent. And I would also like to ask what you are offering to the Hungarians, in view of the booming livelihood and energy crisis. To earn more while struggling to keep their jobs, or to save and consume less? Which way do you think you can go with the gas prices you've raised by seven times? I'm curious to hear your life advice.
u2022-09-26-173	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder for the Prime Minister, please.
u2022-09-26-174	Thank you very much. Well, first of all, I would advise Hungarians not to turn to you in any way. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] It is a new genre that the words of the heads of state of foreign states are placed on the table for the Hungarian Prime Minister in the form of an immediate question, so I advise you to turn to whomever the question relates. In terms of commissions, the Russian President's comment is likely to be true. What I can advise and recommend to Hungarian voters is that we appreciate and appreciate the fact that Hungary is in such a state today that it can provide HUF 181 thousand per month of energy support to each Hungarian family through the reduction of the rent. I can also advise the Hungarian families that it is worth honoring us with their trust, that we have introduced this system, that we will maintain it, and that we will continue it as long as possible. I believe that with this support of HUF 181 thousand, we can create conditions that can be tolerated. [[Noise in opposition benches. Kálmán Olga: Well, no! The president's ringing the bell.]] We will also do everything in our power to ensure that, if possible, people earn as much as possible: we will reduce taxes and increase salaries. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Kálmán Olga: It's been raised so far!]]
u2022-09-26-175	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, representative of Mi Hazank, vice-president of the Parliament, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: 'Do you have the courage, Prime Minister? It's an address. Vice President Dóra Dúró will take the floor, please.
u2022-09-26-176	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, Since 2011, fertility has never decreased in Hungary compared to the previous year. Worst-case scenario, he stagnated, but it looks like he might even have a fall this year. Yet, 15-20,000 more children would have to be born each year than the current one in order to stop population loss, and I had not yet talked about emigration. At the same time, instead of having children, he is more concerned with families today so that they can pay the rent, he will be a teacher in schools, who will teach their children, or how they will solve it if they reorder online education. The result of your economic policy is also that German car manufacturers and multinational trade chains carry out a large amount of money every year from Hungary that you spend on the entire Rezségvédelmi Fund. Each of these will obviously be an obstacle to the growth of fertility. There would be plenty of work to be done, Prime Minister, because 41 percent of the 25-34-year-olds still live with their parents, so when having children should be current, even the issue of housing is not solved. The family tax relief for three children is worth less than half as much as when introduced. Why not make this form of family support a follow-up to inflation, at least like pensions? With such inflation, this would provide substantial help to families. If this trend continues, Prime Minister, which has marked the last 12 years, we are rushing towards an unsustainable public finances. What are they doing to avoid collapse? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of our country.]]
u2022-09-26-177	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I will give the floor to the Prime Minister for the answer. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2022-09-26-178	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and There were half a dozen questions, and they're all serious. You can't answer them exhaustively in two minutes, so I'm just gonna give you a signal answer. Please also note that this year, the sum of around 670 billion dollars last year was repaid to the families who earned it and paid it. It hasn't been like this before, and it's been very helpful this year. I would like to tell you that if we were to link family tax relief or any benefits other than pensions to inflation with inflation caused by such a sanctions policy, it would be the same as the Commissioner's. Don't suggest that. Of course, you can suggest what you want, but we can accept the proposals to raise as much as possible the family support elements that are important to people. Pension is linked to inflation. More than this, the Hungarian economy is unable to undertake in the coming years, but I think it is fair and fair that there is only one group of Hungarian society whose income, i.e. its pension, is linked to inflation. We can keep this, we'll pay for what's due. There will be no online education, there is no need to speculate about it now. As far as demographics are concerned, I agree with your analysis of the situation and perhaps your opinion. There's been a lot going on over the past 12 years about family support. That's what I was talking about this afternoon. As we made a lot of effort, we failed to achieve a breakthrough. So we need to get back to work. In December, we will finalise the next year's budget and, despite the current energy crisis, we would like to present to this House further steps in support of family policies. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-09-26-179	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Madam Vice President, please.
u2022-09-26-180	Prime Minister, believe me, I know and acknowledge the efforts you have made in the area of family policy. However, after 12 years, we can deduct the consistency that this is little and not effective enough. I would therefore like to point out two other aspects in which serious action is needed. This year there are about 70 working days where families have to supervise their children, because this is necessary for school, kindergarten or other reasons. This is a huge disadvantage in the labour market compared to those without children. On the other hand, at the time of the first child's engagement, the age of mothers has been extremely extended, which the government has not responded to in the last twelve years, even though this was already visible in 2010, and it also requires very serious measures to enable the planned children to be born in these families, so not only enlargement, but also the opening up of new areas and a change of perspective in family policy. [[Applause in the benches of our country.]]
u2022-09-26-181	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder for the Prime Minister, please.
u2022-09-26-182	I think I agree with every word you say. What I'm asking you to do is perhaps appreciate that despite the Covid crisis, and now the sanctioned economic crisis, we've taken nothing from the family support elements. We protected them all and kept them all. The Minister of Finance will be reprimanded, because we are not yet ready to talk about this at the House meeting, but, in agreement with you, the measures planned at the beginning of December must primarily include those that help young women and women to have their first child before they are 30 years old. So we're gonna count, we're gonna divide, we're gonna multiply, we're gonna I am concerned that, in the event that a person has left his 25th birthday and would no longer have the right to be free, but undertakes to have a child between the ages of 25 and 30, he can continue to enjoy this exemption until he is 30. I hope that this will be supported mathematically on 1 December. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[18.50]]
u2022-09-26-183	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the LMP, Antal Csárdi and Máté Kanász-Nagy, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Who is it in your interest? It's an address. Congressman Matthew Kanász-Nagy has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-09-26-184	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, We were listening to your pre-meeting report on the government's actions, and I had the impression that you wanted to maintain a system that was unsustainable. The notified measures completely ignore the green and environmental aspects. What I see is that they want to continue to drive this country into fossil energy dependence, nuclear dependence, and Russian dependence, and to keep it there. I think it's time to arrive at XXI. in the 20th century, where government decisions take account of social, economic and environmental aspects at the same time. He's talking about an energy crisis, but the government doesn't realize that there's no way to talk about an energy crisis without a climate crisis and an environmental crisis, and they're very close together. The LMP has proposals to help us break out of this crisis, once again: the energy crisis, the environmental crisis and the climate crisis. I would like to ask you to consider these proposals. This includes the authorisation of wind energy, because it is absolutely absurd that the new installation of wind power plants has been banned in the middle of the energy crisis since 2016. I would also like to ask you to consider taxing the use of solar energy, the tax of which should be abolished, and the government should support the use of this renewable energy by all means. Our proposal is also to launch a national building insulation programme. If there is 700 billion forints for the purchase of a telecommunications company, then I think that there is also a hundred thousand apartments on an annual basis; and the three plus one is my suggestion: introduce the climate lease and promote green, sustainable public transport. My question is that the Prime Minister has supported these proposals. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the LMP.]]
u2022-09-26-185	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go.
u2022-09-26-186	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, too, I am faced with the fact that I should be dealing with six or seven serious issues that are different from each other. First of all, I suggest that we do not go against the national strategy goals. Since 1998, I have been working to get at least something from the Hungarian telecommunications system privatized by the government prior to 98, or to have a telecommunication system in Hungarian hands. Telecommunication is at least as important a part of the future as the climate, and today we are forced out of the market, so I would never oppose the purchase of Vodafone with other national strategy goals. As far as wind power is concerned, I spoke about it today, and there are big debates within the government. Some support it, some do not, this debate has not yet come to a standstill. The coordination of green aspects, climate aspects and environmental aspects is also the responsibility of Minister Palkovics within the government, who talks about this very often and a lot. I suggest you keep an eye on him if you can. [[Defiance.]] In any case, we are not talking about nuclear captivity, but we think that without nuclear power, we cannot solve Hungary's energy supply, and I also tried to say today that I was not precise enough that a substantial part of the modernization of the energy system of HUF 16 000 billion was used to renovate the network in order for solar power plants, the small ones and the large ones to connect to it. We have been thinking about reducing the tax burden on solar energy and reducing the obligation to pay, but we see that prices have increased to such an extent as to generate large profits from solar energy that they can be expected to contribute to a certain extent to the Rezief Protection Fund, so we do not plan on abolishing this payment yet, but otherwise we agree with the situation: we are trying to relieve solar power plants of payment as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-09-26-187	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of Congressman Matthew Kanász-Nagy. Here you go.
u2022-09-26-188	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. Prime Minister, I am trying to monitor László Palkovics' activities, and I would also like to follow up on the debates that are, therefore, very good in relation to wind energy within the government. Now, I don't know if you invited him to a government meeting on this, because we've never really been aware of these debates. [[Bence Rétvári: Don't get your hopes up.]] László Palkovics' position is somewhat known. Recently, he spoke to a Turkish news agency about the need to promote wind energy. If there is a debate, I imagine that you, Prime Minister, are the counterpoint of László Palkovics, in the government, who does not want to allow wind energy. But I think this is your chance. I look forward to your opinion on what you, Prime Minister, think: should we allow the use of wind energy in Hungary, as it was before 2016? Thank you very much.
u2022-09-26-189	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is due to Mr. Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2022-09-26-190	There are wind turbines in Hungary, it is worth starting from experience. That's what we do. Many unanswered questions are raised before us. The recycling of used shovels, the introduction of shovels made of materials of a different nature, the whole environmental pressure that wind turbines exert on wildlife and residents in the area are all questions that require a thorough study. I'm not ideologically concerned with this question. Hungary has experience because we have wind turbines. These experiences are being processed. This is what the debates are about: how to interpret the data that we have and then we will make decisions. I have only a moderate percentage to count on in this case. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-09-26-191	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Gergely Arató and Mr László Varju, representatives of DK, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think you are doing, Prime Minister? It's an address. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Mr László Varju has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-09-26-192	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Prime Minister! Today, millions of Hungarians are counting overhead bills, thinking about how long they can pay their bills in the coming months. What does the Prime Minister do in this situation? As a first step, he triples his salary, then on the radio he tells him to make more money, who can't pay his bill. [[Viktor Orbán: No!]] Well, you've been pretty generous about it, so thank you for the advice, so instead, we should give you some cake. Instead of you, the shadow government has developed a clear solution to the current situation. The system charges must be frozen at the level of 1 January this year. Today, too, there is an increase in the rent bill for those who, by the way, can fit into the official priced quantity. This has to stop. The amount of gas and electricity that can be given to the public at reduced prices should be doubled, so the reduced tariff should be extended to 288 cubic metres per month for natural gas and 420 kilowatt hours per month for electricity. The regime oratorium must be introduced. This means that anyone who has paid his bills properly before the brutal government increase and can continue to pay as much as he has paid, should not be able to turn off the gas or the electricity unless he asks for it separately. We need to reduce the VAT on gas and electricity to 5 percent, so that the government does not want to make money on the Hungarians' already runaway expenses. That would be what a fair, European-oriented left-wing government would do. Instead, you abandon people and even provoke me with such cynical texts. So I ask Prime Minister: how do you intend to do this? Thank you very much. [[István Szilárd Németh: In the shadows he got sunstroke.]]
u2022-09-26-193	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will give the floor to the Prime Minister for the answer. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2022-09-26-194	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to reiterate that, throughout Europe, the highest support is given to families by the Government of Hungary through energy prices. Nowhere, in countries much richer than us, is there as much support as in Hungary. We also want to help people make more money, that's important. The minimum wage was raised by more than 20 percent in early January, and I hope that we will be able to do so in the future. [[19.00]] I listened to all his advice, and all I could think of was how sad it was that when they were on the wheel, they were doing the opposite! [[Delight and applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-09-26-195	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató in return, please.
u2022-09-26-196	Mr. Prime Minister, The problem is, you can't heat it with cynicism, because otherwise you could heat up the whole country. In your reply, you did not say anything about what this government offers to Hungarian citizens, to elderly people and families who cannot pay the rent. You didn't say anything about what you were offering to the Hungarian people you lied to before the election, even after the election, about protecting the overhead increase, and then raising the price of gas by seven times the price of electricity and double the price of electricity. You don't say anything to those minimum wagers, hardworking people who earn very little, whose 20 percent wage increase is already eaten by inflation... I'm sorry... [[He's coughing. János Lázár: From all the shouting!]] Prime Minister! What do you think you're doing? [[János Lázár: Thank you, that's enough! Feel better. Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2022-09-26-197	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll give the Prime Minister a rebuttal answer. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2022-09-26-198	I would like to reiterate calmly that the Hungarian government grants HUF 181 thousand per month to each family, each Hungarian family, through energy prices. When you steered, you couldn't even dream of it. But the fact is that when you governed, you didn't give more money to people, you didn't fight for a higher salary, you took their 13th month's pension and you took their 13th month's salary from them. [[Intercoms from the benches of the governing parties: That's right!]] And you're gonna do these. [[Gergely Harvesto: Has this been returned since then?]] by person [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The Parliamentary Protocol has shown that it has been voted in favour here. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-09-26-199	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Congressman András Imre Jámbor, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. What is going on? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, [[Several Members leave the room. Noise in the room.]] I would like to inform you that, due to the Minister's absence, Bence Rétvári has appointed Deputy Secretary of State to respond. But until then, let's take a two-minute technical break, because he won't be able to hear our voices. [[András Imre Jámbor: Most of the Fidesz people...]] Congressman, you must have not noticed that I ordered a two-minute technical break in order to ask your question in calm circumstances. (Recess: 19.02 19.04 President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Dr. Winner Vinnai and Sándor Szabó)
u2022-09-26-200	I ask my fellow Members that those who leave now do so with the utmost discipline so that we can continue our work. Then I'll ask again: Jámbor András Imre, representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. What's going on? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to his absence, Minister Bence Rétvári, Minister of State, was entitled to reply. I respectfully ask you, accept your response. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much for indicating to me that you have accepted the person you are responding to. Congressman András Imre Jámbor shall have the floor. And I would ask my fellow Members and those who are going out to listen in the most quiet manner.
u2022-09-26-201	Thank you for the floor. I am a little sorry that 70 percent of the Prime Minister and the pro-government representatives left before the speech. We have talked a lot today about the economic crisis and the energy crisis, but we have talked little about the social crisis that is currently in Hungary. In the last week, I've seen two stories about eviction. Last week, we had to prevent an illegal eviction with the help of the city's everyone and the Street Lawyer, and this morning, you voted against the Justice Committee to review the work of the Executive Board, which is quite necessary. In recent weeks, we have seen many cases where there is a possibility that the Executive Faculty has not acted well and that legislative amendments should be made. This social crisis will place an enormous burden on the institutional system, and the fact is that I have already asked two written questions to the Minister about the social institutions' regulations, to which Bence Rétvári replied, because the burden they impose on social institutions is the result of this social crisis, and this will be very harsh. And this is linked to the energy crisis in which these institutions will increasingly find it difficult to pay the rent. The Symbiosis Foundation in Miskolc, which deals with autistic children, stated on Facebook that their annual budget will increase by HUF 75 million. Mr Retvári did not reply to this question, which support they would be able to provide throughout the social care system. The Social Workers' Association did a research, 64 institutions responded to them. This showed that nearly half of the respondents expected an increase in electricity prices of between 26 and 75 per cent, and 28 per cent expected an increase in energy costs of 1.5 and 2 times higher. It's even worse in the gas section. My question would be what the government will do to ensure that these social institutions do not go bankrupt and help people with disabilities, homeless people and older care institutions in the crisis in a situation where more and more people are in a difficult situation in the global economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the floors of Dialogue and MSZP.]]
u2022-09-26-202	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2022-09-26-203	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is also important what you have pointed out about how to deal with the crisis, but it is also important how to prevent such crises. With regard to the treatment, I think it is important that we adopted the budget for next year, which you said no to, honourable Member, that we have increased the cost of social, child protection and child welfare services from HUF 1139 billion to HUF 1326 billion, by HUF 187 billion in Hungarian, we have increased the budget from which we can help people who are in difficulty. But that's what we've been trying to prevent. You know, we raised the minimum wage to a much greater extent than left-wing governments have ever, for example, now 20%, to HUF 200,000, because we believe that the best social policy is job creation and high incomes with low taxes. You know, you're looking to levy a very high 30-40 percent tax on people, but we've reduced personal income tax to 15 percent. You said in the entire election campaign, when the prices of gas and electricity on the international markets were much lower, that everyone had to be charged with gas prices, that they had to put electricity prices on the market, that they had to be given some kind of social support, from which we saw, under the governance of the left, that they could not provide substantial support. However, we said that we would help everyone, and for the average consumption, we would help families every month by HUF 181 000, precisely so that it would not be the overhead that they could not pay, and that it would not be the overhead that led them to poverty. Honourable Congressman, Your social policy based on aid has led to 400 thousand people living in extreme poverty in 2010, over 400 thousand people living in deep poverty, and now according to Eurostat's statements, less than 100 thousand people living in deep poverty. That road always leads to an increase in extreme poverty, and ours has led to poverty reduction. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-09-26-204	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr András Imre Jámbor, has been addressed.
u2022-09-26-205	Honestly, I really don't understand why you can't give me answers to questions. So I had a question about how these institutions are being helped. You have said two figures on how much more aid for social institutions will be increased in the budget, which was set out in May. Secretary of State, this is an increase below inflation, not below the current inflation rate, but below the inflation rate two months ago. Do you think these institutions will be able to farm the rent from this raise, with this money? In addition, as he did not specify in his written reply, he also does not specify what this is going to do, because it is not going to be an extra-residual. Obviously, these are tied-in institutional funds, which are for a given task. [[19.10]] For the rest of the gang, we have already discussed with Mr Hollik at the Tranzit Festival that I never said that we should abolish the reduction of the rent. Please don't tell me I ever said that. With the HUF 180,000 grant, it is clear that this is compared to the public authority price you set, which is well above, for example, the 12 HUF Paks electricity price produced by MVM. So the fact that they create a number and say that we give an awful lot of money compared to this number, of course, I can say that I give you 10 forints, and otherwise there is a discount of 990 forints, because I could have given you 1000 forints. These numbers games are ridiculous. [[Applause from the opposition parties.]]
u2022-09-26-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2022-09-26-207	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If we do not have a reduction in the rent in Hungary, let us see that you believe that the situation is better everywhere else. You claimed how much euro cents a kilowatt electricity costs in Budapest: 9.75. Bucharest 16, Vienna 36, Berlin 39, Brussels 40, Copenhagen 53, London 63, Budapest 9.75. And the same for gas: 2,64 in Budapest, Bucharest 6,27, Brussels 13, Berlin 17, Vienna 18, Copenhagen 22, Amsterdam 28. You have political blindness, honourable Member. He hates the government so much, he can even misread the numbers. He may be so moved by his own words that he sometimes overlooks a zero with tears from here or from there. But look at it, compare prices. This HUF 181 thousand means that people's overhead costs are lower in Hungary compared to countries west of us, east of us and south of us. Your policy has always resulted in that! That the multinationals did well, and people did wrong. It was you, the left, who even recorded the profits of the multinationals from public services and public works in law, so that the multinationals would always benefit, and the people would always suffer badly. This is the real face of the left. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-09-26-208	Thank you very much. I respectfully ask László Varju to take his place, because he's next. [[Laszlo Varju: Me?]] Member László Varju, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister for Economic Development an immediate question:. What do you think you're doing? It's an address. The Minister is not here, but he has authorised Mr János Fónagy Secretary of State to answer the question that the Member has asked.
u2022-09-26-209	Although there's some surprise in it... [[Defiance from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-09-26-210	Thank you very much, so the Member accepts the person who is responding.
u2022-09-26-211	Yes, of course.
u2022-09-26-212	Thank you very much. Mr László Varju has the floor.
u2022-09-26-213	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, Since we have just been in the position that the Prime Minister has not been able to answer the question that I have asked, I would like to repeat it, and I would like that the members of the government, relying on their expertise, not only to give a political response, but also to give a meaningful answer to what they want to do for the people, because nothing is happening at the moment. Therefore, instead of you, the shadow government has come up with a clear solution to this current situation, what should be done. First of all, we need to freeze the system usage fee. I am also saying this because, at the level of 1 January this year, if they do so, there will be no increase in the bills of those who, by the way, would be able to consume the reduced rate, the quantity of which you have decided. Secondly, the volume of gas and electricity that can be given to the population at reduced prices should be doubled. How much is this gonna be? After all, the preferential tariff for gas is up to 288 cubic metres per month and 420 kilowatts for electricity. [[Sic!]] So that's what needs to be doubled. The regime oratorium must be introduced. This means that anyone who has paid his bills properly and what he has paid so far before the brutal government raises will still be able to pay up, and there is no way to turn off the gas. And this is not the end, because a system of support must be developed to deal with accumulated payments delays and to support those who are unable to pay, on the basis of their social and income situation. So I ask again: what does the Orbán government intend to do to help people in the recession they caused? Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-09-26-214	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be heard from Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-09-26-215	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, To your repeated question, I can only give you the repeated answer that the Prime Minister has told you about the freezing of the overhead costs and the system charges. Please note that there is a hat, there is a reshy hat that automatically freezes these amounts regardless of internal, shared titles. So there is a monthly fee of HUF 182 thousand provided by the state, and on the other hand there is a overhead. In the context of such a two-minute genre, the fact that the system usage fee is linked to and what it serves, please allow me not to get involved in it now, with the close remark that the other comments that have just been made here, for example, have complained about the use of other alternative energies, wind energy, even though the inclusion of it, including it in the system, would, if possible, become possible. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) My repeated answer to the repeated question is that we are currently providing the highest public premium in Hungary, because of the enormous increase in energy costs due to the sanctions measures. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-09-26-216	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll give the floor a one-minute rejoinder.
u2022-09-26-217	Thank you very much. Minister or Secretary of State, I have to tell you that neither the gas lock nor the chicken hat will help the people who have given me the bill that you have paid 25 thousand forints of gas dames, and now you have to pay 65 thousand forints of your otherwise 150,000 forints' pension. In addition, you can throw 181,000 forints at me, but to the single, single pensioner with whom you pay for this is exactly proof that you are unable to handle this situation. In your time, you're seven times under increased gas prices of 700 percent, so I see you're laying this on the families, and you're actually spreading your arms around, so let's do whatever you want. This is what is unacceptable, and this is what the shadow government has developed for. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-09-26-218	Thank you, Congressman. The Secretary of State shall also have a rejoinder.
u2022-09-26-219	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, We're living in a time of war with war consequences, and you know it. He also knows precisely that the costs of the Hungarian public's rent and their potential to be exempted according to its limitations are unique in Europe and are the most important in its amount. What you're proposing is clearly a state failure. You want to propose a tragedy out of the difficulties. I do not recommend this to you, to the Parliament or to the Hungarian society. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-09-26-220	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Lot. Ms Erzsébet Németh, representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance a question: Are you willing to advance the pension increase in November? It's an address. Lot. Congresswoman Erzsébet Németh has the floor.
u2022-09-26-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Before the election, you lied to the electorate to force the most painful austerity package ever after the election, saying that you did not raise prices, nor your food, nor your rent. [[19.20]] Food prices are skyrocketing, fuel shortages, seven-time gas prices, tax increases, broken businesses, resinishes, you brought this crisis together in less than six months. In particular, pensioners are in a lot of trouble, and you have already made sure that the Swiss indexation has been abolished. The average amount of old-age pensions in 2008 represented more than 71 per cent of the net average earnings, which fell below 54 per cent by 2021. And please do not start to give examples of the period 2002-2010, because the purchasing value of pensions has increased by almost one third in eight years, and not even one quarter in your eleven years. The pensioners have already paid a lot of money for your country. The average monthly amount of the pension increased from HUF 160,000 last August to HUF 184 thousand, which is a 15 percent increase, together with the 13th month paid as an election honeycomb. On the other hand, Eurostat indicated that inflation was 18.6 per cent. The average pensioner is therefore forced to live on less than HUF 5500 a month today than a year ago, i.e. until the pension increase due in November, you will lend your pensioners the price of their economic spree. So I ask Mr Secretary of State: are you willing to help pensioners in their own crisis [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] With the early, paid pension increase? Thank you. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-09-26-222	Thank you very much. The question will be answered by Mr András Tállai, State Secretary.
u2022-09-26-223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As the shadow minister for pensions, I thank you for your speech. It's true that you didn't say your question in full, so if you'll allow me, I'd rather quote what you didn't say, but it's written here. Here's what you're writing about: in 12 years, the real value of pensions has increased by 24.83 percent. Well, that's exactly what we agreed to do in 2010 to keep the purchasing value of pensions to a minimum, if possible, increase it. You write 25 percent, which means that in 12 years, the real value of pensions has increased on average by more than 2 percent per year. He does not say that this has been achieved during your governance, because it has not been achieved, there has been a year when the real value of pensions has been reduced by 6 percent. I will not hide it, this government, the current government, wants to follow the same pension policy, maintain the real value of pensions and keep it even now, when the problem is greater, when inflation is higher when we are facing an economic recession. The government will still keep its statutory promise, i.e. it will figure out how much inflation was in the first eight months, the expected inflation will be calculated by the end of the year, and we will give the pension supplement to pensioners in November accordingly [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] which will have a backward effect as of 1 January. So we will protect the value of pensions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-09-26-224	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Technology and Industry:. Do you support the MSZP Resisttop's proposal to launch a comprehensive building insulation program? It's an address. Mr Sándor Szabó has the floor.
u2022-09-26-225	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Hungary is on the verge of an unprecedented livelihood disaster, as inflation is high, the forint is weak, there is an energy price explosion, food prices are constantly rising, which is disrupting Hungarian society. However, before the elections, you promised to protect the reduction of the overhead, and compared to this, you unleashed a huge increase in gas and electricity prices on the population, making it difficult for hundreds of thousands of households. However, this livelihood crisis was not only due to a misguided, often lied government policy and put families in a position, but also because Fidesz has neglected energy efficiency over the past 12 years. This is also your original sin, by the way. In 2010, they promised something else: in four years, a million flats were renovated without a fee of HUF 500 billion from EU funding. Then it became that government offices and state institutions were renovated, but the public panel program was shut down, and the Kádár Cube renewal program was pulled straight out of the energy strategy. There was no merit explanation, or one: their then Secretary of State, Peter Kaderjak, said that the renovation of these family houses would actually cost so much that it was unmodern, so it is not practical to do so. Madam State Secretary, the Hungarian people need a resisttop, not a raise. The energy efficiency of residential buildings is one of the worst in Hungary within the EU, and in many places the street is practically heated. Most of these properties are old people, and obviously they cannot pay for insulation or modernisation costs. But speaking of this, Madam Secretary, there would have been enough resources to seal hundreds of thousands of Kádár's cubes from the purchase of Vodafone. Therefore, my question is: will you finally support the MSZP's proposal to launch a comprehensive national building insulation programme? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2022-09-26-226	I give the floor to Secretary Zsófia Koncz.
u2022-09-26-227	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for your comment, your comment on the rent, on building energy. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that between 2002 and 2010 energy prices have been raised 15 times. I think that since 2013, this government has been pursuing an incredibly consistent policy in terms of the reduction of the rent, the reduction of the rent, and in such a difficult situation, which was clearly caused by the war and then by the failed sanctions in Brussels, it can help the Hungarian families to the greatest extent. This can amount to up to HUF 181 000 per month, and this saves more than HUF 2 million per year for families. I think that there could be no greater help than this, and besides, besides the reduction of the rent, we have launched the firewood programme, the brown coal programme, we have extended the pricestops, so we are working with all our efforts to protect Hungarian families and pensioners in the current energy situation. He was interested here in energy efficiency. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that between 2010 and 2020, the support for energy efficiency investments in the 300,000 families was over 70 billion forints. Several support options are currently under way, such as home renovation support, with nearly 200,000 families receiving support over the past year and a half, and a program for the construction and modernisation of residential solar systems is also under way, with a quarter of the programme being dedicated specifically to heating modernisation. I think that you would know best and most effectively. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to do so in addition to the Resistop if they support that sanctions in Brussels should not be introduced and withdrawn. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-09-26-228	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Kristóf Márton Tompos, representative of the Momentum, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade a question: "Does the EU sanctions on Russia really not work? It's an address. Mr Márton Tompos, the floor belongs to Congressman Kristóf.
u2022-09-26-229	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, We keep hearing from you that sanctions don't work. The thing is, the numbers don't show that. The figures show that Russia's GDP will decrease by 11 percent only this year. The figures show that their exports and imports are falling by more than 30 percent. The figures show the World Bank figures that 22 percent inflation is expected only for this year. This, of course, is available even to us if you continue to do whatever you call government, but let's stick to the Russians now. [[19.30]] In a bit of a tangible example, the Russian car industry almost completely ceased, the few that remained dropped to the level of the 1990s. At the moment, the Russians are on their way to install electronics from washing machines, dishwashers, refrigerators to mitigate the impact of sanctions. The Russian intellectuals are fleeing the country. You can see the photos from Finland, Georgia, Kazakhstan, they've been on the run, especially since the partial mobilization. Over a thousand companies have left the country. So I ask why the Hungarian government says that sanctions do not work. If it is maintained that sanctions do not work, then at least one data, one number, one stats in the Russian economy will be shown to support this! Most importantly, if they think the sanctions are not working, then why have they been voted on and why they want to hold a consultation on it. I'm waiting for your answer. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2022-09-26-230	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Magyar Levente.
u2022-09-26-231	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The issue of sanctions and the economic difficulties facing Russia should be discussed rationally, but I think that, on the basis of the above, it will not be possible to do so tonight, because if you and your party think that parts made up of washing machines in Russia will be installed in weapons and missiles and that the microchip industry will be rebuilt on this basis, then it is obvious that you will envelop this debate in a propaganda tone that does not allow us to continue this discussion factually and in a way that allows us to have the necessary debate. Honourable Congressman, Everyone knows that Russia suffers from these sanctions. The question is, it hurts Russia more than it hurts us. We don't think it's given at the moment. If Russia suffers less from sanctions than the European Union, they are not effective, they do not achieve the desired goal, they do not produce the desired effect. If you are aware, on the basis of historical examples, that shaking Russia a little economically is not equal to forcing it to its knees, then you know precisely that these sanctions are not at present so deep that they do not affect everyday life in such a depth that they can have a real impact, namely the desired effect of Russia withdrawing its troops, because it is obvious that the sanctions are aimed at this pragmatic goal: end the war, welcome peace. This sanctioning regime is unsuitable for this, as the war is now entering its eighth month, with on the first day the Union began to introduce these so-called sanctions against Russia. So the question is not whether it hurts Russia, it can be classified as statistics, the question is that it hurts him more than it hurts us. The answer to that is no. The main question is that Russia will end the war because of these sanctions: this is not the direction things are pointing in. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-09-26-232	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, János Bencze, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of Agriculture, whether the government is consciously lying or unable to count? It's an address. Mr János Bencze has the floor.
u2022-09-26-233	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, It is a pleasure to see how the government helps families to obtain firewood, as 10 cubic meters of firewood per household. If we look at these demands and compare this promise with the number of Hungarian households, then we see that Hungary has a strong four million households, of which two million are suitable for solid fire, i.e. it can heat with wood. So, no matter how we multiply things, that would mean 20 million cubic meters of wood, which, according to forestry figures, doesn't exist in the woods. Speaking of forestists, the Hungarian forests produce 6.5-7 million cubic metres of wood each year. This includes industrial wood, not just firewood. I want to ask you where this plus 13 million cubic meters of wood is, if we even take the first numbers on purpose. Tell me we're increasing the extraction. The increase in production is impossible due to the number of lumberjack brigades, as the forestry profession is set for this 6.5-7 million cubic metres. So there's no wood here overnight. But let's just say, let's start with the fact that there's gonna be enough staff and we can increase production. It follows that there would be a permanent increase in the labour demand of forestry farms, who are unable to compete with industrial multinationals, and that industrial multinationals still receive more labour support than agricultural enterprises who receive nothing for living. Dear Minister, I hope you don't hear these numbers from me first, and I hope you don't hear about months of waiting lists now. We can safely say what happens to those who get wet firewood in the middle of winter. There are already promises like this from forestry. Do you have a government text saved as a draft so that if you run out of firemen, you can move in with someone? And one more important question. What will happen to forest managers if the numbers are not met? They walk like the leadership of OMS, or like Paks II. experts? Thank you.
u2022-09-26-234	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas.
u2022-09-26-235	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to draw my colleague's attention to the fact that in Europe, if you do not already know or experience it, there is an energy crisis. Our government has declared an energy emergency in Hungary. Wood in forests provides a sustainable and climate-friendly opportunity to reduce the energy use of fossil fuels and reduce the impact of the energy crisis. In previous years, the wood was also sufficient for the population, which fully met the needs. I am very pleased that my fellow Members have understood and even considered the challenges the government is facing in the situation that has now emerged in this area. The task can be solved both by means of resources adapted to decades of planned returns and by mobilising new ones. I find it interesting that so far we have been eyeballed to ease the rules on logging, thus endangering natural values, and now they are asking why there are not enough trees. Dear fellow Member, The production of the quantity required for the supply of firewood is ongoing with the highest possible use of resources, and, unlike your reckless expectations and ideas, we obviously do not want to produce the necessary wood simultaneously, uncontrolledly and irresponsiblely. The forest experts in the public sector choose the logging stock by taking into account any renovation obligations, and therefore some of the timber is derived from damage and not end-use. I am also aware that the country's forest frying is uneven, so we will also address the issue of supplying the poorer regions in the tree. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-09-26-236	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Sándor Berki, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of Technology and Industry: "I understand that it is official priced, but when will the 11.5 kg PB gas bottle be available again? It's an address. Congressman Sándor Berki has the floor.
u2022-09-26-237	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Suddenly, I don't know who's going to answer, but the point is that today in Hungary, the 11.5 kg LPG bottle is not available at reduced prices. Distributors have simply driven this product out of the market. With such a simple trick, traders have managed not to have to sell an officially priced LPG gas bottle, but only the smaller filling weight. In this case, I also looked for the government commissioner responsible for Szilárd Németh's debt reduction. I wrote to him, I didn't get an answer, but what's worse is that there hasn't been any legislative amendment in this case, even though he promised that in order not to avoid the sale of public-priced LPG cylinders, distributors will initiate a legislative amendment. That didn't happen. I also wrote a letter to the Energy and Utility Regulatory Office. They informed me that there is currently no statutory supply obligation for LPG cylinders. That was also a good answer. Therefore, the Office also made it clear in its reply that it would only be able to deal with tricky distributors if a change of legislation allowed it to do so. So we get back to the legislator, get back to Parliament. [[19.40]] I asked Minister Palkovic twice, of course, and he wrote both times that the gas bottle had reduced its volume. I understood that at first, but that was not the question, but thank you very much for your answers. So I'm going to ask you again for an answer. Not for me, not for me, your answer is important, but for people who pay 8-18 thousand for smaller LPG cylinders. That is why I ask you to do something about this, so that we can legislate it, so that we can get back the 11.5 kg LPG tank at official prices. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the lines of Momentum and Dialogue.]]
u2022-09-26-238	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Zsófia Koncz.
u2022-09-26-239	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to thank you for the fact that the Member always takes the matter of our more difficult countrymen to heart and always speaks for it. I think that this is a very important thing for us, too, because in 2010, this government decided to create a work-based society instead of a welfare-based society, and I think that this is the biggest way out of poverty, and we have very good results here, because we have managed to create one million jobs. Now there are 4.7 million people working in the country, which is a huge record, and the unemployment rate is 3.5 percent. So I think these are things that are absolutely important to highlight. Moreover, according to Eurostat data, the number of people at risk of poverty has decreased by 1 million to 250 thousand since 2010 and the proportion of people in severe material deprivation has decreased from 23.4 per cent in a decade to 8 per cent. We also have a number of measures that we are trying to help families. Obviously, maintaining the reduction of the rent is also a very important thing, which we have talked about several times today, that families can save up to HUF 181 thousand a month. However, there is also a need to mention the price caps and the possibility of introducing a discount until the purchase of 10 cubic meters of firewood. In 2011, we had already introduced the social fuel purchase aid; we provided assistance to foreign exchange lenders; we reduced the VAT on a number of basic foods to 5%. Social children's meals, free textbooks can be listed. Very quickly, because in the meantime, I have touched on so many topics that what I wanted to say about LPG: I cannot complement my previous response, 11.5 kg bottled LPG will continue to be subject to regulatory price regulation. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-09-26-240	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, President Novak, representative of Mi Hazank, wishes to ask the Minister for Economic Development a question: "How long will the increase in the cost leading to the bankruptcy of the state be increased? It's an address. At the request of the Minister of Technology and Industry, László Palkovics, who is competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, will answer the question. Congressman Novak has the floor.
u2022-09-26-241	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Hungary is on the verge of bankruptcy, as more and more institutions are failing after the economic crisis caused by the Covid dictatorship, fleeing from an increase in the government's electoral promises. In Győr, one of the richest county seats in Hungary, both swimming pools, three cultural houses, a museum, and according to the leaked news, the Győr Philharmony, the theater, the puppet theatre and the libraries are preparing for the same thing. The Community squares therefore cease to exist, the State does not operate, and the 21st edition of the 21st edition of the Act on the Law on the Law of the People's Republic of China on the Law of the People's Republic of China on the Law of the People's Republic of China on the Law of the People's Republic of China on the Law of the People's Republic of China on the Law of the People's Republic of China on the Law of the People's Republic of China on the Law of the People's Republic of China on the Law of the People's Republic of China. In the first century, institutions expected to close, and by the definition of bankruptcy of the state, partial insolvency is also Of course, an ostrich-political government can prove that there is no state failure, even when, for example, only 10-20 percent of pensions will be able to be paid, but in fact, the state is no longer functioning. For example, health care has long since provided the required care, which is why many people are forced to use paying services and that the public sector is functioning somewhat, due to the responsibility of private health, and the death of a significant number of those on waiting lists before they take place, and that often patients no longer consult a doctor, relieves the system of vegetation. Back to communism! All the swimming pools in Győr have been closed with this motto since communism, except for the closure of the Covid dictatorship that there is no swimming pool in the county seat. I think it is unacceptable that at least one of them is not open, at least with more limited opening hours, or even with more expensive entry, with higher burdens on health in the longer term as a result of the closure. Madam Secretary, do you acknowledge that Hungary has been led to the edge of the state bankruptcy by increasing its costs? What do you think of the countrywide institution closures? How long will the burden of the municipalities be increased or will they be reduced, even as we have previously proposed? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[István Szabadi applauds.]]
u2022-09-26-242	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary Zsófia Koncz.
u2022-09-26-243	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Unfortunately, there is a war going on in our neighbourhood, and we also know that there have been responses to this, which have resulted in the total release of energy prices as a result of the sanctions policy and an extremely difficult energy situation. In this situation, we are doing everything we can to help families, and we have talked about this several times today. 181,000 forints, I think, is an incredible sum per month, and within Europe there is no such support that other countries would provide to families. I think it's a huge achievement. In addition, we are doing everything we can to ensure that the energy supply is secure, and our storage facilities are already 70 percent charged. These are all strategic issues that result in natural gas and energy in Hungary, and we are trying to support as much as possible, as I have said, families, pensioners and Hungarian people. We also talked about the firewood program, the brown coal program. Maintaining price stops is also very important, and by the end of the year, the gas stop and the food price stop will be maintained, and the interest stop will be held until June 30th next year. We also need to talk about businesses. As Prime Minister said, we are launching a programme of more than 200 billion for energy intensive small and medium-sized enterprises, and we are also working on the factory rescue programme and, if necessary, a new job protection action plan is being prepared. You mentioned the epidemic. I think it is a huge achievement that, in the epidemic situation, this government has done everything in its power to protect Hungarian jobs, and exactly then an action plan for the protection of jobs has been introduced, and if it is necessary, we will implement it now. We ask you to support our ideas in this. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-09-26-244	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Bakos and Máté Kanász-Nagy, representatives of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question, "Why doesn't Fidesz withdraw the forest control decree?" It's an address. Congressman Matthew Kanász-Nagy has the floor.
u2022-09-26-245	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, On the 4th of August, a shocking government decree was issued that largely eliminated conservation aspects during logging. It has also been possible to cut at the most valuable, protected state forests. It is possible to harvest timber throughout the year, i.e. during the vegetation period, which is in direct conflict with centuries of forestry practice and can cause serious damage to wildlife. They have reduced the age of cutting trees, even though older forests are more resistant to the effects of climate change. If foreign trees are cut down, there is no need to plant indigenous species in place. If an acacia is cut down, it'll be acacia again for 40 years. The regulation caused a great deal of outrage. Together, more than 100,000 people signed a petition by LMP and WWF to withdraw the government decree. The LMP turned to the Constitutional Court and organised a protest, where nearly ten thousand people expressed their opposition. After that, thousands of people stood by the forests at a civilian protest. As a result of the protests, István Nagy issued a ministerial order that brought back the ban on cutting and logging during the growing season in indigenous wood forests. [[19.50]] At the same time, the government decree has not been withdrawn to this day, and the ministerial order does not apply to water-treated forests and private forests, so it can continue to be cut in protected forests. Mr. Minister has often stressed that they never really wanted to touch protected forests. If that is true, why not reassure those who are concerned about forests and completely withdraw the decree that allows them to continue cutting? Thank you very much.
u2022-09-26-246	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas.
u2022-09-26-247	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Government decree referred to has been established to resolve the energy emergency and contains the necessary provisions to ensure firewood needs during the emergency period. This emergency is still in place, and the difficult one is still ahead of us, and it is also a requirement for the European Union to reduce fossil energy production. In the case of Hungary, the planned and safe renewable forest biomass plays a major role. If the Member did not mind the remark about forestry and nature conservation regulations, he would know that any forest intervention is preceded by multi-level official consultation and approval, where the nature conservation authority has a prominent role. The Regulation sets out only options for farmers to use only in compliance with official procedural rules. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Hungarian forests have a considerable reserve of wood that can be produced thanks to the sustainable forest management of the century. During the application of the Regulation, we have access to this reserve without endangering this key green capital, so that natural values and forests and the ecological services of forests will not be damaged. The Ministry of Interior is competent to respond to the forests in the water areas. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-09-26-248	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Becsó, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of Justice: what are the results of the Victim Assistance Centres and their related social education at national level? It's an address. Congressman Zsolt Becsó should take the floor.
u2022-09-26-249	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary, Until the change of regime, there was no system for assisting victims of crime in Hungary. After 1989, the municipalities provided assistance to victims in the form of aid, while civil and ecclesiastical organisations took up the victims of sexual violence and civil abuse. One of the goals set out in the Hungarian national strategy is to have a victim support centre in every county seat in Hungary by 2025, thus creating the network system. It is of particular importance for the Hungarian Government that all citizens feel safe and aware that if they become victims of a crime, they have a place to turn and they are not alone. The main reason for developing victim support centers into networks is for physical assistance to be as close to the person in distress as possible. It is important that the victims receive complex assistance, so that the centres are directly connected with the state, municipal, civil and religious organisations needed to achieve the common goal. I am pleased that, in my constituency, since 2021, the Ministry of Justice and the Nógrád County Police Department have worked together at the established victim support point to carry out effectively the tasks related to victim support and victim protection activities. I think it is of particular importance that the Hungarian people feel responsible for their fellow countrymen, help each other, and that the centres play a major role in this, one of the main tasks of which is to provide information, since timely assistance can reduce the time of the victim's recovery, and information can make the abuse recognizable, and this can help to remove the person passing through the abuse from the destructive environment as soon as possible. Dear Madam Secretary, [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Regarding what has been said, I would like to ask what the results of the victim support centers are at national level...
u2022-09-26-250	Thank you.
u2022-09-26-251	...and related social education. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2022-09-26-252	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary Judit Varga.
u2022-09-26-253	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to assure you that, despite the difficulties caused by the war and by the failed sanctions policy, the government still considers it a top priority to further develop the Hungarian victim support system. The objective of the Ministry of Justice, as has been said on the issue, is to develop the existing centres in county seats into a national network by 2025, and the aim of this whole system is to ensure that victims of the victims of the crime in distress can benefit as soon as possible, in the most direct manner and in the most personalized way. That is why we have established these centres, which have already been built in my predecessor's time, but I am pleased to report that we have quadrupled the number of centres in the last three years. At present, such victim support centres are located in 11 county seats, and with great interest in areas where we have not been able to set up a centre in terms of time or financial constraints, there are so-called victim assistance points. Such is the Salgótarján victim support centre, which is also very successful in your constituency. Honourable Congressman, We don't do nothing, and we don't leave anyone without help when they're in trouble, which is why there's a 24-hour victim support line that can be called 24 hours a day. Here, too, I would like to say that the number is 06/80 225 225. So, thanks to the centers and the victim support points and the direct call number, we were only able to make 18,000 victims last year. This was also helped by a legislative amendment, since we operate in an opt-out system with a so-called Dutch model, the victims are directly contacted by the staff of the Centre. I would like to end by saying that it is the duty of every state to help those in distress and to alleviate the social, moral, material, emotional damage caused by the crime and to alleviate the harm. Therefore, the support of the victims remains a committed goal of the Hungarian government, and we will build these centres by 2025. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-09-26-254	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ferenc Dávid, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance: "Who is it good for? It's an address. It is for Congressman Ferenc David.
u2022-09-26-255	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to address Mr Secretary of State, and I think he will answer my question, who surely remembers that in July we were both talking about Kata. I was worried about liquidating the catalog, and he was trying to reassure me that it wouldn't be a big problem. You must be familiar with the current September figures, Mr Secretary of State: 50,000 katas disappeared from the system and did not appear as any other entrepreneur. The question arises of what has become of these mainly secondary jobs, who have worked in health care and education. If my information is correct, only 30,000 people in the field of education worked as part-time jobs, who, by the way, paid full-time contributions and paid the HUF 25,000 they owed. I also say the same for pensioners who, by the way, have done all the repairs and services in the given settlement, are 60-70 years old, or people above, who are obviously not going to work as full-time entrepreneurs. So my question is, on the one hand, what will happen to this loss of service in health care and education on the other. It is also a great loss if people are to be lost, but what I am even more afraid of is that these people, especially industrialists and service providers, will not run a business in small rural settlements, but, to say the least, will either put the hammer, the drill, or do their work black, which I am sure neither Mr. State Secretary nor I will agree to. So I would like to ask who it is good for health and education to lose new workers, society to give up new industrialists and service providers, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry that initiated the measure will lose new members, and the budget will give up new taxpayers. So now we know that. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] that 50,000 entrepreneurs were lost and did not appear as new businesses on the market. Thank you very much for your attention. [[20.00]]
u2022-09-26-256	Thank you very much. András Tállai will answer. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2022-09-26-257	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Member and also Shadow Minister, Minister for Economic Development! Congratulations on that. Let's hope the word "shadow" stays there for a long time before he speaks to the Minister. As for the Kata: I ask for patience, because today is the first deadline according to the law, but since it falls on Sunday, it is now 26th, Monday midnight, when it is possible to choose the new rules. I know a number: on 16 September, 10 days before the deadline, 115,000 people chose the new Kata from about 400,000 cataclysms. And what's even more interesting is that on the same day that we closed the data on September 16th, ten days before September 25th, 125 thousand new flat-rate taxpayers appeared. That means that before the first deadline, which, as I said, half of the books are due today, has already settled their own fate. It's not as much of a political scandal as what they've been trying to make of it in the country or here in Parliament. Believe me, by the time we know the numbers, it will be revealed that you will also find a calculation of the additional activity, because interestingly you can do some kind of bt., or you will find your calculation either as a simple self-employed person or in flat-rate taxation. I ask you, Congressman, to wait for the deadlines, because there will be another deadline, October 31st. Old ones who have not entered the new will be able to opt for flat-rate taxation by 31 October. By the time we get to the end, we'll see that out of the 400,000, exactly as many people will be going back into employment because they have to do the work they're doing anyway. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-09-26-258	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, This agenda is also closed. It follows that, in order to reach agreement with the European Commission, the 2010 CXXX on legislation will follow. Act and Act CXXXI of 2010 on social participation in the preparation of legislation. T/705 amending Act No. Legislative proposal No.3 and the 2017 XC on criminal proceedings in order to reach agreement with the European Commission. T/706. Proposal T/1202 amending certain laws in order to reach agreement with the European Commission. Proposal T/1260 on the control of the use of EU budget resources. Proposal T/1261 on amending certain laws relating to the control of the use of EU budgetary resources. The joint general debate on the legislative proposal No 1 until closure. I declare that the joint general debate will take place as an EU and national agenda item. First, I give the floor to Minister for Justice Judit Varga, the author of the bill. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2022-09-26-259	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, On 18 September, a difficult but extremely constructive conciliation process between the Hungarian government and the European Commission was completed, under the so-called conditionality mechanism. These negotiations have been successful. The Commission concluded that the 17 proposals for measures submitted by the Hungarian Government will adequately address the concerns that led to the opening of the conditioning procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, We could have gotten to this moment sooner. It was not up to the Hungarian government that this did not happen. Effective negotiation has long been hampered by political delay and ideological warfare. However, in April this year the Hungarian people gave a clear mandate to continue the government policy so far. I trust that the democratic message of the Hungarian people has been understood in Brussels, and likewise I trust that yesterday's democratic message of the Italian people will be understood and accepted. This is how we arrived at the end of the summer at the point where we had already discussed concrete measures and specific professional proposals and arguments. The constructive attitude of the Hungarian government is not felt better than that the conclusion of the negotiations was preceded by an intensive conciliation process. We have held a series of video conferences and a number of discussions with the Commission, and the number of documents that have been circumscribed has exceeded a hundred; all of this, ladies and gentlemen, is in the middle of the summer holidays in the hot months of August. The process is an eloquent proof of the patriotic attitude of the Hungarian administration, its commitment to Hungarian interests and its high level of professional knowledge. Thank you, too, for the work of all colleagues who have contributed to the success of our discussions. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.) In this professional dialogue, the Hungarian government took part in the agreement in the spirit of mutual respect and loyal cooperation. We were guided by two aspects. On the one hand, Hungary and the Hungarian people must have access to the resources they deserve. On the other hand, we do not give in to those corner points and we do not compromise without principle on issues on which the Hungarian people have already taken a firm stand in the elections and referendums in April and in previous national consultations. These aspects have been fully implemented. In Hungary, we continue to protect our children, reject illegal migration, and resist any reckless and unreasonable sanctions policies that hit Europe most, not those against whom sanctions have been imposed. Ladies and gentlemen, The decision of the College of Commissioners on 18 September will pave the way for the swift conclusion of negotiations on the Reconstruction Fund and cohesion resources. Therefore, if the government fulfils the commitments it has made, the conditionality procedure can be completed before the end of the year, and Hungary can move to 2023 without loss of funds. Our country has not yet lost EU funds, and the risk of this is not threatening us under the agreement. The Hungarian Government is committed to implementing the measures, in accordance with a timetable agreed with the Commission. Accordingly, already at the end of August, the government started to implement the measures undertaken, in close cooperation with the Commission and other international organisations such as the Council of Europe or the OECD. To this end, the Government has presented several sets of proposals to this House and further legislative initiatives are expected in the process. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary is committed to the core values of the European Union, which all Member States share. Our country is also committed to protecting the financial interests of the Union, as we have a common concern for the transparent and efficient use of European taxpayers, including the payment of Hungarian citizens and companies. At the same time, it is no secret that the Hungarian government has very serious legal reservations against this procedure and the regulation governing it. That is why, together with Poland, last year, we initiated its annulment before the Court of Justice of the European Union. [[20.10]] Although the Court did not undertake the annulment of the regulation, it took over almost all the legal concerns of Hungary in its judgment. I do not hide either that the Hungarian Government has very serious legal concerns about the way the Commission applies the regulation, and as it acted only against our country for obvious political reasons. In a world where the rule of law, the equality of the Member States, objectivity and double standards are respected, such a decision could never have been taken. But as an eternal optimist, I think that even if the legal basis and the opening of the procedure does not serve the greater glory of Europe, its conclusion can partially remedy these grievances. The procedure initiated against Hungary is, in this respect, a test and test procedure for all Member States. If not, but by closing it, it can become an example of constructive dialogue, a symbol of the European idea of unity in diversity and real solidarity. However, this requires that the procedure does not become a hostage to individual political aspirations. This is our most important message to the European institutions, the Member States and the Hungarian opposition. Dear Parliament, In the package of proposals before this House, the measures undertaken by the Hungarian Government aim at strengthening public procurement rules with additional guarantees and strengthening the legal and institutional framework for combating fraud and corruption, as well as conflict of interest rules. The provisions of the legislative package were developed during the negotiations with the Commission and these expectations have been classified into three categories. The first was that there were professionally reasonable points, and these were accepted. There were some that we didn't see necessary, but they were acceptable. Finally, there were some that could be classified as the genre of political pamphlet, but since they do not cause harm, we have not been shut down for the sake of the agreement. I would not now like to classify the corrective measures envisaged for these categories here, and since the proposals before us are available to everyone, and you will see further measures in the future, so I leave this to the wise mind of my fellow Members. Please allow me to present very briefly the most important elements of the legislative package. We undertake that 90 percent of the legislation initiated and announced by the government will be adopted after social consultation. Each year, the Office for Government Control, Kehi, publishes a public report on whether the draft legislation has been discussed in society, or whether the lack of consultation has resulted from one of the legal permitted cases. In order to enforce social consultation, the Office will also verify that ministers preparing legislation comply with their obligations. We will provide time for social consultation before any legislation initiated by the government. In the framework of the general consultation, we provide a minimum of eight days for the opinion, the substantive consideration of the opinions received, the proposals received, in the case of a law or a government decree, before the Government's decision and, in the case of a ministerial decree, five days prior to its publication. Secondly, the package of laws provides for the possibility of establishing reimbursements related to the disproportionate use of the workforce in the area of data claims of general interest. Furthermore, on the basis of the proposal, in the case of expenditure not exceeding the amount laid down in the Government's regulation, no reimbursement may be fixed at all, or, in the case of expenditure exceeding that amount, the maximum amount to be established as compensation could be determined by the Government's regulation. The proposal also includes measures to eliminate the specific rules applicable to requests for data of general interest in the event of an emergency. Thirdly, the creation of integrity is of particular importance among the commitments. This is planned to start operations in the second half of November. If this happens and the other commitments are implemented according to schedule, then we expect the conditioning procedure to be completed. The authority will intervene in cases where it considers that the competent authorities have not taken the necessary steps to prevent, detect and correct fraud, conflicts of interest, corruption or any other infringement or irregularity which adversely affects the implementation of Union financial assistance. The President of the Authority shall be appointed by the President of the State Audit Office on the basis of an open tender, on a proposal from the President of the State Audit Office, and his independence shall be surrounded by comprehensive guarantees. The Anti-Corruption Task Force, chaired by the President of this Integrity Authority, will be renewed. It should also be noted that the working group will operate with members from the government and non-governmental sphere on a par playing field. The task of the Task Force is to put proposals for measures to improve the prevention and detection of corruption on the government's table in its annual reports. In the case of priority crimes committed in connection with the exercise of public authority and the management of public wealth, a separate procedure will be introduced. The applicable procedure would allow a judicial review of the decisions of the prosecution and the investigating authority to reject a complaint or to terminate a criminal proceeding. On the basis of the review, the investigating judge is hereby authorised to order the initiation or prosecution of criminal proceedings. Ultimately, the procedure creates the right to file an indictment. Under the package of proposals, full compliance with the EU Financial Regulation will be ensured with the general rules of conflict of interest for public trust foundations. Our seventh point is that the legislative package designates the National Tax and Customs Office to assist OLAF in carrying out on-the-spot checks in Hungary, and when an entity subject to control refuses to cooperate. At the request of OLAF, a financial officer may assist OLAF in carrying out its on-the-spot checks and investigations in the future. In order to strengthen the audit and control mechanisms, an internal audit and integrity directorate will be set up in the working organisation of the Minister responsible for the use of EU funds. The Director and the government officials and employees working on the board will enjoy extensive administrative autonomy and cannot be instructed at all in their activities relating to the use of EU funds. Ladies and gentlemen, The terms of the agreement are given. The measures contained in the legislative proposals before Parliament have been developed in close cooperation with the Commission. In the coming weeks, we will focus on codifying and implementing the commitments. We work in the government to provide the Hungarian people, Hungary, with the resources they deserve. However, we cannot go without saying that the Balliberal opposition representatives and their colleagues in the European Parliament have been constantly working in recent years to ensure that Hungarians do not receive the funds they deserve, and they are still working on it. I commend to them the words of Ferenc Deák: I can love this country more than hate our enemies. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, All I ask of you is that you love your country more than you hate us. Put aside everyday political battles and support these submitted legislative proposals as a national minimum, regardless of party standing. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-09-26-260	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The speech will now take place in a 30-30-minute time frame by group of representatives. Tamás Deutsch is an EU Member of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-09-26-261	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to address three issues regarding the legislative package on the Parliament's table, in a much shorter timeframe than I would normally have as a lead speaker. First of all, I would like to talk about the political climate in Brussels, namely that the political climate in Brussels does not change at all thanks to the active involvement of the left in Hungary. So, we can't say anything about political climate change. Secondly, I would like to talk about the European Union's development resources, and precisely about the European Union's development resources, which are legal for Hungarian citizens, they belong to Hungary. [[20.20]] As so many people have said so many times, this is not about charity, it is not about helping small brothers in less developed Central Europe, it is about a system enshrined in the Treaty of the European Union, where Hungary, the community of Hungarian citizens, can rightly claim these development resources. Now, what is the fate of these development resources, what efforts have been put at risk for the development of Hungarian citizens, the Hungarian economy, for over a decade that has been left behind? And last but not least, I would like to say that, as Minister said, the agreement reached on 18 September on the announcement of the Commission and the Hungarian Government could be the result. Can you expect, you can hope, that the opposition in Hungary, the single opposition and the left-wing opposition, the opposition that has all kinds of signs on their part, will fulfill its promise, that if the disputes between the European Commission and Hungary on the rule of law are resolved, you can expect the opposition to support this agreement in the Hungarian Parliament and in European politics as well? Now, first of all, the political climate. Ladies and Gentlemen, I'd like to speak clearly and in a straight line without any hesitation. You, representatives of MSZP, DK, Momentum, LMP, Dialogue in the European Parliament [[Gergely Harvesto: They don't have any!]] In addition to Jobbik's MEPs, in the 12 years that we have left behind, they are constantly working against their own country in Brussels. They did everything they could to make their own country miserable by inventing and spreading lies, and they did everything they could to make their own country worse in European politics. Allow me to remind you that Edit Herczog does not remember the former MEP of the Hungarian Socialist Party? in a letter to the national assembly of the MSZP, he made clear and clear the fact that the first report on lies, slanders, slides, fake news information, the Tavares report was the task of Csaba Tabajdi and Kinga Göncz, but in order to accept this report, the fight is fought to ensure that the European Parliament accepts it and Edit Herczog did this work. This was not formulated by public writers; this was not formulated by Fidesz politicians or KDNP politicians, and Edit Herczog formulated this because, by carrying out the party's task, the work carried out until the end of his own country, the decision-makers of the MSZP refused to appreciate and acknowledge that, after this great work against Hungary, he was again honoured by the National Election of the MSZP and placed in the place of the MEP list. Ladies and Gentlemen, There's nothing to talk about after Edit Herczog's unveiling letter. There is nothing to talk about after the fact that, while millions of families across Europe, including in Hungary, fought against the terrible burden of pandemics, the MEP István Ujhelyi, the assistant of the MSZP MEP, used EU funds, was the cameraman of the chamomuvide in which I don't even know what to say, they said madness beyond the limits of absurdities that the authorities in Hungary supposedly died because of the government's involvement, and even because of his conscious intention, hundreds and thousands of people died in the coronal virus epidemic. I would like to say once again, István Ujhelyi is an assistant to the European Parliament... who is paid with the money of European taxpayers to help his representatives, well, using these resources, was the European Parliament's assistant to the cameraman for this Kamuvideo. But I remember very well that the members of the Momentum and DK of the European Parliament spoke out bidding on each other and confirmed the shameful false news that CNN was the source of which, of course, the Hungarian Parliament did not meet in the event of a crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic in connection with the leg-breaking of freedoms. From here, from the building of the Hungarian Parliament, from the conference of the Hungarian Parliament, the representatives of the Liszt Ferenc Airport, flew to Brussels, and there they had the nerve to say that in Hungary the hybrid system, autocracy, was so rampant. Or help us to understand the nonsense that they can think of against their own country, that in this terrible system, in the emergency, the Hungarian Parliament does not meet, and then they came home, and they took part in the meeting of the Hungarian Parliament after the campaign of slander in Brussels. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Members, The fact is that the political climate, which surrounds the Hungarian government's aspirations, is so difficult for a large part because of the Hungarian left and the fact that the united Hungarian opposition is digging against Hungary in Brussels. Ladies and gentlemen, I mentioned that I would like to speak briefly about EU development resources. It is not about the so-called conditioning that I am pleased that the Minister is finally using a Hungarian expression! From the application of the conditionality procedure, you hoped to finally steal, kidnap and buy European Union development resources from Hungarian citizens. Hell, no, my fellow Members, that's not what this is about. For 12 years, you have been constantly striving not to say that your fixed idea, your fetish, is how to prepare political sanctions, actions, aspirations and decisions in the European Union, which will result in the reduction of the European Union's development resources at Hungary's disposal or the lack of access to the European Union's development resources. It would be a long list, and I will not name names on purpose now, because why should I be messenger to those left-wing and current Hungarian MEPs whose work focuses solely on the only thing that can create false OLAF procedures, and then how to make a bad name for the country in the context of the madness they have invented. All I have to do is remind you that you have had a heart-to-heart feeling when you talk about it, but I am wrong about the past time, you are talking about the fact that last week you were talking about giving the European Union's development resources to Hungary to the European Commission directly to the final users, and you should turn into direct Brussels resources the billions of euros of development resources that you, in your heart, wish not to reach Hungary. I would like to say once again that if these resources become direct resources in Brussels, this means that we will lose between 96 and 98 percent of the money we owe. You have proposed a separate proposal by Katalin Cseh and Anna Donáth, an amendment to Mrs Delbos-Corfield's new pamphlet last week, where they said that there should be direct resources. This means that Hungary's dedicated EU development resources will not be available to us, but will have to compete with the governments, small and medium-sized enterprises and healthcare institutions of 26 other EU countries in order to reach the money we owe. [[20.30]] And the greatest thing about this is that a country receives resources in proportion to its population or to the total GDP of the European Union in proportion to its economic performance. That's approximately 2 percent. The reason I said 96 percent is that all we would lose in relation to your outrageous proposal is because I say that we are twice as successful: we reach not 2 but 4 percent of the dedicated Hungarian money that becomes a direct source in Brussels. You propose nothing less than fun, good people, setting yourself up like this, rather than losing at least 96 percent of the resources that Hungary owes to it. And I think the exact number is 98 percent. You have not said a single word against the radical reduction of regional development resources for Central European countries and Hungary in the Commission's proposal for a new seven-year framework budget, which entered into force on 1 January 2021. There's only one! In the course of the debate on the framework budget in the European Parliament, neither a single DK representative, the single MSZP representative, nor the two momentary representatives, nor the better representative were able to submit a proposal. Other Liberals and Social Democrats in Western Europe had such proposals. The MEPs of the Hungarian left did not submit one such amendment. They were able to assist in compiling the Tavares report. They were able to play an active part in the fight, but in giving us Hungarians more money, they were not able to submit one such amendment in either the parliamentary commission or in the plenary session. And last but not least, the parole process. I do not want to repeat this because, as usual, the Minister has made it perfectly and precisely clear how well it is to initiate this conditionality procedure; in fact, the decision taken by the European Court of Justice in its action by Hungary and Poland has been taken into account by the competent EU body, the European Commission, or not. But one thing is certain: since the MEPs of the European Left, the MEPs of the Hungarian Left, have heard that negotiations with the Hungarian Government, which are supposed to offer a chance of agreement, are going to be held between the Hungarian Government and the European Commission, you are doing everything you can to put in place energy beyond their talents, strength and ability in order to prevent this agreement from being concluded. What the third Tavares-Sargentini-Delbos-Corfield report in the European Parliament last week, the third one in the European Parliament, in the debate of the political pamphlet which has accused Hungary of all ugliness, has been committed orally in the European Parliament, is all due to the desperation that you have felt that your political strategy has been consistently represented for ten years, a brief description of which is that the worse the situation of Hungary in the European Union institutions is for you, the better it is because you think that this will increase political room for manoeuvre for you, and then, sooner or later, it will be electoral support, and this growing voter support will reach the critical level that your support will be greater than Fidesz and KDNP support. That the opposite of this has been happening for ten years, that you have suffered an insane electoral defeat in 18, 18 and 22 after 10 years, according to my personal conviction, because the part of Hungarian citizens that does not sympathize with the operation of the Orbán governments at all, I also try to make a very subtle way of expressing a genius to them by the attitude of Hungarian Members of the European Parliament holding a position of confidence in Hungarian citizens against their own countries. This is what you will be punished for your election results. I do not shed crocodile tears because of this, I think, in a sense, it turns out that there are such moral thumb rules or fist rules in politics: anyone who makes a mistake against his own country cannot capitalise on it even in the short term. And yes, this desperation that there will be an agreement, there will be an agreement, this must be prevented somehow, because at the end of this, your hated political opponents, I must say, we, we will get along better, well, this has meant all kinds of hasty and flabby political action. My dear fellow Members, in spite of the vows they have made for weeks and months, if there is an agreement with the Commission against the evil Orbán Kort, with the Commission, if there is an agreement, then you here in the Hungarian Parliament will be enthusiastically supporting this, and you may want to be in it, but you will support this; in comparison with this, the Hungarian left, perhaps except for their ally, the Parliamentary representatives of Jobbik, has not been able to vote for a derogation from the house rule here in Parliament. In a technical, even procedural rule, they clinged pettyly, pettyly to the political idea of harming their own country. [[Interviews in the benches of MSZP and Dialogue.]] You guys had the nerve to do this while you were talking about how you're looking forward to an agreement, and then you're eager to support it. Dear House, Ladies, Gentlemen, Dear Members, Well, the good news is, if this is bad news for you, I have the good news that an agreement has been reached between Hungary and the European Commission. This agreement means the fulfilment of commitments made by the Hungarian Government, which also requires a parliamentary decision, and the support of the legislative proposals now submitted, well-founded, professionally correct legislative proposals can be expected from everyone who also feels little responsibility for removing any obstacles to the right of the community of Hungarian citizens to access the European Union's development resources for Hungarian citizens under the law. I don't want people to think I'm fake. I bet a great deal of money on the fact that most of the Hungarian MPs of the Hungarian opposition will not vote in favour of these bill proposals. You're holding the handle of the rabid axe in your hands, you're waving, you're going to get slapped in the nose, but that's your problem, and you're going to show the country-to-world that you're not interested in the rule of law, respect for European values, and you could still have those words and phrases for the rest of the day. The only thing you care about is your own political efforts. In this regard, once again, you have thought that if you can harm your own country as much as possible in European politics, it will increase your political chances. This, I think, is a political navel look. The negative consequences of this are for you to face. Thankfully, thanks to the wisdom and trust of Hungarian citizens, there is a Hungarian parliamentary majority in the representatives of Fidesz and KDNP who will be able to support and support these legislative proposals, even the points of amendment requiring a qualified majority. Thus, the commitments made by the Hungarian Government will be fulfilled in time. The obstacles to the removal of the obstacles that have been artificially put in the way of EU development resources will be removed, and the citizens of Hungary will not only be able to hit the year 2023 without losing resources, but also with the possibility of using EU development resources. In the hope of this, I would like to announce that the Hungarian Parliamentary Group of Fidesz supports the amendments tabled by the Government. [[Interviews in the benches of MSZP and Dialogue.]] [[20.40]] I understand that this was a serious excitement for you; believe me, I am more excited about the success of the Hungarian national team at the Puskás Arena tonight. To be honest, on the part of the soccer-loving Members of Parliament, I think this is a respectable sacrifice in any way that they are able to be here now and to take part in this debate instead of the Hungarian-Italian selection match. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-09-26-262	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Gergely Arató. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-09-26-263	Thank you very much. To be honest, I was impressed by Mr Tamás Deutsch, who finally got out of the European Parliament's one-minute time frame, this long and extremely entertaining storytelling with which there were two problems. One was that the bill had nothing to do with it, and the other had nothing to do with reality. On the one hand, it is not the subject of this debate and on the other hand it is not the time available, but I would like to reject one thing very strongly. Honourable Congressman, Your constant misconception is that you believe that the Orbán government is the same as Hungary. That's not true. You're not entitled to 50 percent of the votes. I have to tell you that a Democrat who believes that anyone who is an enemy of your government or an opponent should be more subtle is also an opponent of this country. The opposition part of Hungarian MEPs, as well as Hungarian MEPs here and MEPs speak and speak, if necessary, against the Orbán government, because they speak in the best faith in the interests of the Hungarian people, representing their own voters. Now, this is a much more serious bet than what Congressman Deutsch thinks of opposition MEPs, what his position is on democratic public life, or how he sees democracy where only Caesar and his team can be approved. Because it is indeed at stake here, and we agree with the Minister on this, that Hungary, the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian people, will have access to the European Union's resources, which we otherwise desperately need in this economic situation. This is indeed a very serious bet. But in order to have a chance to access these resources, the first step is to face reality. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This government has protested against a conditionality procedure, so to speak, as a rule of law criterion. This government has protested by all legal means against the condition that EU funds be paid in Hungary, as in all other Member States, to have a rule of law guaranteeing that these funds will not be stolen, these funds will not be given to businesses close to the government, these funds will not be wasted. In the country of Elios, the horse solarium and the two-inch viewers, Member Tamás Deutsch, there is no one who thinks that opposition representatives are trying to steal EU funds. It is your friends, relatives and business partners who have also triggered regular, frequent and well-founded criticism of OLAF, these European Union funds have sometimes been used in an irregular, sometimes unlawful manner, and at other times in a very partial and controlled manner. This is what the European Union has been bored with. Undoubtedly, around 2010, they were still amazed, they did not yet understand what this was about, political cynicism and how it should be said about a loose attitude towards public funds, or this level of a very specific attitude that your government has achieved, this was new in spite of the problems which some Member States had already experienced, and it was difficult to adapt to. But they've known you in ten years. You have followed this process, Minister, and you have also followed this process in different positions, you know that one of the main reasons for the introduction of the rule of law mechanism was concerns about the Hungarian and, moreover, the Polish rule of law. And these are not some kind of political attacks, but these are documented and demonstrable facts and problems that keep appearing. You have denied these at first, you have said that these are not true, this is a exemplary, wonderful rule of law, and there is no word of corruption here. Then, when it came to the fact that the European Union took it seriously and was serious about expecting the fundamental rights enshrined in the treaties to be respected, it expected Hungary to respect its commitments, then they slowly started to sideline. Then, when it turned out that there really wasn't gonna be money, if they weren't willing to do it, they suddenly realized that, well, it wasn't all as good as it was, or they realized that something had to be done. The problem is, you're still not being honest. Maybe not with themselves, but not being honest with the country and our European partners, that's for sure. The legislative package we have before us is proof of this. I wouldn't tear apart the entire bill package, just a few of the most beautiful ones. For example, the legislative law says that from here on out, we will need social consultation at 90 percent of the laws. The current legislative law provides for an impact assessment and social consultation for all laws, which you do not regularly carry out, or if you do so, you do so by inviting some friendly civil society organisations, other than the fake civil society organisations that you finance, and otherwise you do not listen to those actors who are supposedly or on the basis of experience who are also critical of the bill. I regularly ask the Legislative Committee to present the documents of these social consultations, to present the impact assessments, this will never happen. What do you say now? Well, they're gonna make three more papers to prove that there was actually a social consultation, but otherwise they're not gonna do anything. I could continue with my favourite, the integrity authority, or what they call it, because they feel that it would be an exaggeration even for you, where, in principle, an independent authority is created, but the President of the State Audit Office suggests that Viktor Orbán's man, the President of the Republic, appoints him, or Viktor Orbán's other man. Well, obviously, it's gonna be very independent, that's what we've seen, and you've filled all the independent institutions with party soldiers, and it's gonna be just as independent as the D.A.'s office today, for example, is independent under Peter Polt's leadership, and I could continue this line indefinitely. So, ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to go any further. Yeah, I'll tell you one more thing, because I can't stand it: you're saying that you're removing the obstacles to accessing data of public interest. How do they eliminate it? Well, by leading out the labor-based accounts, they say that otherwise there will be a government decree to tell you how much you actually have to pay and how much you have to pay. Well, they don't have to tell us that, so the government will, obviously, wait for the end of the Brussels procedure in their own way, you will decide that, yeah, but otherwise, there will be charges. The very thing that makes you uncomfortable is that there will be an award that will take away all the little Octonian inquisitives. So, I have to tell you, I would say that it is pathetic, but it is not the best; it is sad that they are still here, they are still there to believe that the European Union can make this thing smart. It can be solved, with a little sneeze it can be solved, and then we pretend, and then they'll pretend. I know that Minister Navracsics always tells us what a friendly atmosphere it is, and then we saw it, and they also deceive themselves and the country in this, too, about what the Commission has said. It was not an agreement, my dear Member, the Commission said that it would launch the procedure, propose to block the amount, and the Hungarian government has two months to prove that it is actually doing something. Oh, and I'm gonna tell you something about the bill, the way it was submitted, and why we didn't vote for this kind of procedure that you suggested. So the thing is, dear fellow Members, they do not face the gravity of the situation. That's what it shows, by the way, and that's what I just wanted to talk to you about, the fate of the bill. [[20.50]] You announced these measures in July. Gergely Gulyás stood up for a press conference and said that it would be this and this. Then two bill proposals were submitted, that's all right, the two less serious ones, let's add, not a stinky peep about the rest. Then, trying to do a little trick, Gergely Gulyás stood up on Saturday and said that we would submit the bill on Monday, but not before Sunday, by chance, so that the Commission would not see what you are trying to do and then did not submit it. Two were submitted, and the other two were not submitted, but waited until Friday, and then came to Parliament after they had completed the time: they replied to each letter at the last minute; all the proposals were submitted at the last minute. They came here and said, "Well, now we're asking for a derogation from house rules, and we're asking for urgency, because it's suddenly very urgent. Otherwise, Parliament could have been convened in September, even at the beginning of September, and even in August, because this was such an important issue, but it was not important at the time. It's a very cheap, very simple and very transparent communication trick to point to the opposition. You don't understand, and I'll tell you why it doesn't make sense. Because none of us can be sure that this trick you're trying to pull will work. Of course, they can try to play it again, try again that Tibor Navracsics is KDNP now, and maybe they like it better in Brussels. You can play these little games, and you can try to fool Brussels again, in case you ever buy it again, and we really want to be part of European values, but we just don't always manage to play. But there would be a fair way, and this fair way would be in the country's best interests. Really take action against corruption and the rule of law. If you say that there is no problem with corruption in Hungary, then let us enter the European Public Prosecutor's Office. I know it's not a mandatory condition. We just need to restore confidence. This could restore confidence, because if there is no corruption here, if you take action against corruption, then you have nothing to fear from the European Public Prosecutor's Office, then let the European Public Prosecutor's Office come, let us see that it turns out that the Hungarian prosecution is actually doing its job. Then don't play with OLAF's ability to investigate certain cases, but just so that one NAV person will take them from both sides I'm obviously exaggerating a little bit, but then let the European Public Prosecutor's Office investigate in Hungary. You say that there is a rule of law here. It's okay. Well, let's get back to the rule of law in the sense that there is an independent Attorney General, that there is an independent court, that not a man with no actual judicial experience is the President of the Curia, and not a former Fidesz representative is the Attorney General, so that would be helpful. Then let us create a Constitutional Court, which is not filled with politicians unilaterally, but into which, indeed, as in the former Constitutional Court of the Republic, legal practitioners who are in excess of any dispute are included, and which is given the power to judge your decisions in a constitutional sense, and not only is it working as a decapitator and a timer in this country. Then they will commit to independent media because this will be the next fight with the EU, because they will also begin to realize that there will be an independent media authority, that there will be an impartial public media. That's what we've tabled a bill for, and if you've told us to move past party conflicts and party points, that's what I'm asking you to do. If you think it is important for Hungary to receive these funds, if you want to be sure, then support our bill, support the bill that really restores the rule of law in Hungary, which deals with important issues, which do not want to trigger the rule of law with superficial false solutions and squinting. If that is the case, then we will be able to reach consensus. We are not partners in false solutions, replacement solutions, cheating Hungarian citizens. [[Dr. Tamás Deutsch: Since when? From now on?]]
u2022-09-26-264	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Ms Hajnalka Juhász. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-09-26-265	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Madam Secretary, First of all, let me respond to Mr Arató's comment: the European Public Prosecutor's Office was not one of the Commission's proposals. On the one hand, we have repeatedly said that it is a matter of sovereignty, and on the other hand, they know that they cannot ask, because there is no European Public Prosecutor's Office in Poland, Sweden, Ireland and Denmark in these Member States. So it is possible to think about it, but the 17 conditions that the Commission has practically laid down should not be extended, if possible, and let us work on making sure that the Hungarian people receive the money they deserve. As a result of the outbreak of the Covid outbreak in early 2020, urgent and coordinated response measures at both EU and national levels were needed to address the extreme economic and social consequences. To address these challenges, the European Union has set up the Restoration Fund, which is a financial assistance instrument, one pillar of which provides non-refundable support to Member States and the other leg can be claimed in the form of loans. According to the EU Regulation on the Restoration Fund, 70 percent of the non-refundable aid is to be agreed with the Commission by the end of this year. In order to access the Fund's resources, Member States had to submit a so-called national recovery plan to Brussels by the end of April last year. Hungary has complied with this and the Commission should cooperate closely with the Member State concerned when assessing the national plan. Under the Treaties, the Union and the Member States shall mutually respect and assist each other in carrying out the tasks arising from the Treaties. Hungary takes seriously its obligations under the treaties, as stressed by Minister, due to this fundamental principle of EU law of loyal cooperation. This commitment is reflected in both the text and the legal policy purpose of all five legislative proposals. Hungary, the Hungarian government, is in favour of dialogue based on facts, professional dialogue and constructive cooperation, and we follow a position focusing on solutions in the negotiations. The substance of the amendments to the legislative law can be assessed as a step towards better regulation by binding involvement of the Central Statistical Office in the norm-setting process. In the future, the HCSO should support, by providing official statistical information, the most thorough implementation of both ex ante and ex post impact assessments, which will help the legislator to have a better understanding and a more accurate picture of the environment to be regulated, thereby strengthening effective and better lawmaking, which, of course, is not an objective in itself, since it must ultimately benefit citizens. It should be pointed out that according to the proposal, the Act on Social Participation in the Preparation of Laws would be supplemented by the government's obligation to have 90% of the draft legislation covered by the Act for which social consultation will be carried out if published in the Hungarian Gazette. Furthermore, compliance with the obligations is reinforced by the fact that the Governmental Audit Office publishes an annual public report on whether or not social consultation has taken place in the case of draft legislation. In addition, the submission would give Kehi the right to control and sanction if, during its annual audit, he examined that the Minister responsible for preparing the legislation had complied with his obligation and, where appropriate, could impose a fine on the Ministry concerned. It is an important element of the bill, and I would like to stress that it would strengthen cases where there could be justified grounds for not consulting society. Therefore, it is not possible in future to rely on the outstanding public interest associated with the urgent adoption of the legislation. The proposal to amend the Act on participation in society in the preparation of legislation is therefore made up of two fundamental elements. One extends the government's obligation to bring 90 percent of legislative proposals into mandatory social consultation and, on the other hand, to impose sanctions in the event of a breach of this requirement. In order to reach agreement with the European Commission, in the context of the amendment of the Law on Criminal Procedure, I would point out that the legality of public finance management is a common interest, to be enforced by a completely new mechanism of procedure, which is unknown in Hungarian criminal proceedings, in fact a procedure of correction of charges is being introduced, which can in essence be initiated by anyone in order to reach a judicial decision on criminality. The main purpose of this new special procedure is, in the final case, to force the effective conduct of the investigation by means of a judicial procedure which is independent of the prosecution, and to give the court a final position on the issue of criminal liability on the grounds of the offence committed by the originator. [[21.00]] In the case of adoption of the proposal, a category of high-level criminal offences relating to the exercise of public authority or the management of public property would be introduced, which would not include exceptions, which is detailed in the proposed legislation - : corruption offences, misappropriation of office, property managed by national property or public trust funds carrying out public tasks, criminal offences detrimental to the budget, and cases of restrictive agreements that are more serious in public procurement and concession procedures, participation in criminal organisations and money laundering. The proposal also strengthens the system of redress that can be used in criminal proceedings. This includes, on the one hand, the possibility of a new category of review, so-called override, which may be presented by any natural person against the decision of the Prosecutor's Office or of the investigating authority, where the prosecution or the investigating authority has filed a complaint concerning a priority offence relating to the exercise of public authority or the management of public assets. It should be noted that, under certain legal conditions, it is also possible to re-submit a motion for review and, on the other hand, the proposal also provides for the possibility that, on the basis of a so-called indictment, if public law enforcement authorities are unwilling to do so or do not see it as justified, it will provide for the possibility for such persons to go to court. In order to reach an agreement with the European Commission, the amendment of certain laws concerning the National Tax and Customs Office on public procurement and public-service trust foundations is also affected by the accession of the European Union. The amendment of the Act on certain amendments to the law relating to accession to the European Union and the National Tax and Customs Office Act is intended to strengthen the obligation to cooperate with the European Anti-Fraud Office, OLAF, which was published in the domestic legal system even when our country joined the European Union. However, the law amending certain laws relating to accession to the European Union did not contain any procedural rules concerning the possible enforcement of cooperation or applicable legal consequences. Complementing the shortcomings so far, the proposal sets out the procedural rules for the possible enforcement of cooperation with OLAF and the applicable legal consequences, thus fulfilling the commitments made to the European Union. In addition, the proposal provides the support of OLAF's audit staff by Hungarian finance officers to carry out effective audits. It is important to propose an amendment to the Public Procurement Act, the final text of which is the result of consultations with the European Commission and aims to involve public-service trust foundations and the legal persons they maintain in the legal entities requesting a public tender. The amendment of the Law on Public Interest Trust Foundations provides for the addition of rules on conflicts of interest and for the strengthening of the essential requirements for the functioning of such organisations, such as integrity and the application of transparent and fair contractual procedures. The aim of the regulation is to prevent persons whose unbiasedness and objectivity are questionable in the decision-making and decision-making of legal persons maintained by foundations. Where it is found that there is a conflict of interest, the Foundation shall ensure that the data subject is not involved in the decision-making of the Foundation. In the course of the procedure initiated under the Conditional Regulation, Hungary undertook to implement several corrective measures in its response letter, taking into account the European Commission's letter of intent dated 20 July 2022. One of these was to lay down legal rules for the integrity authority and the anti-corruption task force. The integrity authority to be established is an autonomous administrative body, i.e. a central government administration which is established by law and operates only under the law, independent of the government from a budgetary point of view or can not be ordered in the exercise of tasks and powers; its task may only be imposed by law. The Authority shall be chaired by the President, who shall, in cooperation with the two Vice-Presidents, constitute the administration of the Authority. On 19 November 2022, the President and the Vice-Presidents shall start operations in respect of operations, following their appointment by 4 November at the latest. During the first six months of its operation, the Directorate-General for European Aid Audit shall provide technical support to the Authority and provide the necessary infrastructure to carry out secretarial and administrative tasks related to the establishment of the Authority. The other important institution to be set up by the bill is the Anti-Corruption Task Force, which would operate alongside the authority, but as an independent analyst, proposer, consultant and pre-decision body, which, in turn, cannot interfere with the Authority's activities. I consider it important to mention that the amendment of the law on information self-determination, government administration and certain regulatory issues relating to emergency matters is also included in the bill in connection with the amendment of certain laws relating to the control of the use of EU budgetary resources. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) In the context of the info law, the proposal contains provisions on freedom of information and aims to remove the possibility of setting compensation for the disproportionate use of the labour force from the info law system. It is also important that, with regard to the audit and integrity directorate, in the case of the Government Administration Act, the proposal would institutionalise this new body and lay down rules for its operation. I would like to stress that, under the amendment of the law on certain regulatory issues relating to emergency situations, the possibility of using 45+45 days in response to requests for data in the public interest would be removed. Finally, I would like to stress that this is the main objective of the bill to achieve a constructive dialogue with the Commission so that the Hungarian people receive the money they deserve. Here I would like to thank the Minister and all the colleagues of the Ministry of Justice for the sacrifice they have shown over the past few years and have put these five legislative proposals on the table. Thank you very much again. KDNP supports legislative proposals. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-09-26-266	Thank you very much for the speech by Mrs Hajnalka Juhász. I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Vajda, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Get up the stairs, you've got the mic, the pulpit. We're listening, Congressman.
u2022-09-26-267	Thank you very much for the floor. So, the Hungarian government has been fighting with the European Commission for more than a year now so that, in this EU budget cycle, it can have access to frozen development resources for Hungary so far. Well, there have been these initial vehement negotiations, but since the establishment of the new government, they have continued in a more diplomatic tone, which is not surprising in the light of the hardening global economy and energy environment. [[21.10]] In fact, the Prime Minister has added a special minister to the government in the name of Tibor Navracsics, whose main task is to bring the agreement to an end. And perhaps the European Commission is calling for more and more tough action against Hungary compared to the last decade. As a recent step, it proposes the withdrawal of HUF 3000 billion. The European Union Parliament has also shown similar hardness. In its last report, 73.5 percent of the representatives cast the vote stated that Hungary is not a state of law, but an election autocracy. These are the circumstances that need to be taken into account when examining the content of the legislative proposals. The question is not only that, but also that it is capable of improving the state of the rule of law in Hungary. However, no answer can be given to this question. Allow me, in my speech, to go through the five legislative proposals in substance, briefly, and I will also appreciate them. The government has, in total, submitted legislative proposals in three instalments so far, with which the government is able to agree with the European Commission on this certain suspended HUF 3000 billion, which is once again the EU's funding for Hungary and to pay them off. These five proposals concern the following issues. The first is to ensure social participation in the preparation of legislation. The second is to enable everyone to prosecute corruption crimes in criminal proceedings, the third is the involvement of financial officers in OLAF's investigations in Hungary, and the strengthening of political conflicts of interest in public-interest trust foundations. The fourth concerns the establishment of integrity to monitor the orderly use of EU funds, and the fifth concerns the simplification of data requirements in the public interest and the internal audit and integrity management. So, as I promised you, I would like to go through all five draft laws one by one, and I will briefly sum them up, and I appreciate how I see them. Let's start with the first one. This is to ensure social participation in the preparation of legislation. The explanatory statement of the proposal starts right from the start with an open lie, because it says, I quote, that the submission of the bill is made possible by the forthcoming positions of the government and the Commission, and that the presentation to Parliament proves that I once again quote you, the government is a true and professional dialogue based on mutual respect. [[Dr. Judit Varga:]] I quote you. This is therefore claimed by a government which, apart from formal cases, does not take into account opposition, civil or professional positions in its legislation. I would remind you of how the law on health care services had to be subsequently adapted several times because of professional indignation because it was not properly prepared. Similarly, the government is committed to professional consultation in the establishment of electoral rules, which was illegal for several reasons even in the current Constitutional Court during the legislative elections in 2022; or, for example, when they stigmatise and pursue civil society organisations on Russian samples or make small churches impossible to operate. The government is equally open to professional consultation with teachers, isn't it? The government's solution to this professional consultation is that it has openly deprived teachers of their right to strike for political reasons, and they are now threatening them. To sum up, therefore, there are a number of cases where the government's openness to dialogue can be seen in practice. This is in stark contrast to what is described in the bill. From a content point of view, the proposal, in particular its actual compliance, also cannot be taken seriously, does not represent a genuine intention for the Government to improve the quality of Hungarian legislation and social participation. So, the proposal would be capable of improving the preparation of legislation if the government showed any willingness to comply with the rules which cannot be enforced before the court, but this government does not show such willingness. In fact, they have explicitly reduced the professionalism of decision preparation. I'll give you an example, a quote. At an earlier event of the Eötvös Loránd Research Research Center for Social Sciences, Balázs Orbán, your State Secretary, explained that it is an explicit government concept to test laws and government ideas in practice and to draw conclusions on this. So the decision preparation and social consultation specifically he says, the Secretary of State, is an extremely undesirable element of government work. One of the most important examples of this is the impact assessment of the law on the publication of an agreement between the Government of Hungary and the People's Republic of China on the higher education activities of the University of Fudan. The impact assessment of this was less than half a page, and in this half-page the government settled this with the fact that Fudan University's activities in Hungary have no budgetary impact, the plan that costs HUF 550 billion, of which 450 would be loaned by China. It is also described as having no administrative impact and no other effect, despite the fact that it is based on the place of Student City, which has a huge social impact. But I'll keep going. This Fudan case also highlights another circumstance: that the 2010 CXXX on legislation. By way of derogation from the second subparagraph of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union shall lay down rules on the application of Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 17 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 1 states that all the effects of the proposed legislation, in particular its impact on social, economic, budgetary, environmental and health impacts, administrative burdens and the need to create legislation, the likely consequences of non-regulation and the personal, organisational, material and financial conditions necessary for the application of the legislation, should be explored. This is, therefore, a requirement already in place in Hungarian law that should be respected in the course of legislation. But I have just told you that the Fudan legislation quoted above is a good example that you do not meet these requirements at all, or that if you do, it is not a meaningful impact assessment, merely a formal statement on the fact that the impact assessment has been carried out. This is where the last important circumstance, i.e. what happens if the requirements of the proposal are not complied with by the government, should be highlighted. The answer is, briefly, nothing. There is no public-law consequence of non-compliance with the requirements described herein. In conclusion, the government does not have any legal obligation to force them to comply with these rules. Even if they seek formal compliance with the rules, it is enough to present their proposals which are not properly prepared with representatives, they always have examples of which, in which cases, compliance with the rules contained in the proposal is not formally mandatory. So this proposal is a trick for the government to show the intention to improve the EU without any real change in its content. In the content of the proposal, it is completely inadequate to achieve the EU's expected goal, thereby guaranteeing the availability of EU funds in Hungary. Here's their bill, T/706: in criminal proceedings, indictment of corruption crimes is possible for everyone. Well, here the European Commission has already noticed how many corruption cases have been blocked in the police force, but especially in the prosecutor's office, especially if the person involved in the case is, how should I put this delicately? He's closer to Fidesz than most citizens. Therefore, a proposal has now been made to ensure that, in certain cases, if the investigating authority or the prosecutor's office rejects the complaint or terminates the investigation, either citizen may be able to continue the investigation or the court may decide to prosecute. Well, the proposal lists which crimes fall within this priority area, by their summary name: priority crimes relating to the exercise of public authority or the management of public wealth. I don't read the legislation, there's a detailed list. There's nothing wrong with the list, by the way. The problems start when the citizen decides to initiate this special procedure. Let's go through what the citizen has to do, because it makes it difficult for the national to initiate the procedure by imposing a mandatory legal representation, which the citizen must finance from his own pocket, because, I quote from you: the citizen cannot submit an application for a cost reduction. [[21.20]] So no matter how poor the citizen who is outraged by corruption, if he is poor, he cannot take part in this procedure because he cannot have a protective lawyer. Another interesting fact is that if the originator accidentally misses a deadline imposed by law because, for example, he is sick or in a hospital or abroad, he should not even try to justify his failure, because I quote from the law that there is no place for a certificate because of the failure to comply with the time limit laid down for proceedings. So, if someone wants to attack a prosecutor's decision to terminate a case that he thinks is a corruption suspect, then they must be extremely observant. After all, you must know the case number, because the average citizen can only find what decision has been made on the website that can be searched for by the case number. The decision in the case in question, more specifically the extract of the decision, shall be published by the authority. However, this extract shall not contain personal data, nor shall it contain any information or wording on the basis of which it may be identified, whether natural or legal, from the extract. You have 15 days from the date of uploading to the website for the submission of the motion. So, what do you want me to say on these? The initiative will be able to overcome obstacles which are far from easy to overcome, and to submit a proposal for revision that meets the criteria, then two options will arise. One is that the investigating authority or the prosecutor's office will order the investigation or order the investigation to continue, and the other is that the motion will go to court. Well, in cases of this type, the Metropolitan Court of Justice shall act with a national jurisdiction within a month. If the investigating judge discovers a serious error in the decision of the authority or prosecutor, he shall repeal it and return it to the decision maker. The prosecution will, of course, be in charge of any subsequent investigation. Well, if we still haven't been able to get the investigation underway, then the person who submitted the motion for review earlier, if he hadn't given up fighting so far, may submit a retrial motion. If the court gives him the truth, then he says there's an opportunity to file an indictment. The indictment is essentially similar to an indictment. The court will examine this without holding a meeting, and if it rejects it, this will be the end of the effort so far, because the court's decision cannot be appealed against. So, if, for some reason, the court would not reject the motion, within two months, it would be decided that the accused person could be reasonably suspected of committing that crime. Of course, you can't hold a meeting at this time, nor, surprisingly, can you appeal your decision. If the proceedings are to be conducted with a meeting now, it does not matter to the originator how the court decides, because in the event of the defendant's dismissal, all criminal costs must be borne by the citizen. So, how do we appreciate this bill? Well, I gave you a sketchy description of the procedure. I think it can also be seen from this that you have created a freak who is consciously over-complicated, with administrative obstacles, placing undue burdens on the petitioner. To the superficial reader and to those who may be less familiar with Hungarian relations, it may seem that this is in a very circumstantial way, but it meets the European Commission's requirements, but the reality is that this is a bluff, because there will be no progress in corruption cases in the future either. This new procedure will do everything in its power to destroy the author of the motion in a bureaucratic maze and to threaten him with a very serious financial burden. The D.A.'s organization is a hierarchic organization led by a man named Péter Polt, who has so far been directing politically sensitive matters without making any progress. And with the occupation of the Curia, with questionable judicial appointments, with the introduction of a limited precedent system, the judicial authority is becoming more and more how should I put it? The NER grinds it up. Gergely Gulyás, Minister, says that Hungarian judges may be independent of themselves, but not of themselves, Fidesz. Let's look at the third law, the T/1202, the involvement of the finance officers in OLAF's investigations in Hungary, the strengthening of public-interest trust foundations and political conflicts of interest in citations. This proposal also includes provisions that can be classified into two categories in order to obtain EU money. On the one hand, the National Tax and Customs Office provides support for OLAF's investigations in Hungary at OLAF's request, which in substance means the presence of a financial officer during OLAF's investigations and the right to fine a million forints. The latter if the person examined is not liable to comply with his obligation. On the other hand, this proposal amends the rules relating to the public interest trust fund with a public service mission, laying down at a legal level that they are considered to be contracting entities under the Public Procurement Act, although the reasons for the proposal indicate that this is only a formal change and that it lays down more stringent rules of conflict of interest. I'd appreciate that, too, okay? Because the proposal is certainly inadequate to achieve the objective pursued, to provide EU funds, in particular to ensure them in full and in the long term. First of all, although the provisions ensuring OLAF investigations can be regarded as minimal progress, the proposal states at legal level that the financial officer may be with the OLAF inspector, and that I may use certain action and coercive means in the course of my investigation. The financial officer may remove the object which obstructs the measure and use coercive measures in the event of a breach of legal action. The problem, however, is that the NAV cannot be considered an independent body from which actual substantial support could be expected. In fact, one of the reasons why the rule of law proceeding against Hungary is that, in this way, the bodies responsible for investigating corruption are obviously not taking part, for example, in some cases when it comes to matters of political concern. The proposal is therefore undermined not by its content alone, but by the lack of independence of public bodies. Following this proposal, auditors joining OLAF's investigators will be able to play a decoy rather than a real assistance expert. My other problem with the proposal is how you deal with your public-service trust fund. I just told you in the summary that you have rules of conflict of interest. This is a general provision, however, which ignores the specific list of conflicting positions. According to the provision, and now I quote your proposal to anyone who is impartial, objective and impartial in carrying out his duties due to his economic interest or any other direct or indirect personal interest or circumstance, including, say, family, emotional reasons, political or national affiliation, is obliged to refrain from any activity which may be contrary to the interests of the Foundation or of the acceding, or of any other direct or indirect asset. I'm done quoting you. So, it should be pointed out that to whom this kind of bias or the appearance of bias exists, you must report it yourself. However, there is no rule for the detection of such conflicts of interest. This is a problem because it is the law on which the model is based, in accordance with Article IX of the 2021 Act on Public Interest Trust Foundations. Law 1 is based on non-compliance with other offices because of the Board of Governors and the Board of Supervisors, so there is a lack of established guarantee rules that would make this provision enforceable in substance in the event of non-notification. However, from a further perspective, the provision can also be seen that such a conflict of interest rule is purely incidental even if it is enforceable. That body, which decides on conflicts of interest, depends, let us say, on its political opinion. At this point, it is therefore important to point out that higher education institutions are the main stakeholders in the model change with public trust foundations. [[21.30]] As a result of the university model change, Hungarian higher education institutions have become such models. Numerous active, primarily pro-government and fidesz politicians have been put into university leadership bodies in this way. This happened in a way, and now I quote, it comes to the fact that the change of model also means the expansion of autonomy. Do you know who I was quoting? Stumpf from István. On your radio, Kossuth Radio, you said that on February 1, 21st. This can only happen if the organisation is truly capable of self-management, so it can function independently and independently of external party political influence. Fortunately, there is no problem here, because the government itself has set out the rules that can guarantee independence, since the T/1260 bill on the control of the use of EU budget resources, which we are discussing today, sets out strict rules of conflict of interest for the President of Integrity and his Vice-Presidents. I'm not going to read it, but it's in your law how much of a conflict of interest is guaranteed. Although such a strict prohibition may not necessarily be justified in the case of the university board and the supervisory board, these conflicts of interest rules could be largely adopted so that ministers cannot sit in these institutions, where they can display maximum political control instead of professional management. Let us look at your fourth proposal, which I have just quoted, the T/1260, which controls the proper use of EU funds, well, you call it integrity, setting up this, a new standing authority, an autonomous government administration. Well, the paper holds everything, so on paper it's independent, you know, only subject to law and EU law. On the other hand, you will set up an anti-corruption task force, which is a panel body that performs independent, analytical, proposing, opinionative and decision-making tasks, independent of the authority. This task force, as you propose, operates indefinitely and the task force cannot interfere with the activities of the Authority. Well, I would also appreciate this proposal, because it is also intended to reach an agreement with the European Commission as soon as possible. It is also reflected in the text of the proposal, who reads that some of its legal turns, the institution's independence guarantees, have been taken over from EU legislation at the same time. At first reading, it seems, therefore, that, for some reason, this authority, which has been baptized as integrity, is indeed autonomous, that the management will have professional experience, that the rules of conflict of interest are strict, that they will be able to investigate relatively widely, and the rest and the rest. Well, we live here. So the person who knows this country, as we have been used to since the 12-year-old Fidesz Regency, is not everything, because the content is extremely weak, so the authority will only have a window role, because the number of valid licenses is zero, because the integrity authority can mainly only be interested, ask for information, make recommendations and write reports. Whatever is suspicious, it cannot act on merit, but must signal to the appropriate organisation, say, the prosecutor's office, you know, which Peter Polt is leading, or to the Public Procurement Arbitration Committee, or to the Economic Competition Authority, which are also run by pro-government candidates. By the way, it says a lot that the authority may have the strongest license to suspend a public procurement for a maximum of two months. So that's as long as you can stop suspicious procedures on your own. I think the aim can be quite well read between the lines: on a paper, be an independent authority from the government, something that works well in many Western European states, in case EU decision-makers will calm down. That has been achieved so far. However, the government, as the author of the proposal, made an embarrassing effort to prevent the public authorities from taking action, to disturb a lot of water, and to continue to work without any major disruptions to the built NER public money pump. Finally, their fifth bill concerns the simplification of the T/1261, the public interest data request and the internal audit and integrity directorate. The purpose of this proposal is to ensure that the information law is adopted in accordance with Article 29 of the Information Act. The possibility of setting the compensation for the disproportionate use of the labour force provided for in Section 2 of this Article is excluded from the Information Act and that the remaining cost elements, such as copying or delivery costs, may be set by the Government in a regulation. The proposal also institutionalises the internal audit and integrity authority and lays down its operational rules. The Board of Directors operates within the government's organisation system, belongs to Tibor Navracsics's regional development portfolio, and its tasks are not beyond doubt completely clarified; it is assumed that the former ministerial bodies carrying out similar tasks will be included in an organisation. How do I appreciate this proposal? Well, so it's only one... is it a good word for beauty patch? By amending the info law, we are going to step back from today's scandalous rules of difficult public interest requests for data. This does not mean, of course, that in the future they could not ask for money for data, just that they no longer have so much. But the exact numbers of this are not known either, as they conveniently entrusted the determination of the sum bands to a government decree. Well, that's how I see these five billings. In conclusion, I see that no matter how much Tamás Deutsch yells and launches political attacks, it is actually a political bluff that we are talking about here. It is just like the Hungarian constitutional system, which, from a distance and squint, is fine by the letters of the law, but anyone who lives in this country and sees how the content works already knows that the problem is very, very big. There are very good promises in it, but there is little change in the content of the system. Thank you very much. [[Rebecca Szabó and Miklós Dawn applaud.]]
u2022-09-26-268	Thank you very much, Congressman Vajda. I give the floor to Congressman Miklós Hajnal, the lead speaker of the Momentum Group.
u2022-09-26-269	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Madam Secretary, Ladies and gentlemen, We've come to a rare moment. Not because the system of national cooperation has come to the realization that in Hungary, let us put it this way, there are problems with the use of public funds. The Prime Minister's son-in-law is certainly not going to buy himself in this country with light-lit lights; it is certainly not a stadium built at the end of the Prime Minister's house in this country; it is certainly not in this country that the Prime Minister's favourite gasman will be the richest man in the country in a few years; it is certainly not in this country that private equity funds are allowed to be stashed into which the stolen public property can be invisible and after that the entire highway network will not be played out for 35 years by an undertaking managed by such a private equity fund. No, that's not gonna happen in our little country, of course. But now they're submitting a package called anti-corruption. This is a rare moment, breaking up with the government's thinking so far. Did they realize that in 12 years they had built a public money pump? Have you noticed that they have shown harsh efficiency in ensuring that Hungarian and European citizens' taxes lose their common currency? Instead, should the Prime Minister's family and the chosen people of the system of national cooperation be enriched? Come on. All that happened was that reality came through the window. The mismanagement of the Covid crisis already led to inflation last year, and the energy crisis caused by Russian dependence hit the Hungarian people in the most vulnerable state possible. Your chaotic thief's government has not only delivered our country to an aggressive eastern dictatorship, but we have managed to reach an agreement with it that makes energy in the EU one of the most expensive in Hungary, not the fifth of the market price, as the Foreign Minister said. This dramatic situation has been enhanced by the uncertainty about the arrival of EU money because of your insatiable greed. We have said it many times before, and I will say it again, that if Fidesz were serious about anti-corruption for one minute, he would join the European Public Prosecutor's Office. There is no need for new authorities if there is already an existing EU body, which, by the way, is 100 times more credible than the government could ever create. It is completely incomprehensible why they are wasting time, therefore, with dewy proposals, when a truly credible step would have allowed EU funds to arrive long ago. So please don't point that at us. It is clear that your legislative proposals will not completely eliminate corruption, and this is not what the system of national cooperation will fail to do. Your delayed, forced and superficial gesture to restore the rule of law is briefly assessed as better than nothing. But don't be offended that we're not thrilled about it. [[21.40]] Let us take a look at what you think is appropriate and effective anti-corruption action, and why this is problematic. The package on social consultation 705 is difficult to take seriously, to put it mildly. In the proposal, the Government undertakes that 90 percent of the legislation covered by and published by the Act on Social Participation in the Preparation of Laws will take part in social consultation. However, in the absence of conciliation, the real problem was not the letter of the law. The legislative law already provides for conciliation, but this is bypassed through all kinds of loopholes. Not so long ago, the proposal to make nearly half a million clicks impossible was passed in less than 24 hours, four days after Gergely Gulyás was talking about social consultation at Gergely Gulyás's government info. Moreover, their current draft leaves the preparation of legislation in the special legal order untouched. This is also a concern because, for example, as long as there is an emergency, the new guarantee rules, which would ensure the effectiveness of social coordination, can be played out. With the proposal presented, therefore, we are hardly really getting any closer to a non-corruption Hungary, we are hardly getting any closer to more social dialogue, and this was entirely dependent on the lack of political will on the part of the government. This loophole could have been closed by you at any time. And they might close a loophole today, but apparently they're already preparing to open ten new ones tomorrow. The 706 package on criminal proceedings is already one degree more interesting, but it is still insufficient in this form. The prosecution is an important tool to circumvent and force the prosecution occupied by Fidesz; it was also included in Momentum's election program for a reason. By the way, the government admits that the prosecution led by Péter Polt is anything but independent. However, there are still many ways for different authorities to sabotage them in matters of importance. What's stopping the Polt DA's office from doing what I'm doing, dragging the case for eight to ten years? We see an example of this now. And how can you expect natural persons, ordinary Hungarian citizens, without investigative powers, to prove that the decision of the prosecutor's office is not justified? Of course, a real solution, as I said, would mean joining the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Let's keep moving. According to the T/1202 proposal, OLAF may request financial services from the National Tax and Customs Office to carry out an on-the-spot check or investigation. This is not a meaningful solution either, because NAV cannot be considered as a body under government supervision independent of the Orbán government, so it cannot be considered independent of the NER to be controlled itself, so the support of NAV can be used to make it more difficult to conduct an independent investigation. Let us not forget that we cannot trust the independence of the NAV in a country where tax inspectors are preferred to be harassed by political opponents and citizens criticizing the system. In addition, OLAF will have to apply 72 hours in advance if it is looking for assistance to investigate. I'm asking you, what's the guarantee that they won't call the NER riders from the NAV in 72 hours. Let's be honest, since OLAF's results have already been simply ignored by the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office, even if we are in good faith against the tax authority, it is only worth it that Hungarian finance officers can now invest in reports that are prepared for the desk drawer, because they will not have consequences, and will only be made public if the government allows them to do so. That's the problem. The T/1202 bill deals with the curatoriums of trust funds. At the same time, it is right to immediately forget, because these conflict of interest rules are ridiculous, even ministers can remain in the leadership of public foundations; Minister Navracsics himself said this in an interview last week. And although public-interest trust funds are added to the list of public procurement entities, this does not mean that public procurement cannot be played out in the already established ways. The addition is also a confession to the fact that originally state-owned, high-value and socially valued assets of our country have become a means of corruption for public foundations. This brings us to the package of 126 proposals establishing a brand-new integrity. I have already made the most important point: there is no need for a new authority when there is already an existing one called the European Public Prosecutor's Office. But in this we have debates, let's move on, let's look at this specific institution. If the government wants another authority, then at least it should be effective, we have this principle. According to the plan, the Director of the Authority can be appointed for four years and is controlled by the Ministry's leaders at the level of Deputy State Secretary, which gives the government the opportunity to intervene virtually on an ongoing basis. In addition, the Director is subject to one single report per year, which gives the Board of Directors an overview of its activities only by mistake. We've seen OLAF reports for the desk drawer before. We didn't do much good, which is why we need an institution that doesn't waste time on paperwork without consequences instead of law enforcement. So, if you're serious about this, then give the authorities investigative, investigative, incriminating powers, and eventually, the authorities are obliged to disclose the results of their investigations and related documentation so that no one can sneak away from people. The last T/1261 proposal is not a step forward, but a step back in the area of freedom of information. With the establishment of a minimum and a maximum band, the costs of data request may increase significantly, and Momentum has therefore tabled an amendment to this. I hope you will support this. Let us stop here for a moment, because it is also difficult to go without saying anything: you have hardly given time to submit the amendments. The extraordinary procedure was voted this afternoon, so we have plenty of five or six hours left to submit legislative amendments. It is a good thing that Momentum has a concrete idea of how Hungary could act as a rule of law, so during these five to six hours, we were able to work out and submit the amendments comfortably. I've got these right here. I trust what my fellow Member Zoltán Vajda said. I also think that this is a political bluff, but, frankly, I would like to call this political bluff down, and I trust that you can support these amendments if you expect us to support your proposal. To sum up, after a detailed analysis of the legislative package, it can be concluded that genuine anti-corruption proposals are hardly in place. The proposals were made by pressure from the EU and not by the internal recognition that they themselves have created a terribly corrupt system for their own enrichment. Of course, even more serious anti-corruption proposals would be difficult to reconcile with well-known government practices. It is enough to think only of the former Deputy Minister of Justice, Pál Völner, who has carried out the biggest government bribery scandal of the decade in front of you. So it would also be good for the secretary to act more forcefully against corruption, so she should be less concerned about where and from whom her deputies are taking over envelopes. It's nice to have your deputy in Parliament, though who knows where he'll be next. In any case, we are convinced that your current proposals will not solve the problems caused by systemic corruption, especially corruption will not be completely eliminated. Therefore, we already promise you and the Hungarian people, as Anna Donáth wrote, that we will be the first to test the newly created institutions and procedures. As soon as the integrity authority stands up and the new provisions enter into force, we will present the most brutal corruption cases in recent years, such as the Elios case that directly affects the Prime Minister's family, and the case of the program concerning your former Member of Parliament, the Bridge into the world of work. The test of the pudding is to eat, and the integrity authority to Tiborcz. However, the Momentum has been saying for months that the most important and urgent task before our country is to bring EU money home as soon as possible and give it to the Hungarian people. Therefore, despite our reservations, we will not put an obstacle to the bill if it is to secure these resources. From now on, however, it will be up to you when, how quickly you bring the money home, and if you finally get it, like almost all the other Member States, it will be up to you who gets it. In the midst of a crisis of livelihoods he has not seen for decades, when you have the money, there is only one right way to give it to people, municipalities, schools and hospitals. Everything else is inoperable. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Momentum.]]
u2022-09-26-270	Thank you very much, Congressman Miklós Dawn. The position of the Jobbik Group is presented by Mr László György Lukács, Mr Group Leader.
u2022-09-26-271	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, If you have a lack of feeling today about the Prime Minister's speech and the immediate questions, then that could be exactly what we are discussing here, close to the end of the agenda, and which is now a joint debate on five legislative proposals. [[21.50]] The Prime Minister, evaluating the past period, spoke about war, sanctions, and about the overhead, but said less, and did not say anything at all about the state of the rule of law debate and the return of EU funds. I would like it to be clear: I wish Hungary good. This means that we are not talking about the government, not about individual persons, but about all the resources that are due to us Hungarians, because it must be said that Hungary deserves what it deserves. Indeed, the withdrawal has affected everyone, all of us. If we have to count on one person how much money is at stake, we are talking about HUF 315 000 per person, and this is not a small amount of money, seeing the livelihood crisis, all the money in Hungary would be a good place. Even though we know that much of the EU funds have come in this way over the past period, unfortunately, a larger part of the EU funds has gone to multinational companies, typically with German ownership or Western developed countries, who were happy to take the same development money and bring it home to themselves, pumped it out in the form of profits. Another, well-identifiable part of it came to the development of businesses that are friends with the government or allied with it, and it was a very small part of it that really came to the smallest Hungarian businesses, whether they were Kft., whether it came to the development of individual entrepreneurs or companies or to the development of private people at home. However, it is time to admit, and perhaps a series of these legislative proposals is also a confession that there have been a lot of legitimate criticisms over the past 12 years. I have had the pleasure of hearing, in the third term, the constant criticisms that we have indicated in the debate on systemic errors in a bill, as we have indicated in relation to public finances, the secrecy of public data and the tendency behind it; everything that affected the purity of public life, and which is one of the criteria for the current availability of EU funds, and, if you will, was a criticism of filling the content of the rule of law. You always say that the rule of law does not actually have an exact content. But we all feel that there are content elements that, if you don't tell us, you have a sense of absence. One, beyond the media, is how we treat public money and how transparently, how accountable it is. The European Union has a legitimate expectation of Hungary, and you are now trying to do so, and it seems very much that you are forced to do so, not necessarily out of your own will, of good intentions. It is, of course, possible to say that this is the way European winds are, again, that this was not what they promised in the European Union, as Mr Orbán said that this was not what they promised him with regard to sanctions. All you can say is that whoever's been there for 30 years, and it seems like he's still gonna be there for a while, it's a little steep to cover up by being conned. The thing is, they're gonna have to do it right now. She said in her exposé that the negotiations were successful. But with whose success? You forgot that. He hasn't declared a winner in this race. We would like to talk about the success of Hungary, not the Hungarian Government, not the European Commission, but the Hungarian people. We want Hungary to succeed, and therefore Jobbik supports the proposals that help Hungary and the Hungarian people to access the resources. Of course, you could have been more constructive at home in the past few days. There were countless debates when the Secretary of State, Mr Répássy, was here at the time, and after a brief break he returned to Parliament again, but he also remembers these debates. At that time, half the constructivity did not appear in relation to the same legitimate criticisms that you now had to put in the bill. However, let me deal with one of the most important areas, I think, that is T/1260. Perhaps one of the most important foundations, the most important element of the bill, around which the whole debate can be built. Therefore, allow me to present some opinions and some of my views on this matter to you. We remember that on 10 May 2010, at the inaugural session of the Parliament, Viktor Orbán inspired the people who welcomed the change of government as follows. Most of his followers rightly had good hopes for the time that would come. Quotes:, We will overcome real estate problems, the techniques of abuse of power, the attempts to escape responsibility. We will defeat the practices of the offshore knights and undeserved government payments. We will defeat corruption and waste of the nation's capital. We will overcome the past, because Hungary has decided uniformly to defeat it. The momentum, however, was relatively quickly broken by Prime Minister, and in 2010, you promised to do so, and you failed to account for those responsible, hundreds and thousands of billions of people migrated more private, and they never found their way back to the state register. Instead, all-inclusive, industrial-scale corruption has been built, and instead of counting and detecting public finances and public finance before 2010, nothing has actually happened but to channel these activities to themselves. Hungary's Fundamental Law entered into force on 1 January 2012, in which it was laid down in Article 39:. Payment from the central budget may only be made to an organisation whose ownership structure, structure and activity for the use of the aid are transparent. Győző Concha, a major representative of Hungarian public law science, professor, member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, once said that all constitutions and the Fundamental Law are worth as much as they are implemented. Well, we've come to the point where we had to fight with stromones and offshore companies in January 2012, and where we've made significant criticisms, you've chosen, despite criticism, a path of unscrupulousness and arrogance, and you've made a big deal of criticism. We need to remember how long ago it was in 2013, when Jobbik confirmed, presented and presented to you by setting up the offshore task force and asking questions, organisations with unknown owners listed in Cyprus or in Marshall Islands, Gibraltar, Seychelles or British Virgin Islands or other exotic countries, which, despite multiple legal bans, received EU grants of HUF 10 billion. Although we have not been answered on any occasion, we have achieved so much that this situation in the then Ministry of Development has become unsustainable, the National Development Agency has been removed, and the Ministry has seen the situation a little better. Why do you have this long opening? Well, that's because you've had a bad record for a long time, we can say that you've had a long history of poor performance in the method of accounting for public money and how much transparency you choose. The deterioration of the rule of law in this section now has decades of experience. However, I am sincerely afraid that the proposal before us will also come to the conclusion that it is not lacking in sound words, but that there are criteria in the complicated benefits that are circumstantial, most of which will be impossible to implement, which cannot be complied with. The European Union will think that these can be observed, that you can do this, but in fact, the language, knowing your attitude, will result in us not getting any further ahead. There may have been criticisms of the independence of the authority. It must be said that the appointment of the President, his deputy presidents, on a proposal from the President of the State Audit Office, by the President of the Republic for a period of six years, is far from reassuring when the head of the State Audit Office is given by your former party. We are talking about László Domokos, with whom Jobbik has had serious debates for a long time, with the State Audit Office, now not with László Domokos, but with László Domokos before that. I believe that this can also be expected with regard to the new President, although, if I remember correctly, he promised in his own seat booking or interviews that he would perform independent activities, in fact, there have been very few changes in the way the system is set up, in your person, and so we can't expect anything new from him. We also know exactly what corruption mechanisms have been developed in relation to grants. There were a series of cases involving representatives in your benches, and it was not uncommon that the contractors had already proposed the project itself, that they had appeared with a petitioner at the sites and in the compilation of the applications and that they had determined in advance what to apply for at all, the majority of the municipalities in the otherwise vulnerable situation and the other vulnerable entities of the applicant. [[22.00]] And what will you do in this case with integration [[Sic!]] authority as suggested by you? First, it is obliged to make a recommendation and then, if this does not result, it may initiate proceedings by the competent body or court, in particular in the event of a public procurement infringement, by the authority of Kbt. it may initiate the procedure of the Public Procurement Arbitration Committee in accordance with its corresponding point. The problem is that any player who has not won a public procurement procedure has so far been able to appeal to these bodies, but in no case have these processes prevented corruption, market distribution and the full distribution of the market between individual professional operators. You have not presented this whole legislation to the Parliament because you want to break up with abusive practices so far. The reality is that for the first time, they felt that we had actually reached the negative level when there was already a danger of drawing individual funds. However, there is another uncomfortable subject, which you have not told us: despite any proposals you have put forward to us, adequate support and only one forint of EU support can not come to our country, because the European Commission must conclude a partnership agreement with our country. In line with the EU's seven-year budget cycle, this Treaty will address the way and practice of using the EU's development resources allocated to the Member States, and, until this document does not exist, it will not be possible to use EU grants. Based on the situation and the experience of the previous cycles, we can see that Hungary has not been included in this list even in the fourth version, and Hungary is one of the very few countries that has failed to reach a point in the partnership agreement, and we can see that even after there is an agreement, it may take months, but at best, weeks for any source to arrive in Hungary. In all these cases, it is also worth clarifying, Mr Secretary, where our agreement is now, where it will remain and when it is expected. To sum up, we also see that the government has been struggling, hasty and is in a state of compliance. This proposal alone and not integration [[Sic!]] It will be an authority to overcome real estate problems or the techniques of abuse of power, or even attempts to escape responsibility, as the Prime Minister predicted a long time ago, 12 years ago, because it is only suitable for one thing: in some way you prove to the European Commission that they are compromise-making. On the other proposals, perhaps one of the most important arguments that should be mentioned is that the coronal virus epidemic and subsequent emergencies have also pointed out that what they are thinking about, so to say, the community, the information of the people, and here I am thinking about the public interest data that can and should be requested, was on a straight track, in the midst of continuous narrowing, difficulty and obstacle roll-arounds, to the fact that it is almost impossible to learn data of public interest in Hungary. In this context, he added to the wrong trend, as I said, the corona virus epidemic, and the fact that emergency governments followed one another, if you will, that Viktor Orbán steered the country from an emergency to an emergency. This is not only the position of the European Union, but also the unbroken position of all opposition parties, Jobbik, in the unbroken position of breaking public interest data... Otherwise, trust in public life and the credibility of public life can be restored through public interest data if the State has nothing to hide from other authorities, civil society organisations or, by the way, representatives or individuals, and everything that is possible must be presented to them as widely as possible. The issue of the transparency of Hungarian public life is now a decade-old problem, and you have always taken it in the wrong direction. Perhaps, if for nothing else, it would be worth voting in favour of these legislative proposals. I would like to point out that Jobbik will never and never stand in the way that Hungarians are not talking about the government and receive the resources they deserve. We may have said this in public before, but if I have to say it, the government will be able to handle these billings here, but we are asking you to respect these terms, whether you are honest or not. We will keep in mind that you will comply with this, and do not be surprised if you are back on the sidelines, if you want to avoid the rules you have made yourself, we will salt it there, and we will tell you what was wrong with it. We will draw attention to it, and not because we want to harm the Hungarian people, but we owe it to Hungarian public life to arrive in Hungary. We owe the Hungarian people, and you finally owe us an admission that, over the last 12 years, there has been significant criticism, which has been expressed as a legitimate criticism not only on the opposition side but also on the side of civilians, lawyers and other people committed to public life. They should finally get a confession, even at ten o'clock in the evening. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition ranks.]]
u2022-09-26-272	Thank you very much, Mr. László György Lukács. The Dialogue Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó.
u2022-09-26-273	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Here at this late hour we are discussing a very important legislative package. I would like to say this in advance because, unfortunately, Mr Tamás Deutsch is no longer here for us, because in any case we have forgotten that this is an EU agenda, and that is where MEPs are. To me, it is a particular experience that his speech has caused me, in some respects it may be a pity that he does not appear in the Hungarian Parliament more than once, because it is certainly an interesting stain on his style, and also on the ideas he raises here mostly about the opposition, I don't know, I feel that the Member's perception of reality is somewhat impaired. In particular, there is much to talk about, but perhaps only one sentence: here came Tamás Deutsch, that the opposition is a crime against his country, and the opposition does not want the Hungarian people to receive EU funds. This has been denied by several opposition fellow Members, and I will do so now: we would very much like to have EU funds. If this is already the case, who is the one who has sinned against his country, then I think that the government is the one who, because of his behaviour, is ruining the rule of law, the proliferation of corruption in Hungary, so, for whom this procedure had to be initiated at all, and for whom Hungary is practically the only one where the money still does not come in, the serious thousand billion forints that Hungarian citizens would otherwise deserve, because of the various EU agreements, contracts, recovery funds and so on. The fact is quite simply that we are here at this late hour and we are discussing these legislative proposals, because the Hungarian government is a crime against its country, the Hungarian government, the Fidesz-KDNP government, including Mr Tamás Deutsch, is a crime against its country and the Hungarian people, and the Hungarian citizens are drinking the consequences of this situation. In my speech before today's agenda, it has already been well said that the Fidesz government is making cuts, raising taxes, raising gas prices, raising electricity prices, so it is doing all kinds of bad things to people, and partly because because of its own incredibly bad governance, we are not getting the EU funds that could otherwise replace holes in the budget. And why don't we get it? Because the Fidesz-KDNP government has been stealing these money for 12 years. And the reason we are here is that they are trying to save what can be saved, because the European Union, the Commission, after a while, has become hard-core and said that no, we are not giving Hungary money so that the Mészáros Lőrincek, the Tiborcz Istváns, and all kinds of stromans and interest groups close to the other governments can move into the pockets of the Mészáros Lőrincek, the Tiborcz Istváns and the other governments; they do not want to pay a lot of money for this. So now we stand here and look at these billings. Obviously, if these will be sufficient for Hungary to receive the money, then it can be said that they obviously have some meaning, but I would like to join my fellow Members who have, however, seriously criticised these legislative proposals. I must admit that the Group of Dialogue also has strong doubts that now, if we accept and accept them, this will be enough for any substantive change to take place in Hungary, whether in terms of the rule of law or legislation, or in terms of anti-corruption in particular. I have very serious doubts about this. [[22.10]] In fact, the law on legislation, the law on social participation, could also be welcomed if I did not see the government making a big deal, how shall I put it, on its own proposal, to try to put it nicely. Remember that summer when the bill on the abolition of the catalog was practically brought in and discussed in one day? Or maybe it's one-and-a-half. The Fidesz government was very generous at the time. So this is actually the ridiculous category. Now you can say, "Oh, no, but when they do, it won't be like that, and I'll say, "Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, I think it is very, very sad, what the Hungarian government is doing in itself, that it does not deal with the social opinion at all. But let's just say, I know, of course, that it's just a regulation, not a law, but what is about abortion tightening, the heart-sounding regulation that Sándor Pintér had published under the radar, and there was no consultation there, either with social groups or with professional organisations. He was supposed to be with an organization that turned out to be out of existence. So that this is a social reconciliation of the Fidesz government and regardless of the content of a proposal, I do not think that this is how laws should be made over the heads of people. And then, right, there's the law on criminal proceedings. I would also like to point out here that the idea is not bad in itself, because it would be important for any citizen to be able to continue investigating a particular case when, say, the investigating authority or the prosecutor's office rejects it, but it is so difficult that, in practice, a citizen who is applying for a review is required to have a legal representative, but cannot ask for a discount. It has also been said that if he accidentally misses any deadline, he can't justify it by saying that the poor thing was in the hospital. All costs that arise because the defendant, for example, is hearing impaired or visually impaired or does not know Hungarian and therefore needs an interpreter, so all such costs will also be paid by the person who is the accuser and not by the state. So, technically, they make it extremely difficult for this bill, which may well sound in its title, to fulfill its mission. It's practically impossible to go through with this civil override motion, we think it's a wrinkle job, a very bad bill. I very much hope that this will be fixed before the appropriate forum of the European Union looks at this. Then they have a bill for public foundations. I would like to point out here that the principle is okay, of course, because the Dialogue has also said many times that the dear government has shown a sign of panic when, before the previous election, it suddenly tried to save all its assets into public foundations. They were afraid they might lose the election. Unfortunately, this fear turned out to be unfounded, which I regret very much, but that does not save us at all the fact that the money was tried to be swept out into various trustees and other foundations. Here, they're trying to deal with a conflict of interest, which, in my opinion, is being mistreated. We were hoping that the ministers and State Secretarys would get out of these curatoriums, but this practically didn't happen, but they only indicate a kind of conflict of interest: who will not take part in the decision-making process. But then I don't know why they're in it. We will present an amendment to this so that public foundations or trust foundations with ministers and State Secretarys will not be able to receive state aid. Let's get this straight, okay? So this is how we try to isolate it. Then, obviously, this integrity is a very important element of your package of proposals. It was also said here that, in truth, we should have joined the European Public Prosecutor's Office in principle, and I think it is very clear that the Hungarian Government is protesting against this with its hands and feet. Obviously, they don't want an outsider independent to investigate their various corruption scandals. Integrity could have been named by some anti-corruption authority, and they didn't dare do that. Because it is interesting that the Fidesz government constantly insists that there is little or no corruption in Hungary, at least almost no government members are not involved in it. Now, how strange it is, they have to deal with this issue after all. In any case, I believe that there are more weaknesses in this proposal. One of its weaknesses is, for example, that the authority cannot exercise its powers in a case in which it intends to act if an appeal procedure or judicial procedure by the Public Procurement Arbitration Committee is pending. This could, in fact, mean that by initiating such a false procedure, the work and procedure of the authority can be prevented. The Dialogue will want to eliminate this in an amending proposal. We would also like this authority to be able to examine the family's declarations of property, or if the European Anti-Fraud Office had such a prior right of agreement when selecting the members of the eligibility committee. So somehow we want the European Anti-Fraud Office to be involved in this process. But the truth is, the Dialogue has already submitted its own anti-corruption package. We have just done this again, updated, by the fact that we knew you were working on some anti-corruption package. That's what I'd like to draw your attention to. One: even if it is not about the European Public Prosecutor's Office, because we know that you are not willing to join it, it is about a Hungarian anti-corruption prosecutor's office that is proposed by the Dialogue, this is a concrete bill that explicitly enforces the state's criminal needs in the case of corruption crimes, and this is what you are trying to establish so that an independent authority, an organisation, a prosecutor's office, can act on these matters, and this organization would have very strong powers to do so. Well, we'd like to see a filing protection office set up. It is very important that, in the case of anti-corruption crimes, the whistleblower, who might expose someone, is protected, and citizens are not at risk in this regard. That is why we want citizens to have confidence in this anti-corruption prosecution, for example. We would also like to regulate in detail in a bill how public interest protection procedures and the protection of whistleblowers could be implemented. With regard to integrity, we also have an amendment that, if I accidentally included the anti-corruption proposal of the Dialogue in a series of subjects and, by the way, the Parliament would accept it, we would like the anti-corruption prosecutor's office to stand up from 1 January 2023; then any infringement that the integrity authority is investigating should also be transmitted to this anti-corruption prosecutor's office, so that there should be an organic link between the two authorities and institutions. I think that we can fight corruption more effectively in Hungary. Of course, this would be possible if the Fidesz-KDNP government were to be serious about this goal and not just intended for some kind of polish in order to get the money. Again, on behalf of the Dialogue, I would like to reiterate that we would very much like the Hungarian people to have the money that is due to us, the EU funds, from which this country could develop further. For the record, it's not the teachers' wages, it's another rather shady argument that suddenly the government is worried about educators' wages when it comes to EU subsidies. The government's spending is showing us exactly how it can pay teachers even if this EU resource does not work. So it's a very persuasive suggestion that the two are connected. Nevertheless, the Dialogue would very much like Hungary to receive these funds. But he also would very much like it to be available to the Hungarian people, for example, for example, this could have been used to insulate residential buildings in the last 12 years, but this has not been done, or renewable energy capacities could be developed, since we are already facing an energy crisis and a climate crisis. So such very important things could be done if we didn't have to worry about this money wandering into the pockets of Fidesz-near oligarchs and all sorts of stromones. So in this spirit, I will ask the government and the Fidesz-KDNP fraction to accept at least the proposals for the amendment of the Dialogue, because I believe that this could significantly improve the legislative package that you have just tabled. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]] [[22.20]]
u2022-09-26-274	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó. I give the floor to Congressman András Imre Jámbor.
u2022-09-26-275	Thank you for the floor. My fellow Members, the situation is bad, and I am not thinking that it will lead us to 2:0 against the Italian national team, but I am thinking that there was an opportunity here, when it could have been done at the same time to get the EU money, and it would have been possible to fight corruption at the same time. This opportunity has not been missed by the Hungarian government, because the Hungarian government does not want to fight corruption, it is clear for 12 years, this opportunity seems to have been missed by the European Commission, or by the Council, when it refuses to impose conditions that really serve to combat corruption. You are absolutely right that the European Union's money is due to Hungary, but they do not belong to the government, but to the Hungarian people. This is what this proposal should be about, so that these funds do not disappear, so that they do not migrate to oligarchs, that they do not disappear into different fake investments, which have already been listed here, but to make investments, improvements and operating costs that otherwise help everyday life in Hungary. It is a good thing that we talk about the fact that there is corruption in Hungary. By the way, I think that hasn't happened in the last few years to argue about legislative proposals in which the government recognises that there is corruption. Only if we are talking about the rule of law in addition to corruption, let us mention that we are sitting here during the Hungarian-Italian selection match in Parliament, here are four of my Fidesz fellow Members, in two hours or maybe in three hours we will have the debate, the debate of five legislative proposals, which would otherwise settle the situation of the Hungarian rule of law, the situation of Hungarian corruption, and the arrival of Hungarian EU funds. We shouldn't have done this in three hours, we would have liked to have come in on Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays to argue about these laws. And it really doesn't have to be a better demonstration that you won't even be willing to let the Hungarian society, at least who watches parliamentary mediation, hears it from Facebook posts, or I don't know how, at least know something about what the Hungarian government intends to do about corruption. You're hiding this from me, and you're hiding it by saying that this is how this debate is held. The thing is, you should look at it, or you should look at it in this situation, who's interested; that's always the question. What I see now is that in this situation there was a deal, a pact, in which the Hungarian government agreed with the capital of the central countries. I dare to place a large bet on the fact that last week's government info announced measures on factory subsidies, where Gergely Gulyás talked about energy saving investments for the factories, or the job protection action plan will not go to Hungarian companies, or if he goes to Hungarian companies, it will be called Lőrinc Meszá-ros and István Garancsi, but, to a large extent, this money will go back to the centre countries through the large companies of the center countries. They're taking the capital out to the center countries. Orbán talked about this a few years ago, that there could be a riot here, and I think he is right about what Hungarian funds are going to do, and who is paying and not paying in the European Union, but what we need to see is that these large companies are taking an enormous amount of capital out of Hungary and bringing it back to the central countries. What I see is that this deal was born, and this is what is happening here, in effect, that the Hungarian rule of law, the Hungarian anti-corruption action, has practically been replaced by the leaders of the central countries in a capital investment. We do not have to look at it, and that is precisely why this agreement, which the Commission has concluded with the Hungarian Government, is good, but we have to look at what an agreement is, and so we have to submit amendments, and this is how we have to say what the situation is, of which we can squeeze the most out of for the Hungarian people here. Unfortunately, we know that you will not allow this, because you have the sovereignty of power that is important to the sovereignty of the people. If the sovereignty of the people were important, then, for example, these notifying proposals would not be made to make the right to notify ordinary citizens difficult at a level that would actually fit in with a Monty Python-sketch. Actually, you guys could practically pull out the wonderful molino that you may have taken in the 2012 peace procession that we're not going to be a colony! This package of laws, this package of decisions, should not, let us say, be stretched out before the masses of Kossuth tér, but here, in front of the pro-government benches, because this package of laws, this package of decisions is really and exclusively about protecting your power, protecting the system of corruption, about how to tie a deal with the capital of the central countries in which Hungarian workers are sold, selling out Hungarian labour law. I always say the wonderful report of the German Chamber of Industry here, which is about the fact that it is good to invest in Hungary because the salaries are low, because labour law is weak, and because there is basically only one improvement in how skilled workers have become by the fact that the temporary agency labour force has flowed heavily into Hungary. The problem is that this deal that we see in these five legislative proposals is that if the Council and the Commission say yes to this, this deal actually concretes this system, and we do not really see how it will be better for Hungarian citizens. The fact is, however, that we are obviously faced with a very difficult dilemma by the Council, the Commission and you. The dilemma is that we should say yes to a completely wrong package of proposals, and this is how EU funds come in, and there is no guarantee that this will otherwise get to the Hungarian people, Hungarian citizens, that it will not go down in corruption. Or if we vote 'no', then we really vote 'no', but it is your framework that we do not want EU money for Hungary. We want EU funds for the Hungarian people in a legislative package that ensures that these funds go where they need to go. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause from the LMP and the Dialogue.]]
u2022-09-26-276	Thank you very much, Congressman András Jámbor. I now give the floor to Mr István Apáti, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Group.
u2022-09-26-277	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I have listened with great interest to the debate between the Fidesz-KDNP and the Balliberal side here, and if I hadn't lived my entire life in this country, I would have thought, or my delusion could have been, that one is evil incarnate, and the other is good incarnate, although we are there and the truth is that one of the best countries in Europe, perhaps inhabited by the most diligent people in Europe, is one of the poorest Member States of the European Union, which you, honourable Fidesz-KDNP and left-wing representatives, have put together in co-production. Obviously, this responsibility is not equal, as Fidesz-KDNP is clearly responsible for the damage over the last 12 years. But there is also a strong truth in those words that you consider, honourable left-wing Members, EU support, with a little war logic, as if it were a kind of war power for government policy or for the economic forces behind the government. There is no doubt that there is partial truth in it, and you are trying to bomb this route with a little Russian logic, that it is okay to destroy the country, it is okay to destroy farmers, businesses, many decent Hungarian entrepreneurs and Hungarian workers, and that is the only way you think that you can get back into power sooner, you can get back the power you lost 12 years ago, and whose main responsibility is Ferenc Gyurcsány, who is sitting in this Parliament right now alpha male on the left, not right now, at this moment, but otherwise, the dominant player of the left, alpha male on the left, practically blows the pass wind; it is what he wants, and as long as he is in this position, full security for Fidesz-KDNP that will never once again get back into power, no matter how hard they are. So there's some weird stuff coming out here. [[22.30]] It is also admittedly a fact that during left-wing governments there has been a grossly visible level of corruption, but it is also true that this Fidesz-KDNP has become an unbeatable champion in the last 12 years, which does not want to notice these systemic corruption phenomena. You must also see that you have practically retreated in this freedom fight. They practically backed down against Brussels, and now not very high-quality and not very meaningful, but rather salt-office institution-like proposals have been put on the table, which are likely to be kind to Brussels eyes. Because as I look at it, Brussels comes from the logic that if we produce some low-efficiency legislative proposals, we produce some government regulations, various regulations for the desk drawer and the shelves, then we solve all the problems in one blow, and there was corruption, there was no corruption. Obviously, it doesn't make anything better. The introduction of a procedural fine and a fine in the law provides for a minimum period of eight days for social consultation, providing for a minimum of five days for the processing of professional proposals and opinions that may have been received by accident, which is not enough. Such time limits are extremely short for the real discussion of serious, comprehensive legislative proposals, and the fact that ministers will be monitored by the Government Audit Office and at least 90 percent of the legislative proposals will have to be run through such reconciliation, believe me, nothing in itself will be better. Just as the amendment of the law on criminal proceedings, which is also regarded as a window institution, is rather weak and very complicated. I am very curious that if, say, in a year or two, we look at the fact that we are going to turn to the competent ministers about this with a written question, with an interpellation, in how many cases they have used the current possibilities and legal institutions of the amending package of the Code of Criminal Procedure, then I am willing to bet on a very large amount of money that we can count on one hand how many of these things have happened. And how much of that will be successful will be even easier to aggregate in even less time. Then there is the public procurement law, which would otherwise be an incredible opportunity, since thousands of billions of forints are spent every budget year through public procurement channels. It is almost the only way to spend EU funds, but a number of national, explicit national resources and tendering support schemes require procurement procedures. And indeed, systemic corruption breeding within the public procurement system is almost undisturbed and undisturbed, but I have not heard one suggestion from left-wing representatives other than everyone moaning about the extent of corruption, what can be done, say, by exploiting the potential of amending the public procurement law to reduce corruption. I am not saying that our country's movement has all-encompassed, perfect proposals, but that if our proposals were to be considered, we would certainly be much further ahead, I would certainly say so. It would be much more effective, of course, not in such a harsh inflation environment, in normal economic circumstances, let us say setting specific cost limits in order to ensure that only fair entrepreneurial benefits remain in the system, especially in the case of service orders or works, and that there is no way to keep the real supply of war, which is then the financial basis for political or even economic redistribution. Or, although nothing would rule out the application of this right now, the legislator does not affect the direction in which, in the case of works, the number of locally employed workers, trained workers, ministerial workers and skilled workers who are permanently resident in a given settlement, district or region, is decisive in the establishment of criteria for the most advantageous tender, especially in the case of large municipal or public infrastructure investments. In Hungarian: only an entrepreneur can win a large construction project, which undertakes to employ skilled workers and auxiliary workers as many of the workers in the area as possible for the entire duration of the project. In this case, these people should spend the vast majority of the resources on their wages or commission fees and would not stay, or there would be much less money left to finance the various paybacks that have already been very well known for the last 32 years. This may be particularly important during the current crisis period, which has been embedded in the Covid pandemic, and which has then been culminated in the Russian-Ukrainian war, namely, the Russian-American or Russian-West conflict in the Ukrainian territory, as unemployment is expected to rise significantly, a significant fall in construction is expected, as a huge amount of public investment is postponed, torn and suspended. Much less labour will be needed, especially in the capital and large cities, but also in rural small towns. In many cases, inadequately trained or only partially trained labour flows back to rural areas where public security will be virtually unsustainable. In such an environment, not to take advantage of this possibility given by the Public Procurement Act, it is a huge mistake, because not only would corruption be contained, but also public security could be improved and work for the poorest, most untrained layers, so we could not only kill two but more birds at once. We have not heard such proposals from either Fidesz-KDNP representatives or left-wing representatives, but we have seen extremely complicated procedures. Even a skilled lawyer would be honoured, for example, to find the mysteries of the part concerning the amendment of the law on criminal proceedings or to unravel these threads. There is very little chance that an unlawful average person not only takes the liberty of acting as a quasi-substituent, but, even by jumping on these administrative and legal obstacles, can achieve some kind of persuasive result. It seems, therefore, that you are well aware of the thinking of the Brussels decision-makers, and you think that if you put down sufficiently complicated rules, which may not be easy to translate from Hungarian to English, at least to return the legislator's intention, it will certainly not be easy, it will satisfy the needs of Brussels that will open up these money taps. I would add that our country's movement is not gloatable, and it is not a counterintelligence. The fact that the government may have problems is solved by the government, we do not fear for the government, but the Hungarian people do. There's a big difference between the two, so it's very wrong to gloat, to assume the worst, and to enjoy it, left-wing thinking, respect for the exception who doesn't have a shirt, don't wear it, and I'd like to say that it's very good, because if the government gets caught up in this or falls, then they might be able to get close to the power. After all, not only will the government players be the losers of such a situation, but Hungarian workers, Hungarian entrepreneurs, and if you don't give it to God, then Hungarian farmers will also have a problem with agricultural subsidies; and it would indeed bring Hungary to the brink of total bankruptcy, if not only the previously announced HUF 7500 billion of resources... now you can read about perhaps HUF 3000-3500 billion in the press, but the exact amount may be known only by members of the negotiating delegation. In any case, it is a significant, very significant amount, but if this were to extend to agricultural subsidies later on I know that this is not the case now, but it is not known what crisis we will be talking about in a year's time, it is certain that it would put the agricultural or other sectors that have already been bled to death. In any case, you can see from the government's efforts to pull in the last minute, at the end of the 25th hour, to pull in the handbrake, and try to make a deal with Brussels, and it will not be a problem for you if, let's say, German multinational companies bring out a lot of profits, in fact, some of the subsidies are in some form to migrate to the West, especially to Germany. Obviously, this may be one of the reasons why they do not want to get involved with extra taxes or special taxes on large digital multi-business companies from which ten or a hundred billion forints of resources could be realised, which could be spent either on the Protection Fund or on other aspects of the current crisis. They wouldn't dare open another front now to give me another term of war, since I've just mentioned the bombing of war food and war food and the line of war, they wouldn't dare start another separate line or front line in order to make more money. Now everything is subject to it, throwing away all their previous arguments, and whether they are pure or less pure, in order to find a way to settle bitterly with Brussels. [[22.40]] This kind of effort is partly understandable, and in part, unfortunately, they will suffer a lot of loss of face or face, and it will be very difficult to explain to some of their own voters, a good part of why the great struggle for freedom has now turned into a serious retreat. Of course, you may be performing this as a tactical retreat or tactical movement, but it will be very difficult to explain in this way. Along with the fact that, of course, they can trust that a large part of the electorate is not really interested, let us say, in these three legislative packages or their proposals concerning these different laws, and they are not particularly concerned with this in the pro-government media either. In any case, we would like the Hungarian people not to be guilty of this situation. We want Hungarian entrepreneurs to be able to keep their employees, we want unemployment not to increase, but to get all Hungarian people to work, and to get as much pay as possible in a very tight period of hyperinflationary. So we don't wish our country any harm at all. At the same time, you will also have to assume that you have a very significant responsibility for the fact that until now you have thought that you can run smoothly into the swamp of corruption and unharmlessly organise even an indecent amount of money or funds not exclusively but decisively from the construction industry. From the construction industry, which has now gone into a serious dive, and even the pit or bottom of the gap is not quite clear. In any case, I call this bill or package of proposals a questionable professional quality, which, in a very delicate way, is not only an ordinary person, but also a very, very, very governmentful and difficult to follow even for a lawyer. But it is likely that there is a direct intention behind this, so it is a fully conscious plan. However, I would be willing to bet more on the fact that, in the end, big battles, especially, may be serious, such showcase acting and so on, they will eventually be able to settle with Brussels in some form, if not otherwise, with long-term discounts, tax exemptions, direct or indirect subsidies, but they will be able to agree. Thank you very much. [[István Szabadi applauds.]]
u2022-09-26-278	Thank you very much, Congressman István Apáti. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to Serbian ethnic advocate Alexov Lyubomir, who describes the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian.
u2022-09-26-279	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Поштовани господине ПРЕДСЕДНИЧЕ! Поштовани прламенту! http://ec.europa.eu/index.int/index_en.int/index_en.htm Mr President, Dear Parliament, In this late hour, I welcome you on behalf of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities and myself. I am very brief about the outcome of today's meeting of our committee, and I would like to inform you, as a spokesperson, that from the five legislative proposals that we have now discussed on the agenda with the European Commission, the T/1202 on the amendment of individual laws for the sake of agreement. He dealt with the bill number 1. The bill, as has been said here, is the 2014 XXIX on certain legislative amendments relating to accession to the European Union, repealing legal provisions and laying down certain legal provisions. CXXII of 2010 on the National Tax and Customs Office By means of a legislative amendment, it sets out, inter alia, that the tasks of the finance officer will appear in support of the on-the-spot audit of the OLAF investigation and that special rules on audit measures will be included. These measures are general, although they are also necessary for clarification and clarity. In view of the fact that this bill may have become a nationality item, it is set out in Annex IX of 2021 on public-service trust foundations. Amendment of law, since the amendment of the rules on conflicts of interest of these foundations included a national indicator as established by incompatible or partially incompatible rules. We understand that the interpretation of national origin is broader and that national origin should include the nation itself and not just nationality. This amendment of the law itself does not substantially alter the rights and interests of nationalities in Hungary. However, let me go back to the 2015 Public Procurement Act. Although this amendment of the law does not directly affect nationalities, I would like to mention the legitimate doubts raised by our committee in relation to the law. According to the Public Procurement Act, the local and national self-governments are obliged to carry out public procurement procedures, and that is perfectly all right, so it should be. At the same time, we believe that it is not clear and that on this basis the area of campaign costs can give rise to doubts when the national minority self-government becomes an organisation that is indicated at the time of the elections. The guide is LXXXVII of 2013 Act on the transparency of the electoral campaign costs of Members of Parliament makes clear the claim and the extent of the campaign costs, as well as the way in which they are accounted, makes a special name for the national minority self-government, but, in our view, there is a difference between the national minority self-government which is a nominating organisation and the nominating parties. Parties are not subject to the Public Procurement Act, the public procurement procedure, if, for example, the public procurement threshold is reached by a cost item, they do not have to carry out it. At the same time, it cannot apply to national minority self-governments, as they are subject to the Public Procurement Act. The difference of opinion is generated here by distinguishing between one nominating organisation and the other in the field of campaign costs. I know that this is not the subject of this law, but I wanted to mention it in any case, or our committee has just said this to me as a matter of attention, because this solution must be made clear when financing the Public Procurement Act and, in particular, the parties and electoral processes. Dear Parliament, Nationality advocates have always sought to find a constructive solution to existing problems in their legislative work. Our proposals, in addition to the need to strengthen and preserve nationalities in Hungary, serve all social interests to the same extent. In view of this, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities is T/1202 amending certain laws in order to reach agreement with the European Commission. Recommends adoption of bill No 1. Thank you for listening.
u2022-09-26-280	Thank you very much for Alexov Lyubomir's speech on the Serbian minority. There will now be further speeches by Members. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Mátrai, Housekeeper Fidesz. [[22.50]]
u2022-09-26-281	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that the T/1202 on the amendment of certain laws has been discussed in general before this House in order to reach agreement with the European Commission. Legislative proposal No. 1. This resulted in a difficult conciliation process between the Hungarian government and the Commission for several months. This conciliation process was a success. The T/1202. Act No. 38 refers to Article 38 (6) of the Fundamental Law of Hungary, which states that the establishment, operation and termination of a public-service trust fund is governed by a fundamental law. In addition to this fundamental legal sentence, the bill is attached to Articles 8 and 9 of the bill. Article 2 (1) (a) The successful negotiations with the Commission on behalf of the Hungarian Government are due to the constructive, rapid, mutual respect-based coordination between Minister Judit Varga and Minister Tibor Navracsics. As is known, the obligation to cooperate with OLAF was published in the domestic legal order at the time of accession to the European Union. However, the legislation did not contain any procedural rules concerning the possible enforcement of cooperation or the applicable legal consequences. The amendment fills these regulatory gaps. Therefore, the primary objective of the negotiations is to make the existing internal rules that already protect public wealth and the use of public funds and prohibit their unlawful use even more transparent and euro-coordinated, since the protection of these essential legal instruments is in the best interests of all of us. The legislative amendments tabled by the Minister of Justice strengthen the legal situation of public property management governed by the Criminal Code. The T/1202. Proposal No 2185/96 on the protection of the financial interests of the Union against fraud and other irregularities Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). The amendment allows the European Anti-Fraud Office, OLAF, to carry out on-the-spot checks to protect the European Union's financial interests against fraud and other financial infringements in any Member State. In order to ensure that OLAF does so, the proposal amends CXXII of 2010 on the National Tax and Customs Office. The Hungarian tax authority will therefore be OLAF's cooperating partner. The day-to-day tasks of the tax administration's finance officers include direct action against corruption in the financial investigations initiated by OLAF's auditors. All tools available to the tax authority under the NAV Act, such as, without the need for completeness, access to the site during the investigation, collection of media, application of emergency measures where necessary, verification of the persons involved in the investigation and the amendment, are also provided to OLAF inspectors. I must point out that the legislative amendment in this respect is of a particular guarantee, after OLAF auditors decide on the methods and means to be used by finance officers, i.e. NAV staff, during the investigation. OLAF inspectors have the same legal toolbox as the NAV in their investigations in the course of the financial audit, with the significant additional right that they must act in accordance with the provisions of OLAF inspectors. OLAF, in its financial procedures concerning corruption, becomes an institutional procedural authority under our internal law. OLAF's financial procedure is also reinforced by the provision of the amendment submitted to extend the authority of the NAV by allowing the so-called administrative fine to be imposed on non-cooperating subjects in the course of the financial audit initiated by OLAF. The sum of this is one million HUF, which can be reset during the procedure. Of course, the amendment submitted also provides legal entities with the possibility of redress against financial investigations on a guarantee basis. The T/1202. The 2015 CXLIII bill is included in the bill. law, also the amendment of the Public Procurement Act. This part of the amendment is of a technical nature and includes an obligation to specify the entities which tender in the course of a public procurement procedure to the public procurement body. The alignment with EU law and the transparency of public procurement procedures are reinforced by the need to include trust funds with public tasks in public procurement. Obviously, the reason for this is to make the use of public funds and the fair conclusion of contracts more transparent in public procurement procedures. The T/1202. Amendment to the rules on conflicts of interest for foundations of general interest is also included in the bill No 1. It clarifies the provisions on conflicts of interest and extends the legal scope of stakeholders. The amendment of certain laws put forward to reach agreement with the European Commission aims to ensure the operation, use and protection of public funds, to make them more transparent and to bring them closer to EU legislation. Dear Parliament, The proposal provides for compliance with more precise and stricter criteria in the areas to be amended, which will help to improve the protection of public wealth. The protection of the listed areas of law is in our common national interest and I therefore call on my fellow Members to support it. Thank you very much.
u2022-09-26-282	Thank you very much. Then I give the floor to Congresswoman Elijah Boglarka.
u2022-09-26-283	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, allow me to thank the staff of the Ministry of Justice, who in the summer, during which the performance of the left was measured in interim election defeats, worked day and night on the agreement, in order to give the Hungarian people the rightful resources from which Hungarian businesses can receive help, teachers can get a wage increase, health workers can have a more secure vision; a vision that Hungarian people could not even hope for during the governance of the left. During Fidesz's administration, we've already proven that we're there for them. I was also a ministry rapporteur and manager, and I know what it means to cool the Commission's spirits after an entire year's drive in the summer panic. The deterrent of the task may not be proven, but in any case it shows that the shadow government of the left, led by Ferenc Gyurcsány, may not even know the Ministry of Justice by reputation. Thank you, Minister and Minister of State, for your persistent work. I feel like we're gonna need it. But in this debate, I cannot fail to say that the work of the European Parliament and the Commission is of great concern. I am concerned when I think that in the fight against illegal immigrants, not only have we been abandoned, but the leading Western European politicians, with their statements, completely ignoring the Schengen protection obligation, seemed to recruit illegal immigrants directly. I was worried when I saw that during the Covid epidemic, decisions were delayed and vaccines were selected on an ideological basis. [[23.00]] And as a mother with small children, I am also concerned when they refer to the violation of rights that our children have assumed instead of protecting them. All of this is being done in the knowledge that in recent years, perhaps on behalf of my generation, we are facing unprecedented challenges, and it would be in the common interest of all Europe to join forces and provide effective, quick answers. That is why we have always said that we are in favour of European unity as long as we can protect the interests of Hungarian people. This is what the legislative proposals before us are about, whether to create integrity, strengthen control mechanisms or better define the form of social dialogue. It is reasonable and acceptable; let us not forget that they were important to us before, they were a priority. Since 2010, with the national consultation, we have brought participatory democracy to a new level, where not only civil society organisations, but they, too, are not only media players, but they too, not only politicians, but also all Hungarian citizens, all Hungarian people, can express their views and express their views on the issues of strategic importance that are truly important for the future of our country in the long term. And then I do not wish to speak any further about the expression of opinion during the elections. So as with illegal immigration, family protection measures or the management of the coronal virus epidemic and the re-launching of the economy, we now turn to the people again about the misguided sanctions in Brussels and engage in social dialogue in the strictest sense of the word because the support for the welfare of the Hungarian people is our priority. I trust that achieving peace and building a social consensus is in the common interest of all of us. That is why I call on my fellow Members to support the legislative proposals before us. Thank you very much.
u2022-09-26-284	Thank you, Congresswoman Elias Boglarka. I now give the floor to Congressman István Apáti, Mi Hazank.
u2022-09-26-285	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Believe me, there are two main means of curbing and detecting corruption, one of which is the correct amendment and proper application of public procurement law and related legislation, and the other is the use of special investigative tools and secret service tools. For public procurement procedures, the key issue is always in preparation. If, in the course of preparation, we bomb the military power supply, which is indeed a power supply to be destroyed, in Hungarian, they will not remain in the system, especially not exclusively, but especially in the construction works, from which there is any mathematical possibility of redistributing, we have either reduced corruption to zero, or at least significantly reduced it. This depends on the preparatory phase of the procurement procedure, which is the responsibility of the contracting authority. It is also the responsibility of the contracting authority to impose financial, economic or technical requirements or criteria that open up the possibility of submitting the tender wide, its imaginary gates, so that there will be many tenderers, or, in addition to customised offers, tailor-made specifications and conditions, virtually one bidder may be covered, or, in addition to one tenderer, a maximum of two or three so-called aid offers, which are practically swimming alongside the large fish, with the aim of reducing the number of single-party or single-offer procurements. If there is no reserve in the system, then we will practically prevent corruption through public procurement channels. This is a very brief summary of our country's position on this. I could add a long time to the period before 2010 as a public procurement rapporteur with very little professional experience, but I do not want to bore you with these at this late hour. The other is the field of investigative tools, especially the use of special devices. For if the aforementioned methods fail to prevent the creation of reserves from which serious crimes against public trust can be committed and carried out widely, then in the vast majority of cases it cannot be concluded by conventional investigative means. And it is often not effective even if, where appropriate, there are softer penalties or judgments with almost complete acquittals promised to certain parties in the framework of some of their plea bargains, because the common interest, who promises or gives the wrongful advantage, does not want to be caught, and whoever receives it is also in the interest of not finding out anything about it. It is therefore very difficult, by nature, to break this unity of intent, this identity of interest, and it is often only possible to do so by incorporation, undercover investigations, secret information gatherings, wiretappings, and now I have to say that even using a wide-ranging system of nanotechnology can only be achieved in action. It is not necessarily necessary to work on petty cases, as this requires extraordinary human labour and considerable technical equipment, and it is extremely costly to explore such acts. In many cases, long cover and long detective work can only reveal such things. This line should therefore be strengthened. By the way, there is plenty of qualified professionals available in Hungary, either from the police, the investigating prosecutors or the secret services. Another question is how politically unbiased or indirectly these actors can be controlled, manipulated, manipulated and manipulated. This is an important issue, but it is now another aspect of the matter in this respect. At the same time, it is a fact that this must be kept in national jurisdiction according to the Hungarian Movement. We are most strongly opposed to joining any international or European anti-corruption prosecutor's office, as anti-corruption professionals are also abundantly available in Hungary, and from the above mentioned areas there would be plenty of people with appropriate theoretical skills and professional experience who would be able to detect these crimes. However, it does suggest an interesting political influence, which I saw years ago during a main prosecutor's hearing when I was working as a member of the Justice Committee. I remember well that Péter Polt literally made a statement of a number of sentences, according to which acts of corruption politically involved in secret gatherings of information often succeed in getting close to him, and then these secret gatherings of information, secret investigations, die for various reasons. I didn't want to believe my ears that this was stated by the former Prominense of Fidesz, the Attorney General, at a court committee meeting where the opposition representatives of the time were sitting. Of course, the Attorney General did not explain what he was thinking, but these sentences were rather revealing. In other words, it is possible to resolve this in national jurisdiction, honourable left-wing representatives, not even to give this to foreign international organisations that are at risk of national security, which are not sure at all that they will use only serious powers to prosecute, detect, prevent and mitigate corruption, which they will be able to perform in a much more effective way by properly prepared professionals in national competence without even presenting a national security risk. Thank you very much.
u2022-09-26-286	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Miklós Dawn, Momentum.
u2022-09-26-287	Thank you very much for the floor. I didn't want to ask you again, but I had to. I didn't come to Parliament with great expectations, obviously I knew what to expect, I knew what the political climate was like here, but I was hoping that today's legislative proposals might be so important that we might leave the normal framework. I have not come with great expectations, but what I have seen today, what has been done so far in today's debate, and I think that is not going to improve much, has gone beyond all my expectations. We are here in the debate on a bill that will not be more important in this session, or perhaps not in the next four years. The question that we are discussing here is many thousand billionaires, and specifically there is no Fidesz MEP in the Chamber, and one Mr. State Secretary remains here. [[23.10]] We are not many of the opposition, I add, but at least every faction is represented by one person. It's 11:00 at night, I think it's the least I can do. So neither in quantity nor I can understand the fact that the two-thirds Fidesz-KDNP parliamentary majority is unable to produce enough people to stand up and understand the meaning of your legislative proposals. How is it possible that even so, with only one third of us in this Parliament, there are more of us here, and more sensible comments have been made today than on your part? How is it possible that those of you who have spoken on your part, all that you have done, was roughly that you have read the bill? This is not a parliamentary debate. It was a readers' afternoon for you, or rather a reader's evening. Just to comment on the work of the Secretary of State and the Minister, in effect, you, as the authors, are also unwilling to debate the opposition, but you have come in here, you have said the prepared speech, and now, I think, the prepared closing speech will be voiced, and it is not the fact that the Secretary of State might reflect on the otherwise technical arguments, even many times alternative proposals, or even concrete amendments that we have written, which we have made, which we have just discussed. So, I think that a question of thousands of billions is more important, deserves more respect than that. I am very sorry that the Fidesz-KDNP faction could not give this to Hungary today. I think that you are the biggest disgrace to Hungary, and I very much hope that, regardless of this, we will receive EU money, certainly not for what you have provided here tonight. Thank you very much.
u2022-09-26-288	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Vajda, MSZP.
u2022-09-26-289	Thank you very much for the floor. I see the situation in the same way as my fellow Member, Miklós Hajnal. I'm gonna take a look around here. There's zero, which means there's zero Fidesz congressmen. There's a piece of State Secretary here who's pushing his gadget, and he's only here because he has a legal obligation to be here in such a debate. She was here at the beginning of the debate, and certainly, as they say, because of her urgent public service activity, she left the debate and handed it over to her State Secretary. I also don't see how it's possible to take part in a debate, that on one side there's a minister here and on the other side there's a secretary of state. How are you going to reflect on the conversation? What we are talking about here is how the government that leads our country wants to meet the rule of law. The law itself, which would ensure that you have tabled it, also shows the circumstances under which you have accepted the fact that there is no rule of law in Hungary. At the beginning of last week and at the end of last week, draft laws will be submitted, which will be negotiated on Monday after a few days, and then a few hours will be given to submit amendments to this. I'm gonna take a look at the clock, and we're gonna sit here at 11:10 p.m., and we're gonna negotiate. It could have been a matter of days. For example, I would have been completely free tomorrow, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday less, I admit that, but if it was important, I would have come here instead of my students. It's definitely not a parliament that works here, it's a formality. And the secretary of state, I have been paying attention, during the whole debate on his gadget, I think it is very important that he watched the Hungarian-Italian match, and it is certain that he is now explaining the legal justifications in which he will replicate with intelligent arguments made by my fellow opposition Members, in what way he will reflect on them. I'm looking forward to hearing from you at 11:12 a.m. tonight what meaningful answers you're going to give me. What's happening here, I think, is a shame on you. Thank you.
u2022-09-26-290	Thank you, Congressman. No further comments were received. The joint general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State, indicates that he is. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-09-26-291	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I've been working here in Parliament too long to sit up for such provocations. So what information I'm reading on the computer in front of me, you leave it to me, Congressman. Moreover, this debate has been watched by several of our colleagues online, and I have been kept informed of what comments or criticisms can be said. So you know as well as I do, honourable Member, that a ministry doesn't work with two people sitting here, and then this whole ministry. The Ministry's work is much more detailed than that. As you have heard these speeches, I believe, about the preparation of the entire bill, that several Members said that during the summer, the Ministry of Justice practically dealt largely with these matters and prepared only this bill. This package of laws was submitted at the end of a long negotiation process. You are right that we did not continue this discussion with you, but the explanation for this is that the European Commission has raised concerns, the European Commission has raised concerns about monitoring the use of EU funds. These concerns were constantly discussed by the Ministry of Justice's negotiating delegation. In these proposals, which have been submitted, we have reached consensus with the Commission, the Commission's experts. So I must say that there is a very serious professional achievement behind these proposals. So you're wrong about anyone who thinks there's some kind of wrinkle job that's been said. I'm not saying that every bill is perfect. It can be improved, but one thing is certain that, according to the Commission of the European Union, these proposals address their concerns when they are adopted and implemented. And here is the most important difference between the majority of speeches and the government's position that the government has actually taken a package of laws here, the adoption of a package of laws, the distribution of them to Parliament, and the adoption of them to avoid withholding or suspending resources from the European Union. This is an important aspect because, contrary to all claims, these EU funds have not been suspended, and if all goes according to our expectations, this will not happen. So perhaps they were not exactly aware of the Commission's decision. I would like to begin by analysing each criticism by saying thank you very much for the contributions of Members who support the adoption of this bill. I thank you, too, because they are not doing the government any favors, it is not about supporting the laws of the government, but they are helping their country by giving their country the EU's support that Hungary deserves. So I can really say that in this case, by the way, I was also thinking of opposition representatives, among whom there were some who said that, if I remember correctly, Jobbik's position was the same, perhaps our country's position, so there are those who can vote for this package of laws, and, as I said, they are not doing the government a favor. I can also accept that there are those who see points of criticism and criticism in this proposal. But perhaps there would have been, and there will be, an opportunity, for example, at the committee meeting to go into these criticisms in detail. What I've just heard here, I've listened to the entire session, the whole debate I've heard, I haven't found one of those criticisms that disagrees with the goals. No speaker has contested the objectives of this bill. What is the purpose of the bill? To strengthen the anti-corruption institutions, strengthen legal and institutional solutions to control corruption, the use of EU funds and resources in Hungary. So, in this direction, these legislative proposals certainly create a shift, a positive change. [[23.20]] The extent to which this will help in the fight against corruption is another issue. Here are instruments that relate to the procurement procedure; there are instruments that relate to criminal proceedings; there are instruments that change, for example, conflict of interest rules; these instruments are all legal solutions that can help to combat corruption. If we look at these controversial points separately, the points that you are debating, beyond the fact that the European Commission considered them to be appropriate tools, we should also know that there were such criticisms, although I did not understand why they were critical of the fact that the Hungarian transposition of certain EU legislation is taking place; some EU legal solutions are being transposed by this law. To give an example, there is this rule of conflict of interest for foundations of general interest, this is the EU Financial Regulation, which is precisely the regulation, if I remember correctly, 62. the transposition of §2 of the Act into the Hungarian legislation. So this EU rule contains conflict of interest rules, which will now appear in this form against the board members of foundations of public interest. So what I'm trying to say is that these solutions may be aliens, say, to the Hungarian lawyer's ear, but they are indeed solutions known in European Union law. The solution to criminal proceedings is a whole new one, and I could say it's an unprecedented solution. So the right to request the continuation of an investigation by individuals who are otherwise not victims of the case is a novelty. So far, the subject of the private initiation proceedings, its originator, has always been a victim of the crime, but, notwithstanding, if this meets the European Commission's needs to ensure that there is no doubt that the investigation of corruption offences will be closed, so if such an investigation is completed, then there should be one more forum, possibly two forums to turn to, but there should be one. But the goal was not to allow, let's just say, the good-willing ones who browse the website to create a defendant from anyone in a few hours. That wasn't the point. The aim was to allow persons who have substantial information on the case to be involved in criminal proceedings. So yes, it is useful to require legal representation, and it is useful to have a professional expectation that they will press charges, or that those who have real information and really know more than the investigating authority in the particular case will try to force the prosecution and continue the investigation. With regard to the involvement of the NAV as a determining body, I believe that, since the national authorities in all Member States carry out these similar control tasks, this might be, let us say, a national minimum, so that Hungarian authorities can act in Hungary as well. So in the fact that the NAV finance officers are involved, let's say, in the procedure, no one needs to see any professional or political bias. I would like to make it clear that I have just said that the Financial Regulation is Article 62. § 61, in fact. I'm sorry. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, There are many reasons for this bill to be debated, so much so that the government has undertaken to do with some of it, with regard to the law on criminal proceedings, in order to initiate a preliminary norm-control, so even the Constitutional Court will examine this solution to criminal proceedings if the Parliament adopts this proposal. By the way, such a procedure has not yet been initiated by the national and the Parliament itself to initiate the preliminary control of the Constitutional Court. If this law passes prior standard control, there is no reason to prevent it from taking effect. It can be seen that a law on criminal proceedings is quite sensitive, so in this case the rights of criminal proceedings, the rights of the defendants and the guarantees of criminal proceedings in general, the principles must apply, so it is more appropriate for the Constitutional Court to examine this. So, apart from the fact that we are debating this law here, even the control of the Constitutional Court will be implemented. So, honourable House, I would like to assure you that these are thought-out proposals, and the aim of these legislative proposals was not to adopt some form of legislation by the Parliament. They can really improve the fight against corruption, and we have not even talked about any solutions to integrity, and this authority can be said to be fully improved in any case by improving the fight against corruption or by improving integrity, as they say. However, your vote expresses the intention and I ask you to support the bill, that you do not want to make any more obstacles to the conclusion of the procedure with the European Commission, you do not want to push this any further, it does not make sense, we have enough debates with the European Commission anyway. We wanted to reach a compromise, the government wants to compromise, indeed, so that Hungary does not lose funds, but this agenda has been set by the European Commission in an agreement, and this agreement has also set precise deadlines for implementing this package of laws and the elements of this change of legislation. So I ask you to support this proposal. I would ask those who have opposed it so far to consider supporting the bill. It may be possible to adopt better laws on this issue, but at the moment these are the most useful proposals, because they have been approved by the European Commission, know these proposals and are considered appropriate by the European Commission in order to protect the European Union's financial interests. Thank you so much for listening.
u2022-09-26-292	Thank you very much for closing, Secretary of State Répássy. Dear Parliament, The amendments were possible until the end of the debate. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mr Péter Jakab, who will address his statement after the agenda with the title "The People's Party."
u2022-09-26-293	Thank you for the floor. Looks like there was planting in the Parliament this summer, Uncle Laci kicked me out of the front row in the back, but the truth here, in the back row, remains justice. And the truth is, fellow Members, that you have deceived the Hungarian people as much as the order of it. What did you promise before the election? What? They promised me that if you won, you'd still have to cut the rent. They promised that if you win, Hungarian families could calculate with low rent. Compared to this, the price of electricity has been doubled, the price of gas has been increased seven times, and the Hungarian Prime Minister will arrange the whole question with enough to heat less or make more money. Heating less or making more money. He's unconscious! My dear Prime Minister. Now, in any of your villas right now, let me ask you, is that little pensioner or the guy who's typically heated a room in an uninsulated apartment to survive the winter, what the hell is that supposed to do? You want him to heat even less? Turn off the convector, steal wood, or freeze? What are you gonna do? The teacher, nurse, firefighter who has already received his 200,000 salary from the Hungarian state is now leaving the course to earn more money to pay the higher costs? [[23.30]] Is that the solution? Will the Hungarian state be without a teacher, nurse or firefighter? No need to sugarcoat it, fellow Members, you won the election on April 3rd with a big, fat lie, and now you're covering it up with alas, so war and alas, war. Interestingly, when the Prime Minister's salary had to be doubled, war didn't matter. When friends have to buy Vodafone for HUF 715 billion in the middle of an economic crisis, war doesn't matter. It's just that when it comes to the people, war matters, right? That's when you point it at someone else. Brussels is to blame, Soros is to blame, the opposition is to blame, the war is to blame. Excuse me, fellow Members, this can be played in kindergarten, in the group of Micimackó, there can be shown, but there, in that chair, in the chair of the Prime Minister, there must not be shown, but action, crisis, or if it does not go, curfew! Over the past 12 years, the European Union has literally spent money on this country to prepare for difficult times. We managed to prepare with the collapse of the Hungarian economy in the first major crisis. The forint fell in more than the Ukrainian currency, and there's war, not here. There's only one fool who's broken this country in 12 years. Are you talking about the back of the West? They're talking about the West sinking? In Germany, a cubic meter of gas is 550, with us 750. In Germany, food costs 14 percent, we have 33 percent, which is 100 percent. The German government is helping the Germans to survive the hard times with €65 billion, and you're feeding the good people back and forth with chicken at official prices? Well, then, who's in decline? What's going down? Who goes first? Who's going in the back? What are you guys talking about, I beg you? Peter Szijjártó tells you to listen! That you are world champions in crisis management. World champions. Fellow Members, in lying, they are truly world champions in that, because we acknowledge that three million Hungarians have been successfully tricked. After all, three million Hungarians believed that Hungary was going forward. After all, three million Hungarians believed that you would defend the reduction of the rent, that they would support the katás contractors, reduce taxes, increase salaries and pensions. Three million Hungarians just believed that life would be easier if you stayed. Now ten million will pay the price, and that's exactly how it works for you. The more expensive life is, the more expensive the rent, the gas, the bread, the more taxes you get. Let's not be so self-righteous. That's what this is all about. You are not dealing with the crisis, you are causing it, because even the crisis is making a hell of a profit. Well, if there's something mean, then that's it. The People's Party Movement demands that the government, as a first step in crisis management, fulfill its own election promise, i.e. freeze the rent on April 3rd, because that's what you promised. Obviously, we are aware that there is little chance of that, since you do not keep your promises. Therefore, we are no longer demanding the zeroth step of crisis management, but we are fighting it. It's called a change of government. Colleagues! There is no way out of this crisis with you, because you are the crisis. There's no story here, or you're going down, or the country is going down. I say the government is lost, the people win! Anyone who agrees with this should join us, join the People's Party Movement and break down the Orbán system together. And let's forget once and for all who's on the right and who's on the left, no one cares. We are all Hungarians, we have a common country, we have to make it better together. I'll stay on the side of the people.
u2022-09-26-294	Thank you, Congressman Peter James. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP László Varju, representative of DK, asked for a speech:. What is happening in Újpesten? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-09-26-295	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. We have already established on several occasions that Hungary is in great trouble, because as a result of Fidesz's lie, people have been deceived, and everyone here is suffering from the austerity of the overhead. People are looking for a protector who are given the opportunity or are waiting to survive this thing. I trust that the steps taken by the municipality in Újpesten can contribute to giving families the opportunity and a little support that the government is unable to provide. Five pillars will be introduced, which can contribute to, or counter to, the increase in wages that the government has otherwise committed. At an extraordinary municipal meeting, the body of representatives decided that the municipality would assist the needy Újpestians in the fight against the runaway bills. The first of these five pillars is getting into the overhead. By amending the district social regulation, additional energy consumption aid will be included in the form of municipal aid. This is intended to provide additional support for housing-related energy consumption to families in need during the increased energy consumption period, i.e. between 1 November and 30 April. Depending on the income of households, this is set at between HUF 10 and HUF 16 000, which is twice the amount of housing support currently available. It is important that the use of additional aid does not exclude that the applicant is currently receiving housing aid. By the way, in 2021 the municipality spent more than HUF 11 million on this area. At present, it is estimated that the introduction of additional support will be a multiple of this. Let's see the second one. Families who start to reduce their own costs cannot be left alone in the renovation. The municipality will provide a non-refundable loan related to the financial institution loan used by the residential community, which can be obtained by tender for the renovation of the building. The aim of the amendment to the regulation on the promotion of renovation of condominiums is to ensure that Újpest city management can help those who start to do so to support the reduction of maintenance costs. According to the previous provision, the repayment aid was 60 per cent of the part of the rent to be paid to the residential community for a separate property within the residential building, and the amendment also applies to the already supported condominiums and new applications. The municipality currently supports 5395 sub-deposits in this form. This will be more than 100 million forints at the end. Focus on local government apartments. This is the third area in which many needy local government tenants, where the apartments are in a state where renovation is possible, will also seek to help with consulting that Újpest Property Management Ltd. review the municipal-owned housing stock from this point of view, because it needs to be helped. Help to find out about the world of bills and savings, the hopeless and indecipherable accounts sent by gas suppliers and electric service providers. Finally, the fifth is the wood that can be used on site, as the management is working carefully to enable the dried, removed trees to be used by those in need. To sum up, we are trying to resist, with five pillars, the overhead increase that the Orbán government has otherwise committed. I trust we can help a lot of families. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-09-26-296	Thank you, Congressman László Varju. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next autumn session is expected to take place on 3 October 2022. Thank you for your work. The meeting's closed. I wish you a restful good night.
