u2022-03-10-1-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The Parliament in Autumn The third day of its session was opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of the meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Ádám Steinmetz. I welcome all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Once again, I am fulfilling my sad duty to announce that two of our former fellow Members have passed away in the past. Tibor Schvarcz, former politician of the MSZP, obtained his mandate from the party's regional list in Komárom-Esztergom County in the parliamentary elections in 1994, and until 2010, he was a member of the Parliament for four cycles. During his term of office, he assisted the work of the Health Committee and the Social and Family Committee. In addition to his political career, he was a doctor, an economist, a candidate for medicine. He passed away 75 years of his life. Andrea Szolnoki obtained a mandate from the party's national list as a candidate for the SZDSZ in the parliamentary elections in 1994 and was a member of the Parliament until 1998. During his term of office, he assisted the Committee on Social and Health. He was a member of the Metropolitan Assembly from 1990 to 1998 and was Deputy Mayor of Budapest's Health and Social Policy from 1994 to 2006, for 12 years. He worked as an ear-nose-burner next to his public career. He passed away 76 years of his life. I would ask the Honourable Parliament to pay tribute to the memory of our fellow Members with a silent standing. [[It's happening.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Tímea Szabó, the leader of the Dialogue Group, has applied for a pre-meeting speech entitled "On Current Affairs." You have the floor, ma'am.
u2022-03-10-1-1	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, This is one of the last parliamentary sittings, and it is time to say goodbye to Viktor Orbán and to the devastating government of the last 12 years. It is literally devastating, because in our neighbourhood there is a war that Viktor Orbán's bosom friend Vladimir Putin launched against Ukraine. Putin's Russia started a war where cancer children were used for Russian propaganda in the Hospice Courtyard, where yesterday an obstetrics was bombed, where pregnant women had to be rescued. And in the meantime, what we hear from Viktor Orbán as a war takes place [[He's showing a quote with his hand.]] : You must have a strategic rest. But we know exactly what this strategic calm means. During the last week, Viktor Orbán has presented the following at the title of strategic calm: my fellow Member, Tamás Harangozó perfectly summarized this: NATO protects us, NATO does not protect us; we can protect ourselves, we cannot defend ourselves; NATO soldiers cannot come in, NATO soldiers can come in; we support sanctions, we do not support sanctions; we voted in favour of sanctions, we did not vote in favour of sanctions; we did not vote in favour of sanctions, yeah, but we voted in favour of sanctions, but Brussels and the left are to blame. This is the strategic calmness of Viktor Orbán. Viktor Orbán really has no idea what he has to say, what he has to do. And now you know that the great champion of the Eastern opening is in great trouble, you know that the Hungarian people have chosen Europe and freedom, not Putin, Russia and dictatorship. In the single opposition, however, we choose freedom earlier and now, we choose the European Union, we choose NATO, because these are the communities that can guarantee the safety of Hungary and the livelihood of Hungarian people in the long term. If Viktor Orbán surrenders to Putin now, then our country will be hugged by Russia so much that we will never get out of the clutches of the Russian bear. Because let's not think Putin wants to stop at Ukraine, that's just the first step. Putin wants to build a new Soviet Union, and Viktor Orbán assists with his strategic squint. In the opposition, however, we do not ask Putin, and we will not allow Viktor Orbán to take away our hard earned freedom from us again thirty years ago. And this is one of the major stakes of the April election: Russia's embrace or freedom and Europe. Orbán said that there is life outside the European Union. We know he's already thinking about it. In the opposition, however, we choose the West and not the East, EU membership, rather than Russian colonialism, freedom and not dictatorship. But in addition to our membership of the EU, honourable Members, there is another very high stake in the election on 3 April, and this is our livelihood. Viktor Orbán failed not only in his foreign policy, but also in the fight against inflation and protecting the forint. After 12 years of governance, the euro is 400 HUF, after 12 years of governance, inflation is at a 15-year peak, while even in Romania the decline in money and price increases have been contained. But let's see what that means in practice. According to the KSH, the wages of a beginner educator can be spent 11 200 forints a week on food. Well, I went shopping, fellow Members, and only bought what was necessary. bread, oil, onions [[Interview on the side of the ruling parties: Parizert.]] carrots, noodles, celery, flour [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Have you moved in with James? Defiance.]] Fries. That's all we got today, here's the bill. [[He's showing it to me.]] That's all you can afford for 11 200 HUF a week in Hungary today, that's all you'll give us from the wages of a beginner educator. Do you know what's coming out of this? Potato noodles, potato noodles, cheese noodles, vegetable soup and meat once a week; no vegetables and no raw fruit. Here's the bill. [[He'll show you the bill.]] That's what you get for teachers, nurses, social workers after 12 years of government: potato noodles for a week. Retirementes don't even get that much. [[8.10]] You've failed to make a living. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Just like they failed the entire government. Hungarian people deserve a government that guarantees their livelihood security. Only the opposition led by Péter Márki-Zay can bring this to Hungary [[István Szilárd Németh: We are here.]] Because only the new government will receive from the European Union the HUF 16 000 billion that Hungary is owed because of you. If you stay on the government, we won't get this. With the new government, however, we will re-establish security and prosperity through EU funding and by stopping your thefts. [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] The stakes of April 3rd are Viktor Orbán and poverty, or a new government and ascension. Here's your choice.
u2022-03-10-1-2	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, will respond to what has been said.
u2022-03-10-1-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We know that you are not in a good position to bring various objects into the Parliament; that is what happened to Mr Peter James. If you are so interested in the price level, the livelihood of Hungarians, then let me ask you why you did not support the food price stop. Why didn't you support the gas stop? Why didn't you support the credit moratorium? And why don't you support the official prices on the energy market, which you referred to as the left-wing prime minister-designate nonsense? [[Szabó Timea: It's a government decree, I'm just saying.]] As far as the issue of war is concerned, it is important that we define the most important objective. In the current situation, Hungary's safety is the most important objective. Hungary condemned Russian military intervention and we support EU and NATO efforts to establish peace. We also support sanctions supported by all, but we do not support the introduction of energy sanctions, which would mean that the price of the war is paid by the Hungarians. This would bring the European economy to its knees, and such sanctions would bring the European economy to its knees. And we support those who are in trouble with all our strength. [[Szabó Timea: We can see that!]] As far as the last 12 years are concerned, this government has faced a great deal of difficulties and many crises since 2010. [[Szabó Timea: And stealing!]] We were faced with economic ruins, and then there was a flood of migration, and two years ago, we caught an epidemic, and now we're in a war situation, and we're 200 kilometers from where we are, rockets are crashing from one difficult situation to another. And it has never once been so difficult for you to support the government in whatever it is that Hungary's interests are being taken into account. They helped the fight about as many times as the support of the party of Christmas Gregory. All right, let's get this straight. After 2010, nothing during the economic crisis management, but nothing was voted to help recovery. Without the left, we repaid IMF loans, started the tax reduction and launched the family support programme. Then came the migration crisis. You would have opened the borders of Hungary, attacked the border seal, voted in favour of the resettlement quota, and denied it here at home. [[Szabó Timea: How are you now?]] Two years ago, we found ourselves facing an unknown opponent: the plague has arrived. The country is exemplary. And what did you do? You personally participated in the fake news campaign with fake rescuer, a discrediting campaign against the country, where you have repeatedly said that Hungary is doing the worst in the world, and that if that wasn't enough, an anti-vaccination insecurity campaign was launched. [[Szabó Timea intervenes several times.]] We won't forget. Still, we could see that human life doesn't matter in leftist unscrupulousness. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] And what are they doing in an extraordinary situation? Now, when the basic interest is in the security of this country, they'd send weapons and soldiers to the battlefield. But the irresponsible race doesn't stop here, because they're also talking about shutting down the gas tap. [[Szabó Timea: You're lying! You're lying!]] [[Szabó Timea: You're lying! You're lying!]] You're trying to deny it. Your fellow congressman said that on TV, and now he's trying to deny it. I'm asking you not to. (Szabó Timea: Liar! You're lying! I'd like to ask you, did you tell the Frog County voters about the plan to turn the gas tap? [[Szabó Timea: You're lying!]] Their program is two steps away: first there would be no gas heating and then it would be much more expensive. Tell me, where should we get gas on short notice, and who should pay the extra costs? For the Hungarian families? Let's hope that's not what you're thinking. [[Noise in the benches of opposition parties.]] These few examples also show something: that if there is trouble, then the left cannot be expected. [[Gergely Harvesto: Don't count on it.]] And it doesn't really matter what the reason is. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] The fact that they deny everything coming from the government or worse is that they adapt their policies to foreign expectations. [[Gergely Harvester: Putin, like you, huh? Szabó Timea intervenes.]] ; not to use the word "order" I do not know, Congresswoman, who you, personally, and who you represent in these matters, but certainly not the interests of Hungary. [[Gergely Harvesto and Erzsébet Schmuck intervene. Szabó Timea: Not the Soviet Union!]] And what is simply a bloodboiler in peacetime from the left is life-threatening in a war situation. It is in Hungary's interest to maintain peace and security in this situation, which is the basis for continuing the period of country building at a time of danger. [[Szabó Timea: We did it! We did it!]] The MEPs behind me are coming from many places. [[Szabó Timea: There's no one behind you! Deterioration in the benches of MSZP.]] But one thing connects them is the love of their country. Despite any mistakes we may have, who are important to the security of this country, we can be there for you, in rocky situations and during sunny times. So, the choice in these circumstances couldn't be clearer. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] security or a dangerous crew, and all its unpredictable consequences. [[Interventions on the opposition side, including Mr President. How long have you been talking?!]] I'll see you on April 3rd. We'll definitely be there...
u2022-03-10-1-4	Thank you.
u2022-03-10-1-5	...a lot of people and a lot of them. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-03-10-1-6	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, also spoke before the agenda.
u2022-03-10-1-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, When Viktor Orbán travelled to Moscow a little more than eight years ago, at a joint press conference with Vladimir Putin, he announced practically completely unexpectedly that Hungary is building new blocks with some ten billion euros of Russian credit and Russian technology. Almost all the details of the fully secretly prepared treaty were secret, but Parliament passed the law on its acceptance just a month later. You may remember that this was the day that the LMP fraction tried to stop the vote by loud sirening. We didn't touch such a radical device for nothing. We believe that even then it was clear that the secret Orbán-Putin pact will indebte Hungary for many decades, deliver it to Russia and chain our country to an outdated and dangerous technology. Orbán has repeatedly said that this Paks expansion is the business of the century, and we believe it is the biggest mistake of the century. We've been trying to stop it from happening for a reason for the last eight years. We collected signatures, tried to break down the secret wall brick by brick, initiated a referendum, organized a protest. Every protest, every initiative that would have left the final decision to the Hungarian people instead of Vladimir Putin and Viktor Orbán. Their argument was that in 2014 people had already voted for Fidesz in the light of the fact of the contract. Now we stand here eight years later, and the situation is clearer than ever before. Fortunately, the construction of the nuclear power plant has been delayed for years, because according to leaking information, the Russians have submitted a poorly-quality design documentation that has caused tension even within the government. The Russian loan is now replaced by market credit because it is much more favourable to interest. During the war, Russia invaded Ukraine, including the largest operating power plant in Europe, and the next day, Attila Aszodi, former Fidesz State Secretary responsible for enlargement, said that this raises moral and ethical concerns, namely the continuation of the Paks expansion. We also feel that Vladimir Putin will not defend Hungary's independence and security, but must protect it from him. [[8.20]] Meanwhile, Fidesz itself does not know that it voted in the European Parliament for a sanction package that would make it impossible to continue the Paks project. Paks enlargement can't bleed from any more wounds. If it weren't for this sad situation in our neighborhood, we could rightly say that the whole thing is now more a parody of the business of the century, but unfortunately the question is much more serious. We also see from the last few days that if the next elections were won by Fidesz, they would push this project through at any cost. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán made it clear that the nuclear power plant was being built before he admitted that there were no unfortunate events happening next door, but that Russia had invaded Ukraine in particular. It is clear that Fidesz is pushing this project rather than admitting that the biggest, most expensive project in the last 12 years has actually been its biggest flaw. Now we have a second chance to take our own fate in April. Based on everything Fidesz has said, it is clear that this project can only be prevented if we replace the government. On April 3rd, we also decide that we want to be in debt to a country that will invade its neighbor for 30 years. Do we want to entrust Hungary's energy security to a country whose president made it clear a few weeks ago that our country should be removed from NATO? Do we want to build a nuclear power plant with a country that's building nuclear power plants next door? Our answer is definitely no. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-03-10-1-8	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. On behalf of the Government, Minister János Süli responds to what has been said.
u2022-03-10-1-9	Mr. President. Dear House, Congresswoman! We have talked about these issues many times, and new conditions always arise. When you say that the Prime Minister agreed with the Russians without any preparation, it is not true because on 30 March 2009 Parliament decided with 95.4 percent support... [[Gergely Harvesto: That's not true! He's decided he needs to be examined.]] No! He decided to start the authorisation process. But I'm sorry, we're not having a dialogue right now, but I'm giving you an answer to the congresswoman's question. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] So let's just say that at that point, the case was given four-party support to start the process of authorisation. The authorisation process is still ongoing. It is also a slide to indebt Hungary, since the Brussels Commission has examined the project on your proposal for just three years, has reviewed the project's return for 16 months and has clearly concluded that there is no debt, but that the investment will generate 7,35 percent profit. This is all the more surprising today, because at that time, the Commission in Brussels calculated the return at EUR 55 per megawattor, and today, although I do not want to talk about current prices here in Parliament, there are still bonds to this day, which are already EUR 550 per megawatt hour bonding for the next day. Thus, world market prices are clearly rising. Nor is it true that the Russian loan cannot be redeemed. So far, every example shows that, if we have the option, we can make early payments without any reimbursement of any expenses, and if the international situation is such that a cheaper credit on the world market can be obtained. This has been tested in practice, we have paid 37 bills. We don't have a single penny of debt to the Russian state because we've wiped everything out. This is a availability loan, 10 billion, this is not here: if the Russian party fulfils the contract, then the Russian bank pays the bill, the Russian main contractor. I can confirm that. About what the war situation has caused: we condemn war, but we have no obligation to judge, we cannot, we do not have all the information in our possession. History will make things right. We exercise solidarity, whether with Paks or with nuclear power plants, by collecting and other means; we also provide accommodation for Ukrainian citizens in Paks today, this is a very important thing. The power plant must be built because of the security of long-term energy supply, in order to reduce household costs and to maintain the competitiveness of industry, since today we give electricity to the public for HUF 37 in the framework of the universal service in Hungary, and the retail price in Germany is HUF 182 and the industrial price is much higher. The industrial plants come to us for a reason. If we want Hungary to have a job, tax income, which we can raise the wages of teachers, teachers, health workers, soldiers, policemen, we need to maintain this process and provide cheap electricity. And since the Taxonomic Regulation is now being amended in the Union, this means that nuclear energy is classified as green energy... [[Ms. Schmuck interrogated Ms. Erzsébet:]] Yeah, we'll talk about it later, but it's clear that it's supported. Several international specialised organisations of the Union and the United Nations have stated that climate protection objectives cannot be resolved without nuclear power. That's important, too. Germany has chosen a different path; history will once again justify the correctness of the roads. It is also a fact that on 24 January Hungary had the highest electricity consumption in the world, 7396 megawatts in one afternoon. At that time, solar power plants could not give a single gram of electricity to the grid. The total renewable, with a capacity of 3,700 megawatts, could provide 120 megawatts, while the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, with its four blocks, provided a nominal power of 2,000 megawatts of 2052 megawatts. Taking these into account, there is no other way than to continue the investment. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-03-10-1-10	Thank you very much, Minister János Süli. Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató, representative of DK, also applied for a speech before the agenda. It is for Congressman Gergely Arató to take the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-11	Dear House, Dear Parliament, The parliamentary election is coming, and the Hungarians will ask themselves: how did we get here? How did we get to the fact that the Hungarian forint became a small brother of the ruble, and sometimes they ask for 400 for a euro? How did we get to have lines at the gas stations? Don't tell me this is a false alarm and a panic, because yesterday I had the TEK armored cars standing in front of me, and they're not panicking. How did we get to the conclusion that 12 years of peacock dance and putini defense and defiance association ended in 2022 with the neckbreak of Hungarian foreign policy? 'Cause let's be clear, where we are right now, it's called a historic dead end. After 2010, a historic opportunity fell into your lap. The world has just come out of the economic crisis, and the EU has started pouring money on Hungary. [[It's a rare blur.]] With a mediocre government, they could have made such progress, which would have been historic, as our neighbors have done. However, you have done something quite different. First you wanted to be powerful, then you wanted to be rich. Then the richest and most powerful. They destroyed the democratic rule of law, declared a freedom fight against our country's allies, brunches from morning to night, and in the process of being refurbished with the Russia of Putini, which is threatening Europe. The Russian dictator's Trojan horse has been disintegrated in the EU, but they have put in their pocket all the support that came from the EU. It was announced that Brussels was the new Moscow, while all Hungarians were in debt to Russia for 30 years. Maybe they made themselves believe that they would be able to stand on two chairs at the same time, no matter what the distance between them. The rest is history: kisterpes, large-scale terpes, English asparagus, and then they put on a jacket so big that the Uzbek-Hungarian potato research center gave the other one. The EU no longer wants to co-operate with you, and Russia can no longer. They turned their backs on the West and bounced off the East after they found out Moscow was still in Moscow. [[István Szilárd Németh: Comrade Arató has such good writing veins!]] [[8.30]] Where you are, it is called an empty space, and where you led Hungary, it is an historic dead end. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Here we are, honourable Members, the biggest problem in Hungary today is you. You are the biggest obstacle to Hungarians being able to live a decent European life; you are the obstacle to the introduction of the euro, the predictable economic policy; you are the obstacle to becoming a European country. If you were serious about Hungary being the first, you wouldn't even be running for parliamentary elections, because that would be the best thing for the country. This is indicated by the fact that today there is a serious economic crisis in one country outside Russia, in Hungary, there is only one national currency, the collapse of which is comparable to the ruble, the Hungarian forint. And don't lie that this is because of the sanctions, because there are no sanctions against Hungary; this is your work, the work of the past 12 years, the result of the Putin foreign policy and economic policy. You have chained Hungary to Russia in Putin, a big rock, saying how strong and strong it is. Only now, when the rock has fallen into water and approaches the seabed, the chains and bonds that would link Hungary to it do not seem to be so beneficial. Be clear: this chain is Fidesz and the Orbán government, this chain is you, and if the country doesn't cut off this chain on April 3rd, everyone can take a deep breath because they're heading for the muddy seabed. Today, Hungary's only chance is to be out of the water, once and for all, if this power is removed, our lives depend on it. Shame on you for putting my country and the Hungarians in this position. Shame on you for these ignominious 12 years.
u2022-03-10-1-12	Thank you, Congressman Gergely Arató. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will answer. [[Gergely Harvesto: I can't even get a Dumpster! Defiance in the ranks of the opposition. Károly Kontra: That's what you're worth!]]
u2022-03-10-1-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President... [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Interventions and publicity in the opposition. The president's ringing the bell.]] We'll see if you'll like it in the end, honourable Member, or not, with a receipt for the day. [[Zoltán Balczó: That's the credit! Nacha Lawrence: Praise the reaper! Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Then I would like to begin, my fellow Members. [[A statement from the opposition.]] The left is in a good mood, and I don't think there's much reason for it. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Appreciate it!]] Allow me, Mr. Arató, to quote your faction leader, to quote your left-wing leader. You were talking about government performances; I think it's worth quoting your own party president for their own government, when you might have been there, and maybe you heard it, but only a few months later. You can't say anything significant about government action that we can be proud of. This is from Ferenc Gyurcsány. When we talk about government performance, honourable Member, we have been working for the last 12 years to ensure the safety of Hungarian people, as well as their financial security and families, as well as their businesses and their country. On the other hand, you yourself admitted that your own government was a failure because your Prime Minister could not give you any measure that you could be proud of at the end of your own government cycle. It's a self-acknowledgment that's quite talkative. And how you speak in the campaign, Ferenc Gyurcsány said this in the same speech in Autumn: "It was quite clear that what we were saying was not true. This is how you campaign, honourable Member, what you say in the campaign, your own leader says that it is quite clear that it is not true. You were about government performances; allow me to compare government performance with government performance. In 2008-2009 you took away the 13th month pension of pensioners with reference to the crisis; we have now returned the 13th month pension of pensioners in February. [[A statement from the opposition. Zoltán Balczó: Eleven, twelve, thirteen!]] You have raised the Hungarian people's rent 15 times; we first froze it and then reduced the Hungarian people's rent. You took a month's wages from teachers as secretary of state for education and dismissed 15,000 teachers; we raised the wages of teachers by 10 percent this year. You took a month's wages from the kindergarten teachers; we also raised the wage of the kindergarten teachers by 10 percent this year. You also took away one month's wages for daycare workers as civil servants; we increased the wages of daycare workers by 20 percent this year. You dismissed 6,000 health workers, took a month's wages from all Hungarian nurses; we increased the wages of nurses by 21 percent from 1 January this year. You also took a month's wages from all Hungarian doctors; we increased the wages of doctors by 28,5 percent on 1 January this year, and we increase the wages of doctors by two and a half times over this period of three to four years. You also took a month's wages from cultural workers; we increased the wages of cultural workers by 20 percent from this year. You took a month's wages from the police and the staff of the armed forces; we paid six months' arms money to the staff of the armed forces at the beginning of this year. You can make nice rounds, honourable Member, only because you are very afraid of numbers; you are very afraid of the words of Ferenc Gyurcsány when you admitted to bankrupting this country; and you are very afraid that on 3 April people will compare your performance and our performance, what happened at your time, what they themselves said was a failure, and what we did. You always took a third of the money away from the families, took away most of the family tax relief, but this year we repaid the tax paid to the families, and the families raising the child received their taxes back up to the average salary. You taxed the cafeteria; we gave discounts on the SZÉP card. You raised taxes, we reduced taxes on businesses, for example, from 19 to 9 percent, which you would raise back, which you said several times, and the taxes on families from 36 percent to 15 percent. We give young people sia-free in 25 years, and Ferenc Gyurcsány told them that it was possible to leave here, unfortunately many people heard that sentence. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] But now, fortunately, in recent years, more people have come home than they have gone abroad. You sold the National Book Publisher and raised the cost of textbooks by 70 percent, while we provide textbooks for all Hungarian students free of charge. You have not voted for a single basic VAT reduction measure here in Parliament in recent years. You introduced a tuition fee in higher education, we abolished it. [[Deficit in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]] not once, twice [[Gergely Harvester: Twice! Deficit in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]] , because you introduced the tuition fee during Gyula Horn's time and the tuition fee was introduced during the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government; but we abolished the tuition fee during the first Orbán government and then by referendum. Honourable Congressman, You have introduced hospital daily allowances and visits fees. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] With reference to the fact that there will be a wage (the president bell ringing) Healthcare workers; their wages have been reduced (the president bell rings) (The president bell rings) But we wiped that out, too. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-03-10-1-14	Thank you very much. Bertalan Tóth, head of the MSZP faction, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2022-03-10-1-15	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Viktor Orbán once said: "I have learned that when you have the chance to kill your rival, you do not think, but do. These words prove that Viktor Orbán doesn't know anything about peace, maybe he doesn't know it. Viktor Orbán's entire political activity is about war, war with Brussels, Soros, civilians and gays could be classified for a long time. The Prime Minister's essence is fighting and fighting. No one can hope for peace from Viktor Orbán, even though the Hungarian people want peace and security. May there be peace and security in the streets, peace and security in the economy, and peace in the souls. Everyone who has sworn to serve the Hungarian people rightly expects them to be protected from war and its consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, Viktor Orbán had every opportunity to protect Hungary from the consequences of the war. For three years, the Prime Minister has declared before the leaders of the Secret Service and Home Affairs that Russia will take over Ukraine, which he believes is a non-existent country. How did the Prime Minister get to know you so well? If it isn't Putin, who you met regularly five weeks ago. Then the question arises: if Viktor Orbán knew what Putin was up to, why didn't he take measures to mitigate the expected effects of the war? Why has the Hungarian Prime Minister done nothing to ensure that we do not have the highest inflation, that salaries and pensions do not lose their value, that the forint does not collapse, and that Hungary is prepared for the war crisis? [[8.40]] Unfortunately, we know the answer. We know that Viktor Orbán is not protecting the interests of the Hungarian people, but is still serving Vladimir Putin. Ladies and gentlemen, Peace and security. In order to ensure the safety of Hungarian people's livelihood, we need to call off thousands of billions of forints of EU funding as soon as possible, which is in jeopardy because the Fidesz government is corrupt and violates the conditions of the rule of law. Fidesz pushed the forint into a cliff. You have weakened the forint for years, only to make hundreds of billions on the exchange rate gains in the central bank. Stromones, relatives, foundations, Porsche's focus is on this, Matolcsy, while the euro has already cost 400 forints in the last few days. February inflation is brutal, rising to 8.3 percent, and food prices have increased by 11 percent, higher than a year ago. Moreover, these figures reflect the pre-Russian aggression situation, so Mihály Varga cannot lie about Brussels and the war. Instead of deliriousness, there is a need for meaningful steps, because in shops there is brutal expensiveness, the forint is weak, wages, pensions and family support are also being devalued. The freezing of a few articles for three months does not solve the problem, the one-off benefits that were given out of credit before the election quickly run out at such prices and then remain for millions of precious and deprivation. However, there would have been time and opportunity to catch up on small pensions, low salaries, reduce poverty, increase the value of family allowances on the subject, and strengthen social security. But following Orbán and Fidesz's putini pattern, he dismantled the rule of law and introduced a theft-based government. Ladies and gentlemen, Peace and security can be if Putin's henchmen disappear from power if Europe does not make friends, is not forgiving, and acts strongly against aggression and all kinds of violations. Today Hungary has a prime minister who betrayed his allies and helped Putin expand step by step. Viktor Orbán has a specific responsibility for the current situation. A new government can provide security for the Hungarian people, a new government whose members and leaders are respected and not treated as traitors by the Allies. On 3 April, the power of freedom will overthrow Fidesz and bring peace and security to Hungary for our common future, Hungary.
u2022-03-10-1-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the government, Bence Rétvári will respond.
u2022-03-10-1-17	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, You have spoken about the issue of war or peace, honourable Member, and we can say that the left can hit the wrong answers for Hungary at all historically important times, and that was no different now, on the issue of war or peace. Let me quote to you your fellow politicians, your own candidate for Prime Minister, who said that I would also support arms shipments if NATO and the EU decided to do so. On several shows, either in Partizan or in ATV, he also told Die Zeit that he would certainly deliver weapons and send soldiers to the neighboring Ukraine, where there is a war. Honourable Congressman, Is that peace or the sound of war? Is that the sound of danger or security? Is that the sound of thoughtfulness, responsibility, or the sound of misconception and terrible irresponsibleness? There have been many debates between the walls of this House over the past generations, even on the issue of war or peace, but it has always been the right position in this building over the last century if we have argued for peace. How come you're arguing about sending soldiers to war? How come you're arguing about sending weapons to war? They said such things, not only their candidate for Prime Minister, but also one of their fallen Prime Minister candidates, although we may be able to say that to everyone on 3 April. András Fekete-Győr, head of the Momentum, said that we need a deterrent policy, said he, the fallen president of Momentum, needed a deterrent policy against Russia, first of all, we need to offer weapons to the Ukrainian government, like our allies. Is that the voice of peace, honourable Member? Is this how you would preserve the security and peace of the Hungarian people by talking about sending weapons? But we also have our colleague Bence Tordai. He said that the government is also making joint European action difficult where possible in relation to arms shipments. Do you think it would be the task of the Hungarian Government to facilitate the sending of as many weapons to Ukraine as possible and thus bring Hungary into this armed conflict? But this isn't the end of the line, Congressman. Sándor Rónai, your MEP, has arrived home from Brussels and deserves to say that Hungary, the Hungarian government, is not helping a hundred percent, which is why he attacked the government; because other EU Member States, for example, are helping with the transport of weapons, and we are not helping a hundred percent of you said so by your MEP. Honourable Congressman, You may have been talking about peace here in Parliament, but one, another, third, fourth representative kept talking about dangerous sentences that would have led Hungary in the direction of getting involved in this conflict. If we have something to do here, in this Parliament, all 199 members of the Parliament, it is our job to ensure that Hungarian people can live in peace. There is no greater danger than the threat of war, nor has there ever been any dispute in this Parliament! In the last thirty years, Hungarian politicians have not made such irresponsible statements as these politicians, who have said sentences that could involve Hungarian people in this armed conflict. This war is happening next door, not on another continent, not thousands of miles from here! 150,000 Hungarians live in Transcarpathia, for whom we also bear responsibility, we have also written this in the Fundamental Law, which you want to abolish along with the Basic Law. Honourable Congressman, If there's a responsibility in something, it's this, and you're talking nonsense about it, and you're saying very dangerous sentences. That's the most dangerous sentence I've ever heard. What you should have done now was stand up, and if you had said the word "peace" in your mouth, you would have said that you disagreed with these fellow politicians. But he didn't say that. He spoke of peace, but he did not say that he did not agree with the words threatening war, honourable Member. And that would have been your job. The problem with the Hungarian left is that he still hates the right more than he loves his country. If you do not do so, there could at least be consensus on this issue in Hungary, because I believe that it is important to maintain peace in all countries. So we are asking the left to do whatever we ask, in fact, in vain, because in recent years we have asked for anything in vain, but we will never agree with the left when he says such statements of war danger. However, by 3 April I would like to quote to you the sentences of your leader Ferenc Gyurcsány, who also said in Autumn: and when I say that it is a failure, then I will talk about Hungary, of course it was Hungary that led by him, and I will talk about the left, and I will tell you honestly about myself. We hope that this forecast of Ferenc Gyurcsány will become a reality on 3 April, and we can finally drive Ferenc Gyurcsány out of Hungarian public life, because this is also the stake of the 3 April election to drive him away for good. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Ference Gyurcsány from the Hungarian political life. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-03-10-1-18	Thank you, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Dear Parliament, Mr. Péter Jakab, leader of the Jobbik faction, also applied for a speech before the agenda, with the title "East" or "West." You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2022-03-10-1-19	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues! I saw the Prime Minister partying at the Ákos concert on the eve of the war. Well, we'll send you a good number of Ákos on April 3rd:, something's over, something hurts. 12 years of theft ends on April 3rd. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Starfall!]] Twelve years of lying, twelve years of betrayal, because, yes, fellow Members, what you do is treason. In recent years, you have betrayed Hungary and have betrayed Europe when you have constantly kicked your own Western allies with double legs; you have weakened the European Union while you bow to Putin for some power. Somehow, you never wanted to stop Moscow; it's always been a war in Brussels, bloodshed. On 3 April he won a new meaning, fellow Members: Putin or Europe, war or peace, East or West, ruble or euro. We choose the West, we choose Europe, we choose peace, you choose Putin and war. That's it! This is what the Orbán government has given us in twelve years: war, poverty, corruption, 400 forints and gas shortages. It is also difficult to list, fellow Members, the many crimes you have committed against the nation in the last 12 years. I remember they started in 2010 by stealing HUF 3000 billion of private pension savings, then eliminating the Swiss indexation of pensions, with which every year they stole HUF 400 000 from each pensioner. Then they raised the VAT to 27 percent, let the forints devalue, and now people's salaries are getting less and less expensive from hour to hour, fellow Members. But you're gonna take half of that little salary, saying you need a tax. They only subtract 18,5 percent a month for social security, but if you have to heal, you can go to the private hospital because the state's been beaten up. [[8.50]] Pay twice for the Hungarian, right? Well, you can't! Every year 30,000 of our countrymen die just because they don't have access to proper health care in time. The deaths of 30,000 of our countrymen a year are on your hands because even health care has been stolen. All that matters to you is money, nothing else. If the money doesn't come from Brussels, the Russian loan is good, and the Chinese loan is good. In the meantime, the sovereign debt is breaking records? Well, what does it matter to you and our kids will pay you back, right? The point is, in the meantime, we're gonna protect them from sexual conversion surgeries. It's pretty amazing. After 12 years, the Prime Minister of Hungary is in the middle of a war, in the middle of an economic crisis, digging through the pants of children, and people voted on what should be between their legs? ! That's about how a real aberrant gang of thieves will remember you in posterity. Fellow Members, was it worth it? Because the country doesn't, it doesn't. This country could be Switzerland for Central and Eastern Europe. One thing I need is a decent government, nothing more. Do you know how much EU money has come here in recent years? Of course they do. You stole it. 2.2 billion forints a day. This money could have been used to settle wages, pensions, health care, education, to build rentals. We got stadiums instead. In the Brussels Restoration Fund, Hungary is currently waiting for HUF 6,000 billion. 6,000 billion forints waiting for the change of government. 6,000 billion HUF expects this country to have a national unity government that restores the independence of the judiciary after 3 April. There is 6,000 billion forints set aside to raise wages, pensions, family allowances, to reduce VAT, to build rent apartments, to create a Hungary of well-being. There is only one obstacle to this right now: you, your infinite hunger for money, your infinite hunger for power, your infinite greed. At present, we are talking about the fact that the Hungarian government is the most corrupt government in the Union, and the Hungarian nation is the poorest nation in the Union. There's a connection between the two. You have the Hungarians' money. He's there with the Prime Minister's family, which in 12 years has doubled his fortune. He's there with the prime minister's gasman buddy, who's put himself on a billion dollars in 12 years. He's with you, the Fidesz mafia, who robbed this country in 12 years. [[Dr. Gyula Budai: Are you talking about them? György Szilágyi: What is it, Gyuszi?]] Orbán recently said that the last ten years of Hungary's last hundred years were the most successful. Then you had to make the chicken's butt-back official, because with prices like that and wages like that, you can't even buy it anymore. The Poles have chosen a very different path. The Polish government has decided to let go of basic food tax, one at a time, to make life cheaper. From now on, life in Poland is really cheaper. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Why didn't you vote for him?]] Okay, let's face it, we don't have the kindergarten kids having sex conversion surgery for whose government has done. Thank you very much, fellow Members, for the last 12 years, we are not asking for any more of it. That's enough stealing! That's enough lying! That's enough bullshit. That's enough of Putin's service. Enough of the European Union's destruction! On 3 April Hungary will return to Europe. I want the thieves to pay me. Prosperity and peace for all Hungarians!
u2022-03-10-1-20	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the government, Csaba Dömötör will respond. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2022-03-10-1-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, I'm a little surprised by your statement about the East Retirement, because I know Jobbik's position on this. There's a quote coming up not so long ago. Please, listen. The Jobbik seek Russia's alliance against devastating Western liberalism, and we believe that Russia can bring Europe's spiritual renewal. These are the words of Márton Gyöngyösi, who is now the foreign politician and MEP of Jobbik. He didn't stop here because after the last Russian military intervention, he also said it wasn't surprising that Moscow intervened to protect the Russians. He also said that Russia could be taken as an example of its ability to assert interest, and that it would normalise harmful Euroatlantic policy if Jobbik came to the government. One more thing, Mr Group Leader, is that there is a party whose representative is suspected to have been spying on Russia. This party is the Jobbik. And it's not suspicious, because the congressman was sentenced to two years in prison. And do you know where he is now, Mr. President? Moscow. So much for representing other people's interests. Perhaps even so that there is only one party in the Hungarian Parliament that campaigned against EU membership, and this is Jobbik, your party. Well, that's that, then. With your speeches, you say that you are interested in the livelihood of Hungarians. Then let me ask you one question: what are you doing on the left? They're selling the same holed-up merchandise that almost took the country to ice once. Let us start by saying that they do not support the minimum wage, because, as Péter Márki-Zay puts it, there are many drawbacks and downsides. Similarly, they do not support the 13th month pension. What does your candidate for Prime Minister say? It means it's bullshit. Now I'd like to ask you how you learned that word, but we know it very well. Let's look at taxation. That's what you mentioned. According to Péter Márki-Zay, progressive taxation is sympathetic. What does that mean in practice? Up to a 36 percent tax rate. This means that if the ceiling had stayed there as it was before 2010, then even the minimum wage would now be taxed by more than 30 percent. It's not a good track. But what does your candidate think of the youth tax exemption? It means it's hard to take it back. So you're already thinking about this clean 2009. We also know that Péter Márki-Zay would limit family support, just like after 2002. And then they said they wouldn't touch it. They touched it, they demolished it. What did they give you instead? Foreign currency loans. And to discuss the current decisions, I will also not let your candidate support the food stop, the gas stop and the credit moratorium. Professionally, he explains it: he says it's stupid. That's why they're clear words and insensitive. And what's going on with the reduction of the rent: they don't support it for a change. You say it's stupid, Captain. You have a solution: everyone use less electricity and less heat. What do you think of this proposal at the Avas estate, Mr. Group Leader? Finally, health: once again, the left would make healthcare pay. I quote your candidate again: only a drastic privateization can help. They'd put hospitals together and push the whole thing by saying that you don't need a doctor to give birth. I'd at least ask the mothers about it. All in all, they didn't forget anything, they didn't learn anything, the same people would come and do the same thing. Well, thank you very much, we don't want any. Congressman! I don't know if it's a political weakness or a political calculation, but you tied Jobbik's fate to the constrictive left and secured the bond with a big lock, and then slowly swallowed the key. Well, now bear all the consequences. As far as we know, you took Gergely Pongráz's 56 hero picture off his office wall. I think you did the right thing, because if you were alive, you wouldn't be left in front of your eyes. They created a national party, and then a few years later, they changed, and you have so much room for manoeuvre that you can ask for yourself on the list of Gyurcsány, somewhere between Ferenc and Klara. That's all that's left. It's not a nice story. I think the only thing that's gonna get worse is their election results. Wear all the consequences of this in person. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-03-10-1-22	Thank you, Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör. István Simicskó, leader of the Christian Democratic People's Party, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2022-03-10-1-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to begin by thanking the people, the Hungarians, the soldiers, the police, the emergency officers, our mayors, volunteers, the charities, the President of the Charity Council, Mr.Miklós Soltész, the government and everyone who has helped the people, Ukrainians, Hungarians, Ruthenians and everyone who has come to Hungary in the past few weeks and days. Students from 26 countries came, who studied in Kiev, and the Hungarian government supplied them, and there was no one left, and everyone in Hungary received shelter and security. So as long as many left-wing politicians not only instigate, but also do such a bold thing that they judge in such a Russian-Ukrainian war conflict, I do not know where they will take this courage to declare judgment, but we have obviously seen a lot of márki-Zay's speech, even on the part of Péter Márki-Zay, while the Hungarian people help those who are in trouble with a great heart based on reason. [[9.00]] Of course, Hungary has always said that it is on the side of peace, and we have only one option to help it in this way, and it is involved in the greatest humanitarian aid in Hungary's history. That is why I thank everyone who is involved in this. Ladies and gentlemen, The testimony of the Old Testament clearly shows what the danger of a brother's war and cruelty can bring. It is a sad fact that humanity did not learn from this in 2022; indeed, here in our neighbourhood, there is a shocking war that is now taking place between two related peoples, brothers and sisters; after the Serbian-Croatian war, we can now see the Russian-Ukrainian war and see the devastation of it. Ladies and gentlemen, Although, of course, many of us have said that the 21st century The century has been a century of challenges, threats, threats, risks, but few have thought that by 2022 we will be here, that war could start again in our neighbourhood. We have also often talked about being in a period of hybrid warfare and allow me, as former Minister of Defence, to say that we are in a period of so-called fourth generation warfare. Based on the formulation of klausewitz, the war is nothing more than the continuation of politics by other means, which is a war definition today, with the use of modern technology and technology, we could also rewrite it, because earlier, let's say, in the last ten years, we have seen various means, methods, degrees, intensity, that war is the continuation of politics with other so-called digital tools and smart devices. That's what we've been saying all along. This is still the case today, because information is power, and disinformation can influence people and create danger in a particular region. We also see that there are now organizations exporting revolutions, which are in itself quite peculiar and shocking, and, of course, a number of methods of pressure and will-mortgage have been applied over the past ten to twenty years. However, the so-called hard instruments that have reported military conflict have so far rarely occurred, although I would add that after World War II, after the creation of the United Nations, which states that there is only one legal state, the state of peace has passed in the world since 1945, with no armed conflict of any kind, some kind of war. This, too, is shocking. It would be good for mankind to really find a way of peace. Hungary is leading this, Hungary is helping the people in trouble, and this is the wisest thing we can do. We hope that peace talks will lead to results. It is certainly a positive thing that the parties are negotiating; as I understand it, today is the day of the meeting of the two foreign ministers, the Russians Lavrov and Mr Kuleba, perhaps in Turkey. Mr. Secretary of State will tell us what we can hope for. I trust that a lot. It is very important that battles be decided at negotiating tables, not on the battlefield. As a Christian Democrat politician, perhaps I should add Mother Teresa's idea that peace basically begins with a smile. Let's hope we get here sooner or later, the armed struggles will stop, and the parties will come to an agreement. This is what we are interested in, and we want peace in our region. This is also in the interest of Transcarpathian Hungarians. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-03-10-1-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the government, Minister for Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó will answer.
u2022-03-10-1-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Ladies and gentlemen, There's a war in the neighborhood. At times like this, it is very important that we speak clearly, straightly and clearly. We condemn this military aggression, we stand for Ukraine, we stand for the Ukrainians, we stand for Ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty. It's terrible and shocking that the XXI. At the end of the first quarter of the century, urban ruins and brutal acts of war take place in Europe. It's terrible to see families' lives and achievements disappear, and you have to stuff the fruits of a life's work into a suitcase or backpack and start from an uncertain situation, from a life's danger to the hope of refuge. I would like to inform you that, until this morning, 201 706 people from Ukraine have entered Hungary since the outbreak of the war. Perhaps the traffic from Romania to Hungary also has a relevance in this respect. There 156,056 people crossed the border during that period. I would like to say that Hungary, the institutions of the Hungarian State, are prepared to provide asylum and care for all refugees arriving in Hungary. For a longer period of time, we provide work for them, and for their children school, kindergarten, or nursery. Up to now, we have helped 115,000 people. The offer of the initiative for the Transcarpathia of the Bridge was made by telephone and invoice with a donation of HUF 638 million. Please allow me to express the thanks and appreciation of the Hungarian Government to all people who, as employees of state institutions, as policemen, soldiers, employees of disaster management or charity organisations, as volunteers, as employees of church organizations, have helped and helped to ensure that these refugees who arrive in Hungary receive the best possible care. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] We are currently conducting the most important humanitarian action in Hungary's history. On February 27, I went to Ukraine, crossed the border, met Governor Viktor Mikita of Transcarpathia... [[Zsolt V. Németh comes into the Chamber, passes the Minister of Foreign Affairs and takes his seat. Meanwhile, Tibor Bana, moving behind him, is constantly recording videos with a phone.]] Gentlemen, there's a war next door. Compared to this, it might be good to behave in the gravity of the situation! [[Noise from the pro-government benches. Miklós Soltesz to Tibor Bana: Shame on you, Congressman. Zsolt V. Németh stands up and takes his place in the bench. Tibor Bana, turning to Péter Cseresnyés, continues to make video recordings, speaking among themselves, and leaving the room in a little while.]] We continue with the most important humanitarian aid action in Hungary's history, delivering 800 tons of food and 200 tons of hygiene products to Ukraine for HUF 583 million at the request of the Governor of Transcarpathia, in order to help the situation of people living in Transcarpathia and in difficult situations in Ukraine. I would also like to inform you that we have offered to provide full health care for children in Ukraine requiring hospital treatment. We are currently negotiating the technical implementation of the reception and treatment of 128 sick Ukrainian children in Hungary. I would also like to inform you that there is ongoing coordination between the Governor of Transcarpathia and the leaders of KMKZ. Governor Viktor Mikita has brought a culture of reconciliation to Transcarpathia, which, in this extremely difficult situation, I think is a truly heartwarming good news. Finally, I respectfully inform you that traffic is below average at the border crossing points on the border between Ukraine and Hungary as at 5:30 this morning, only at two border crossing points, at Beregsurány and Tiszabecs there is a waiting time. Of course, we are trying to be as humane as possible here, and refugees can come to Hungary as easily and as easily as possible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-03-10-1-26	Thank you very much, Minister of Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Németh, representative of Fidesz, also applied for a speech before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman. [[9.10]]
u2022-03-10-1-27	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Minister, Today, on 24 February, this war broke out two weeks ago, which is the subject of every speech before the agenda. Today, the Hungarian Parliament discusses and accepts a clear but calm political statement. It is regrettable that the left is unable to reach agreement in this difficult situation, since they left the decision yesterday. The war has created a new situation for both the world and Hungarian foreign policy. As you have already stressed, Minister, we stand by Ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty; we are putting aside our debates in recent years; we are in favour of the start of the EU accession process. At the same time, we condemn Russian military aggression and support any sanctions imposed by the international community on Russia. Hungary's position can be summarised in four words. First: peace, second: security, third: unity, fourth: solidarity. Peace, i.e. halting combat, ceasefire, humanitarian and peace negotiations: this is an increasing responsibility of the international community from day to day. Secondly, as far as security is concerned, the security of the Hungarian people at the border from here and beyond. We must prevent the war from spreading, Hungary must stay out of the war, so Hungary does not send soldiers, it does not deliver weapons to Ukraine. And as far as the energy is concerned, we need to preserve the safety of gas and oil transport. Hungary therefore does not support the extension of sanctions in this respect, no matter what the opposition says. You can't have us Hungarians pay the price of the war. As far as unity is concerned, NATO, the European Union, the Council of Europe, the V4 takes a surprising and very welcome single position. We consider it important to take decisive and responsible action by these international organisations and we urge that this unity be maintained in the Western world. As regards the importance of solidarity, there is, in any case, a very serious room for manoeuvre in this area. And as we have heard from Minister of Foreign Affairs, Hungary is doing everything in its power, and the greatest recognition is given to individuals, organizations, churches who are actively taking part in the assistance that is two-way. Firstly, we must help refugees, in respect of which I would like to stress that Hungary is the second most important refugee host country after Poland. This number is increasing day by day, and it is expected that this will not slow down in the coming months. The other direction is to take action to alleviate the humanitarian disaster in Ukraine. As far as refugees are concerned, I would like to stress that Hungary accepts everyone, regardless of nationality or nationality. As far as the humanitarian disaster is concerned, we are looking at Ukraine as a whole; we pay particular attention to Transcarpathia, the region closest to us, and to the Hungarians living there. This is one of our main tasks in terms of governance these days. As regards the attitude and accusations of the opposition, I would like to make it clear that at some point it is necessary to decide whether they are on the side of the war or of the Hungarian people. Whoever wants to send a gun or send a soldier or shut off the gas taps is clearly on the side of the war. And as to the accusations of Hungary's relationship with Vladimir Putin, it was Ferenc Gyurcsány who gave Vladimir Putin a puppy. He was the one who hosted her in the tiny villa; and she was the one who had the Russian secret service screen the Hungarian counterintelligence, the National Security Agency. Ladies and gentlemen. The adoption of the political declaration is an excellent opportunity to establish a national unity in this extremely difficult situation. At some point, political consensus is needed now. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-03-10-1-28	Thank you very much, Congressman Zsolt Németh. On behalf of the Government, Minister for Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó will respond to what has been said.
u2022-03-10-1-29	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Deputy Chief of Staff, Ladies and gentlemen, War is the worst scenario. War is not an answer, so it is important that we speak clearly: Hungary has clearly condemned military aggression against Ukraine. We stand for Ukraine, we stand for the Ukrainian people, and we also stand for our neighbour's territorial integrity and sovereignty. It must be made clear what is the most important task and duty of the Government of Hungary. There are two important duties. The first is to protect the safety of Hungary and the Hungarian people. To this end, it was decided that the significant forces of the Hungarian Defence Forces will be established in the eastern border area of Hungary in order to prevent the infiltration of military or paramilitary groups into the country, preventing anyone from endangering the Hungarian people or the territory of Hungary. The second most important task is to prevent Hungary's drift and its involvement in this war conflict. There are three ways to get involved in such a war, and these three options need to be prevented, impossible. First of all, you can drift into a war by sending soldiers from a country. There was a proposal for this on the part of the opposition Prime Minister's candidate, but the government's position is clear: we are not sending soldiers into this war. Then you can fall into a war like this if a country sends weapons to one of the warlords. We Hungarians have made it clear from the beginning, and we insist on this position: we do not send weapons into this war. And third, you can get involved in such a war by allowing a country to carry deadly weapons through its own territory. In spite of the opposition's presidential candidate for treason, the government has decided not to authorise the transfer of deadly weapons to the territory of Ukraine directly in Hungary. Such a deadly shipment of weapons is a military target to be destroyed by the enemy. We cannot expose Hungarians in Hungary or in Transcarpathia to the danger of placing a military target in the immediate vicinity of their location. Therefore, let us be clear that the Government of Hungary has made a clear decision: we will not send any soldiers or weapons into this war, nor will we allow the passage of deadly weapons to Ukraine in Hungary. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] We consider it important to maintain European unity on this issue, and so far Hungary has been involved in all negotiations; we have been involved and involved in all single sanction decisions; we have supported these sanctions decisions, and I find it amazing that some Hungarian opposition politicians have been circulating lies that have claimed the opposite, thus endangering Hungarians living in Transcarpathia. Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, However, we must make it clear that we have red lines, such as the security of Hungary's energy supply. We cannot allow anyone to risk the security of Hungary's energy supply. The transport of natural gas is not ideological, not political, not philosophical, but physical. Either there are gas sources or there are no gas sources; there are either wires or there are no wires. For seven years, we have discussed that the American ExxonMobil is to produce gas from the gas field in the Black Sea in Romania, and the decision has been postponed for seven years. There is no additional gas source in this area. Hungary, Central Europe and Europe as a whole are also dependent on natural gas coming from Russia. This situation can be changed in 4-5-6 years, which is why the energy system is sanctioned, the energy embargo [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Hungary will not support it, given the need to prevent the price of war from being paid to the Hungarian people. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[9.20]]
u2022-03-10-1-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Ádám Steinmetz to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2022-03-10-1-31	Dear Parliament, On this day's agenda, Mr Ander Balázs, Jobbik; Gergely Kálló, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Carpát, Jobbik; Róbert Dudás, Jobbik; Bence Tordai, Dialogue; Mária Kállai, Fidesz; Dóra Dúró, independent; Andrea Varga-Damm, independent; János Bencsik, independent; Gergely Arató, DK; Anett Bősz, DK; László Varju, DK; László Vardu, László, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; Tibor Nunkovics, Jobbik; László Lóránt Keres, LMP; Péter Ungár, LMP; Bence Tuzson, Fidesz; Tamász Mellar, Dialogue; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik; László Varga, MSZP and Kőrösi Potocskati, Jobbik.
u2022-03-10-1-32	Thank you, Mr. Notary. [[It's constant noise. It's ringing.]] Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that there has been a motion to suspend the immunity of Csaba Tóth, MSZP, Member of Parliament. The Speaker of Parliament has issued this to the immunity committee for examination. I would like to inform you that the immunity committee has submitted a proposal for a resolution, so that the suspension of immunity will be decided on this day in the course of the post-interpellation decisions. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits shall be decided on a proposal from the House Committee. With all due respect, please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the ballot counting machine. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal to amend the agenda. The Fidesz Group has proposed that the agenda for the ordinary meeting of the Parliament on 10 March 2022 be added to the P/18373 on the war in Russia. By negotiating and adopting political statements No.3 as a result of the combined debate of the political declaration on the material conditions for the religious and public activities of the churches in the 1997 CXXIV. T/18205 on the amendment of law and other laws The Commission's reports and the summary amendment proposal should take place as a item on the agenda, and the decision should be taken at the same meeting. Anyone who agrees with that, vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I note that the vast majority of Parliament's visible majority accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the House Committee's agenda. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. I would like to inform you that P/18373 on the Russian-Ukrainian war. Members of the Commission may submit an amendment to the Political Declaration No 1 within 3 hours of the adoption of the agenda, so that today they have the opportunity to do so at 12:24 a.m. Dear Parliament, Now I'm ordering a 9:00 to 30 minutes break. (Recess: 9.25-9.40) President: László Fat Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dr. Ádám Steinmetz)
u2022-03-10-1-33	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, Please stand and welcome President János Áder. [[Dr. János Áder enters the Presidential box. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. The people in the room are sitting down.]] I salute the candidate for President Katalin Novák and his guests , Péter Zsolt Róna candidate for President of the Republic and his guests (Applause.) , Prime Minister Viktor Orbán (Applause.) , Former President Paul Schmitt (Applause) , Former Prime Minister Péter Boross (Applause.) , Former Prime Minister Péter Medgyessy (Applause.) , all former and current public officials, leaders of Hungarian and cross-border historical churches, representatives of foreign Hungarian communities, members of the diplomatic body, Hungarian representatives of the European Parliament, Members of Parliament, representatives of national minorities, all our dear guests, representatives of the Hungarian and foreign press and everyone who monitors our work. Dear House, The election of the President of Hungary by secret ballot follows. At the meeting of the House Committee on 3 March, the factions were informed that Fidesz and KDNP 132 parliamentary representatives nominated Ms Katalin Novák as President of the Republic; the Group of Jobbik, MSZP, DK, LMP and Dialogue and an independent representative nominated Mr Péter Zsolt Róna as President of the Republic by submitting 50 supporting signatures. I would like to inform you that no invalid recommendation has been received. Offering sheets containing signatures S/18302. and S/18310. can be seen on the website. Dear Parliament, Based on the decision of the House Committee, candidates may speak for a period of 15-15 minutes. First, Ms Katalin Novák, candidate for President of the Republic, will speak in a 15-minute time frame. I call on Mrs. Katalin Novák to come to the lecturer's stand and give her speech. [[Katalin Novak is escorted from the lodge to the pulpit by a staff member of the Office Security Service. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-03-10-1-34	Dear Lords of the President, Colleagues! Dear Guests! Today, the country elects President of the Republic. For most Hungarians today is an average Thursday: he wakes up, starts children in kindergarten, starts school, earns their daily bread, learns, worries about the patients, the safety of his family. At the most, he will hear from the evening news that he will be the new President of Hungary. Today, through you democratically elected Members of Parliament with the right to decide, the country will elect a new Head of State. They have the right to know who the person to vote for has what to say to the Hungarians today. I would go on with this if the war hadn't kicked us in the door, the war started by Russia, which is indefensible and inexplicable. We were just beginning to regain the security and freedom of our lives before the coronal virus epidemic, while we mourned our losses, we were able to rejoice again, and then this other destructive virus was released. For 14 days there has been a war in our neighbor, in a country where Hungarians on the other side of the border are worried about their lives and their futures. Last week, as a goodwill ambassador of the Hungarian Reformed Charity Service, I went to Transcarpathia with four of our bishops. I went to express that those Hungarians who decide to stay are as important to us as those who came and all other refugees in Ukraine. In trouble, we see unity. We also need this in peacetime. Many take the day off to volunteer to go to the border, thousands open their homes to refugees, churches and relief organizations have been working for centuries to pave the way for those in need of help with love and attention. The government, experienced in crisis management, provides all the necessary human and material resources to mitigate the consequences of the disaster. Help the teacher, the engineer, help the two-handed worker, the nurse, help the soldier, help the officers of the order, help the young, the old. We help each other in trouble. Thank you for that. There's nothing worse than a war. He wants to burn everything that is precious to us, attack peace, the safety of everyday life, the predictability of today and the serenity of tomorrow. Our national creed states that XX. After decades of moral upheaval of the century, spiritual and spiritual renewal is inexhaustible. That's the way it is now, the 21st. After the global moral upheaval of the early 20th century. We still need spiritual, spiritual renewal. The Hungarians want peace. We women don't want to win the war, we want to win the peace, because we can grow, build, plan, smile at each other in peace. As Mother Teresa said, peace begins with a smile. For the majority, today is no more than yesterday, but for me, honourable Members, today is a day of honor. When I said yes to my husband Stephen just 20 years ago, I knew, but I only partially understood what it meant to make a lifelong alliance, for better or for worse, in health, in sickness, in abundance or in deprivation. Since the birth of our 18 - year - old son, I have learned what it means to have taken on our children, Adam, Thomas, and Kata. My life, these are the most decisive decisions of our lives. I made important decisions when I chose the economics profession, then the diplomatic and then the public career. Thank you, János Martonyi, for letting me watch the tricks of classical diplomacy. I'm gonna need that knowledge. Thank you to Zoltán Balog for opening up a professional space for me in his ministry, and he taught me that the most important resource is God's creation, man. I consider it a gift that, for eight years, my government mission was to secure the future of families. I am grateful for the two hundred thousand children whom we have been able to give extra help to undertake, and I am grateful for the seven hundred thousand children who would have been born without this help. If we look beyond the borders of the country, more than a million Hungarian lives have been born in the world in ten years. Prime Minister, thank you for allowing me to participate in the nation building. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]] Today, one of us is going home with that heavy and sweet burden placed on his shoulders, that for the next five years with his life, work, appearance, the strength of his words, his actions, and, if necessary, with his silence, show us the true, beautiful face of the country, help us find in each other what we have in common, and to learn to crave after what is ours. [[9.50]] If I have to answer the question of who Katalin Novak is, I must first tell you where I came from. I'm from Szeged, even if I've been at XI since I was 18 years old. I live in a district. Without the stories of my grandparents, I wouldn't be who I am. I wish I could listen once more when my grandmother talks about how she got food for her half - year - old baby, while the Russian soldier pointed his machine gun at her, how the party official bloated behind their confiscated desk, how they took away the fruit of a life's work from the family! Their stories about captivity, running away, finding each other live with me. I retain the heat of the Dorozsma sand, the taste of freshly picked raspberry, the safety of my grandfather's strong arm. My brother and I learned from Mom and Dad what they received from their parents: the ability to recover and honor and honor. The heritage was seasoned with entrepreneurship, knowledge and diligence. Many of the family are here with me today. Thank you for coming. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] We can continue and start again whenever we can, we can build, we can strengthen what is ours. As long as we have hands, we have free will, they can't conquer us. This is the basis of our sovereignty. And the cradle of sovereignty is the family. I will never give up sovereignty in national terms. I can only do this in the family, only for a certain part of István Veres, who is supposed to be called first gentleman, but he remains István Veres. We women raise children, we nurse patients, we cook for two, we make money, we teach, we win Nobel Prizes, we clean windows. We know the power of words, but we can stand back and listen if we have to, and we protect our family with the courage to lie to men when there is danger. I wish to be a good President of Hungary not compared to the fact that I am a woman, but also thanks to the fact that I am a good President of Hungary. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I'm preparing for action. I'm ready to take on all the burdens this office puts on me. In the meantime, we will preserve the peace of our marriage and the safety of our family. As a mother and wife, I strive for this peace, understanding, security. As president, I want to be a man of peace. I am a member of the generation that was ready for national independence, which could have become an adult in peace in Hungary. We didn't have to risk our lives, our future for our principles, for the freedom of thought and action. We will not allow anyone to play Russian roulette with our precious independence. We, national emotional 40s, look at the world from Hungarian soil with Hungarian eyes. Our worldview is Hungarian even if we look at the whole thing. Ours is a proud generation, dared to walk with your head held high, does not fall to the stomach of a man who speaks English, he himself is able to manage in a foreign language, even abroad. And if his heart pulls him home, he's brave enough to come home. We no longer had to learn what it was like to live under Russian occupation, but we had the opportunity to understand what it meant to be part of Europe in nerves, blood, thought, pain, thirst. Many of us have studied, lived in Western Europe. We don't want to ape that world, but there are good things there that we can learn. It is worth deciphering the secret of the English lawn, even if a Hungarian flower meadow is closer to our hearts. Hungary will never be Switzerland. For us, Balaton is the Riviera, Kékes is the peak, water is the mineral treasure, educated person is the natural resource, Hungarian is our secret language, Bartók and Kodály are our brand, our neighbours are ours. We belong to Europe and Europe to us. We can't change that, and that's why we don't want to. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] This is the country of Hungarians, only here begins all the good recipes by cutting the onions and huming them into glass. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm standing in front of the Hungarian public. I know where I'm from, who I am, what I'm supposed to do. I'm prepared for the man-trying task in front of me. I've had time to think about what's waiting for me. Thank you to János Áder and his wife, Anita Herczegh, for sharing with me the experiences of the past ten and the previous years with altruistic and helpful purposes. Mr Speaker, dear László, Minister, dear Gergő, thank you for your friendship and for everything you've given me so far. It will be my job to raise my fellow nations to the height where Hungarians have a self-evident union. There, at that height there is understanding, peace and security. I know I have to show this union first; first, but not alone. I will have to represent all Hungarians. But how can I be all Hungarians, because we can't be everything and everyone? I too will remain who I am, and I will use the talents given to me to reach those who need the message of peace and understanding. I can also represent those who have different beliefs when I take the cross from my neck, but when I hold it to my heart and draw strength from my faith to understand others. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] That's how I'm gonna go to the families, the single parents, and the sick kids. I will support those who take care of life from the moment of conception, as a creed Christian I will be present and present in the believing community. I will go to talented young people, to Hungarians across the border and living in diaspora, but I will be there in New York, in Brussels, as in any capital if we have to stand up for our interests. I participate in the life of Hungarian ethnicities. I will visit the Roma Hungarians at the Gypsy colony at the end of the village, and I will be in the cities and villages. I am not preparing for country walks, I will simply be where I belong, I will be with the people I belong to: the Hungarians. Where will my first journey lead? Home to our family. And of course, I would like to visit our Polish friends in Warsaw as soon as possible. There will be parliamentary elections and referendums on 3 April. It's a crucial moment for you, for me, for all Hungarians. I trust that neither the first nor the manyth of these voters will lose sight of the national interest and the future of our children. One thing is certain: in the event of my election, I will stand on the foundation of what the Fundamental Law means, I will observe it, and I will enforce it with others. I will work, not to break down the legal order in force, but to maintain it as a guardian of constitutionality. I consider the warnings of our first king, St. Stephen, to be a standard: "Be merciful to all who suffer violence. Be gentle with everyone, not just with the powerful, but also with those who lack power. Be humble, mild, honest, coy. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Thank you for listening. May there be peace, freedom, and agreement. [[A long applause in the ranks of the governing parties. Attila Mesterházy and János Volner applaud.]]
u2022-03-10-1-35	Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Zsolt Róna, candidate for President of the Republic, will now take place in a 15-minute timeframe. I ask Mr Péter Zsolt Róna to come to the lecturer's stand and give his speech. [[Péter Zsolt Róna is accompanied by a staff member of the Office Security Service from the lodge to the pulpit. Applause.]] [[10.00]]
u2022-03-10-1-36	Dear compatriots, Dear Parliament, Mr President, Thank you for the nomination of the six opposition parties to the office of President of the Republic, the post that now has far greater responsibilities than usual. The Fundamental Law defines the role of the President of the Republic, that the President expresses the unity of the nation, and that he guards the democratic functioning of the state structure. Yes, this task is the cornerstone of all nations, and we are the cornerstone of our existence. But now that we are here again in the vicinity of a bloody war that, like World War II, has been triggered by a power with which our government, as it says, has close friendships, where is the unity that can be displayed? At that time, as a henchman of the German Empire, our leaders held to the end for destruction, for bloodshed, even when everyone had turned away from them. Now, when the whole world condemns Russia's carnage, we are once again unable to name it. We're afraid of what's gonna happen to us, and we're worried because we know we have something to do with what happened next door. The series of shocks, Light, Isonzo and Trianon, Red Terror and White Terror, one and a half million of our people, the Don bend, the Óbuda Brick Factory, the trains to Auschwitz, ÁVO and Andrássy Road 60. Which tragedy should we ignore in order to create the expressable unity that the Fundamental Law requires of the President of the Republic? Can't we really tell the good from the evil, the truth from the lie? It's almost incredible why so many of us couldn't see it, so many of us see that making friends with evil makes us evil, people who say good-bye to their own honor for the pleasure of power, and even face their former self. I believe and trust that this is not the Hungarian way, even if in our struggles, in 1848 or 1956 our fight for good and for the righteous has failed. I believe and trust that Ferenc Deák's wisdom and willingness to compromise, Árpád Göncz's love of home and man is stronger than those of our time. The path to healing isn't easy, but it's clear. Speaking of Ignatius Romsics, I also ask that Hungarians in Hungary see not an enemy, but another person. As nature draws its own strength, beauty and wealth from diversity, as the destruction of diversity is the cause of environmental degradation, social diversity is the measure of successful countries. And the oppression of diversity must lead to disaster. This pluribus unum, i.e. one of the many, is the Latin motto, which expresses the idea of forging unity from diversity, its preservation, not monotony, from our kind of rule over themselves. But how can you carry out the other task of guarding the democratic functioning of the state structure? Of course, it would help a lot if the Fundamental Law, which is a valid law, so we must abide by its provisions [[Gergely Gulyás applauds.]] At the same time, it would be in line with the generally accepted criteria of the credible constitution. It is the task of the Constitution to designate the limits of political power. In a democracy, it is not the government or the legislation that tells us what it is entitled to, but the nation decides what it gives the authority to legislate. Parliament does not create the Constitution, but the Constitution creates the Parliament. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The Fundamental Law, which now gives all power into the hands of the Parliament, entrusts cabbage to the goat, since all power, even the most pious, wants to gain the greatest possible power. And cemented power is a hotbed of corruption. As the great English historian Lord Acton put it, power corrupts, and absolute power corrupts. The Constitution is therefore not an organizational and operational code of power, but an agreement between the nation and the power in which the nation gives power to manage the affairs of the country within the limits set in the Constitution. There has been much talk in recent years about democracy, the rule of law, brakes and counterweights. These are very important, but they do not create the reconciliation of the nation, but reconciliation creates the common understanding on which these institutions can then be built. If we can't get along, there's no brake, no counterweight to save us. When almost the whole world is dominated by violence, when an epidemic sweeps through, when the destruction of war and nature makes millions of people run off, when the economic crisis continues to follow the economic crisis more rapidly and deeply, where, in what way can we find relief? By giving up our humanity, our dignity, our love and the truth, and then giving way to hatred? Definitely not. One of the answers to the challenge is to empower power to decide what to do and to obey it. This is the illiberal response, and it is the worst possible, because it does not seek agreement, but unanimity, it opposes the diversity that is the essence of nature and human nature, does not respect the sovereignty of man's conscience and free will, but sets them both under the sovereignty of power. [[10.10]] So what's the right answer? First of all, let us not damage what has long been agreed upon. There has been a huge social agreement since St. Stephen that we Hungarians want to belong to the West. Russia and Turkey are not our world, where the actions of their own opposition are retaliated brutally, murder and prison, but the Christian and enlightened West is our community. With our membership of the European Union, we can ensure our financial well-being and NATO guarantees our security. Why should all this be thrown aside for the friendship of a Russian dictator? Secondly, there will be no reconciliation without fairness and there will be no democratic institutions without reconciliation. So let's start with the most basic, that every Hungarian vote is worth as much as any other. It is not possible that the vote cast on the governing party at all times is worth one and a half times the vote cast on the opposition. [[Rumble and clear in the pro-government benches.]] It can't be that one gets to vote easily and the other doesn't. It can't be that one is hospitalized, and the other is only weeks, months, or not at all. There's no way 30 heavily armed SWAT guys are breaking into the workplace of a charity for the poor. But it is not possible that every seventh of our countrymen are forced to meet all their needs in deep poverty, out of or less than HUF 1750 a day, that 74 percent of our countrymen live well below the poverty threshold of the European Union, while others spend billions of HUF sunbathing on yachts with prostitutes [[Moore in the pro-government benches.]] that families are being evicted and homeless by a corrupt armpower based on a fraudulent foreign exchange credit scheme, that some people are drawing a shadow from inhumane executions. But it is not acceptable for thousands of teachers to choose the means of civil disobedience and strike to get the minimum they deserve. Of course, it can be said that this is not a matter of the President of the Republic, but of politics. But no! Fairness, justice, the protection of human dignity is a moral task, without which the appearance of the nation's unity can only be assured by violence. So let us reach out to each other, seek mutual understanding and healing of our historic wounds as soon as possible, and trust each other even if the other is weak and fallible, even if it is very different from us, even if it is wrong. [[This is what we're doing.]] I believe that everything that we trusted and believed in 56 and 89 can still be ours, that as a free and democratic state, we can be a happy, successful and respected nation of the European Community. God bless your country. God bless the Hungarians! [[A long applause in the ranks of the opposition. Péter Zsolt Róna is accompanied by a staff member of the Office-proof Service from the pulpit to the box.]]
u2022-03-10-1-37	Thank you for the speech of the presidential candidates. Dear Parliament, I am now presenting the rules of the election of the President of the Republic. According to Article 11 of the Fundamental Law, on the basis of the first vote, it is the President-elect who has received two thirds of the votes of the Members of Parliament. If the first vote was unsuccessful, a second vote shall be held. On the basis of the second vote, the President-elect shall be the President of the Republic who, regardless of the number of valid votes received for the voters. If the second vote fails, a new election shall be held on the basis of repeated nomination. The Parliament shall elect the President of the Republic by secret ballot for five years. Dear Parliament, The secret ballot process is as follows. Members can take the ballots from the group corresponding to the initials of their names, in alphabetical order, in four groups, in the Danube corridor of the House's Lower House meeting room. I would like to inform you that in the sectors, you can receive a piece of ballot paper and an envelope. Please confirm the fact of receipt on the sheets placed at the tables. I would like to inform you that the voting booth may also be used in the vote. Please place your nomination on the ballot box next to the candidate's name. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to briefly explain the voting rules and my fellow Members, with respect, to listen to this in their place.
u2022-03-10-1-38	Dear Parliament, The only way to vote is with the official ballots. A valid vote shall be deemed to be only what was cast on the candidate on the ballot-paper with two incisive lines placed in a square next to his name. The vote on which the Member has voted shall not be valid and shall not be beyond reasonable doubt. A vote that has not been cast on the official ballot paper or which lacks a stamp or if the vote sheet is taken by the Member but not thrown into the ballot box is void. I would like to inform you that if anyone fails to fill out the ballot paper, the members of the ballot counting committee at the ballot box will involve it and replace it with a new card.
u2022-03-10-1-39	Dear Parliament, During the voting period, only Members or members of the working group involved in the vote shall be allowed to remain in the Danube corridor of the Chamber. I announce that 40 minutes are available for the cast of votes, so it is possible to do so for 10 hours and 59 minutes. The results of the vote are expected to be presented in 80 minutes, at 11:39 p.m. Dear Parliament, I'm ordering the secret vote now. (Recess: 10.19-11.44) President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dr. Ádám Steinmetz)
u2022-03-10-1-40	Dear Parliament, I warmly welcome my fellow Members and welcome our guests. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. [[It's happening.]] Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I declare that the ballot counting committee has completed its work. It concluded that no event had taken place affecting the validity of the vote. 195 Members took part in the vote. Number of ballot papers found in the urn 193. Their distribution is as follows: the number of invalid votes is 5 and the number of valid votes is 188. Based on the count of valid votes, 137 representatives for Katalin Novák [[It's a long applause. Katalin Novak, standing up, thank you for your applause.]] In turn, 51 Members voted for Péter Zsolt Róna. On this basis, the notaries concluded that the vote was valid and effective. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! I would like to make the decision of the Parliament known. Under Article 10 (1) of the Fundamental Law, the National Assembly elects Katalin Novák as President of the Republic. Pursuant to Article 11 (6) of the Fundamental Law, the elected President of the Republic shall take office on the 10th day of May of 2022. 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, We now take the solemn oath of the President-elect of Hungary. I ask you to welcome the historical flags standing up and then sing the anthem of Hungary together. [[The people in this room stand up. The commanding officer shall enter through the entrance to the President's pulpit and request permission from the chairman of the Chamber to import historic flags and national flags from the centre of the Chamber, who shall grant the authorisation. In addition to the sound of the fanfares, the flags will march on both sides of the presidential pulpit, and then, joining the initial voice given by a representative, those in the hall will sing the Anthem.]] Thank you very much. Have a seat. [[It's happening.]] [[11.50]] Dear Parliament, I now invite President-elect Katalin Novák to come to the centre of the Chamber and take his oath. And my fellow Members and dear guests, I ask that we stand up and welcome the elected President of the Republic and listen to the oath. [[The people in this room stand up. Katalin Novak steps into the Chamber and goes to the microphone, accompanied by the workroom of the Office-proof Service.]]
u2022-03-10-1-41	I, Katalin Novák, pledge to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law, to keep its legislation and to keep it with others; to exercise my office as President of the Republic for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God. [[It's a long applause.]]
u2022-03-10-1-42	Thank you very much, fellow Members, take your seats. I now ask Mr József Attila Móring to prepare the oath papers for signature, and I ask the President-elect Katalin Novák to sign them. [[It's happening. Attila Móring József, who signed the oath document, congratulated Katalin Novák.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the President-elect will receive congratulations in the Chamber, first from President János Áder. [[The people in this room stand up. Applause. For Katalin Novák, first Dr. János Áder, then László Kövér, Viktor Orbán, dr. Zsolt Semjén, Péter Zsolt Róna, Máté Kocsis, dr. Judit Varga, dr. Judit Varga, dr. István Simicskó, Imre Ritter, dr. Sándor Pintér, Miklós Kásler, Andrea Mager, Gergely Gulyás, Antal Rogán, dr. István Nagy, János Süli, Mihály Varga, dr. László Palkovics, dr. Tibor Benkő, Péter Szijjjjártó, dr. Tamás Sulyok, dr. Zs Varga. András, Dr. György Seneyei Barna, Dr. Péter Polt, László Domokos, Balázs Rigó Csaba congratulations.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to congratulate the elected President of the Republic of Katalin Novák. [[Applause. The people in the room are sitting down.]] I wish you good work, good luck, God bless you. We'll wait for the President-elect to return to her box. Dear Parliament, As a solemn conclusion to the election of the President of the Republic, I ask that we sing the Word together and stand up and salute the withdrawal of the national flag and the historical flags. [[The people in the room stand up and join the initial voice given by a representative to sing the Vocabulary.]] Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Let's keep standing. [[The people in this room will remain standing. The commanding officer steps forward, and the flags leave the meeting room next to the sound of the fanfares.]] Thank you very much. Have a seat, ladies and gentlemen. [[It's happening.]] Dear Parliament, I would like to thank our dear guests for their participation, and I would like to inform my fellow Members that this is a 30-minute break, and the Parliament will then continue its work. (Recess: 12.00-12.33) President: István Jakab Note: László Földi és Dezső Believing)
u2022-03-10-1-43	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, The following is the 1997 CXXIV on the material conditions for the religious and public activities of the churches. The Commission's reports on the amendment of laws and other laws and the discussion of the draft amendment. Government referral T/18205. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, rapporteur of the committee. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-44	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 3 March 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed the 1997 CXXIV on the material conditions for the religious and public activities of the churches. T/18205 on the amendment of law and other laws Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 25 votes in favour, 6 against and 1 abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill submitted mainly contains a legislative and text-focusing amendment to the law on the material conditions for the religious and public activities of churches, which has been justified by the experience of the law enforcement of recent years, since the requirement of legal certainty and standard clarity also requires the establishment of coherence within the law. As a result of the change of model in the financing of higher education, the government decided to include qualitative and performance elements in the funding and thus to provide the same level of funding for ecclesiastical and model-changing institutions. The bill before us contains the general rules applicable to the public tasks and institutions of religious communities in higher education, of which I would point out that the new funding system should be applied to a specific circle of established churches, and should therefore be applied to established churches, their internal ecclesiastical legal entities and higher education institutions with a strategic framework agreement setting out the financing requirements for public higher education tasks or a comprehensive agreement including this subject. In the light of public service funding for higher education, the bill also sets out the concept of a public service mission in higher education, which is complemented by the fact that if the religious community carries out its public service mission in accordance with its internal rules by means of an internal body of ecclesiastical law, a single organisation or an institution maintained by it, it is also a public task in relation to the performance of the public service mission in higher education. I welcome the fact that the bill sets out the mandatory content and detailed rules of the concept of a public service financing contract between the Minister for Higher Education and the established church with an agreement in the framework of long-term quality and performance funding. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to what has been said, the bill contains further substantive provisions on which I would like to briefly mention. Historical debt will be repaid by declaring Baja and Esztergom once again a county-righted city, which lost its status in the 1950s communist. The draft law proposes the introduction into the scheme of corporate tax advantages applicable from 1 January 2022 of any initial investment by a large company in Pest County with the exception of the capital city may qualify for State aid. It should be noted that large enterprises in Pest County, with the exception of Budapest, will cease to be subject to restrictions, additional conditions, and proposed changes in both the development tax reduction and the energy efficiency tax reduction will help to increase investment in Pest County, contributing to an increase in investment in the region. The bill also provides for the amendment of the nuclear law in order to extend the powers of the President of the National Atomic Energy Office. The submitted bill also provides that the law on the protection of cultural heritage will be amended in such a way that the National Memorial Site of the Castle District of Budapest will be expanded with the building of the Castle Garden Bazaar. In addition to the above, the proposal includes certain amendments to the area of asset management. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the amendments envisaged in the legislative proposal are a guarantee to strengthen the previously acquired rights of churches, strengthen the value-creating activities of churches, public recognition and serve the additional legislative objectives. Therefore, in view of what has been said, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the ranks of the governing parties and spokespersons.]]
u2022-03-10-1-45	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Azbej Tristan, on behalf of the rapporteur, at this stage of the debate or at a later stage of the debate. [[Azbej Tristan: After the comments.]] Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. We now have speeches from Members. I give the floor to the Bulgarian ethnic advocate Varga Simeon, the rapporteur of the committee on ethnicities in Hungary, who will present the first sentences of his speech in the language of nationality, and then translate them into Hungarian. You have the floor, Mr. Speaker. [[12.40]]
u2022-03-10-1-46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на Малцинствената комисия в Унгария и involving моето име. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and myself, to welcome you. As a spokesperson invited by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, I would like to inform the Parliament that, at the meeting of our committee on 28 February 2022, the CXXIV of 1997 on the material conditions for the religious and public activities of the churches had been held. T/18205 on the amendment of law and other laws I.e. 1-53. § and Annexes 1 to 3. No amendments were tabled to this bill, and our committee did not intend to make any further amendments, so the committee did not submit an amendment closing a detailed debate and adopted the report on the detailed debate with 13 other unanimous votes. One of the main pledges of the survival of Hungarian nationalities was the exercise of their faith, through which our ancestors were able to pass on their ethnic language and traditions to the next generation for centuries. Thanks to the Government of Hungary for the help and financial support that has been provided so far and in the future, it will help the functioning and reconstruction of their churches, which constitute the exercise and survival of nationalities. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Churches play an important role in the preservation of national identity and are linked to this in shaping the whole society's approach. Therefore, nationalities in Hungary are supporting all regulations where churches receive guarantees and additional space in the field of education of the future generation. In view of all this, the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary is CXXIV of 1997 on the material conditions for the religious and public activities of churches. T/18205 on the amendment of law and other laws Recommends to Parliament for adoption of bill No. Thank you for your attention. Благодаря завашето внимание.
u2022-03-10-1-47	Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members in the time frame on the agenda. No two-minute comments are possible. Mr László Keresztes, Mr Lóránt, Group leader, LMP Group has applied for a speech. You have the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-48	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I'd start with what we agree with about the law. There are some elements in the bill that we have also presented in the general debate, which we can agree with, with the fact that we are talking about a salad law covering a very wide circle. I would also like to mention here that we agree that the cities of Baja and Esztergom will receive their worthy county-rights, but I am not happy that this will be achieved in such an unworthy way. I think that in the last 12 years, the government would have had the opportunity to fill this gap with such a proposal and welcome these two Hungarian cities with wonderful and great historical traditions among county-rights, but this was presented as part of one of the sub-headings of a salad law, so that the bill does not actually mention these two cities, which, I think, is definitely unworthy. Therefore, the objective must be supported, but it should not have been hidden in the last moment of an election campaign, in the last law submitted. I think that both cities deserved to be brought here as separate legislative proposals, and I think that it would have been worthy to invite the mayor of both cities, and then in their presence, under the right conditions, we could have voted on these issues together. And the other thing I would like to mention, which Mr Vejkey did not modestly mention when presenting the opinion of the Legislative Committee, is that, here in the salad law, harsh amendments such as the amendment of the nuclear law are being made, this is being changed on several points, and it is clear to what purpose you have made this. Again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the salad law amends the nuclear law in such a way as to assist the Russian Paks II project in your intention that the design documentation of a nuclear power plant should no longer be translated into Hungarian. I think it's an extreme situation. It can be seen that the Russians are unfit to prepare the design documentation according to European and Hungarian standards, and that the majority of the Fidesz-KDNPs here have constantly changed the legal order in recent years in order to push through this authorisation documentation in some way, which, by the way, was rightly rejected by the National Atomic Energy Office in the autumn of last year. I think we all know that we have witnessed shocking developments in this matter since the general debate. It can be seen that the country to whom you applied for the Paks II project, which sold generations in Hungary, has now been attacked by Vladimir Putin's order by an independent sovereign state. Putin ordered the Russian army to attack civilian facilities, assassinate civilians, and, in addition to the horrors of the war, waged a military attack on Europe's largest nuclear power plant. We have also seen a number of missile attacks on radioactive waste storage sites, and in recent days we have also read alarming news that, in the context of the Russian invasion, the Chernobyl nuclear power plant has lost its power supply, and this is also a serious threat. Around all international organisations have expressed their objections here, but it seems that the Fidesz-KDNP and Viktor Orbán and their government do not hear these very, very important distress signals. At the same time, one of your former State Secretarys, aszodi Attila made a very clear blog post last Friday, and he spoke very harshly about what Russia is doing. It draws attention to the fact that the International Atomic Energy Agency has also stated that an armed attack and threat to nuclear facilities for peaceful purposes constitute a violation of the principles of the United Nations Charter, international law and the Statute of the International Atomic Energy Agency. Professor Attila Aszódi also explains that he does not understand how Russia intends to carry out nuclear power projects with any country in the future, after not respecting the basic international conventions. It is not enough that international law is not respected by Russia and Vladimir Putin, but nuclear safety has been ignored ever since they threatened the world with nuclear weapons. Here is my question to the Secretary of State, is he not here to present a salad law on behalf of the government: do you still think that the Government of Hungary, Viktor Orbán and the Government of Hungary are a suitable partner for the authorisation, planning or implementation of a new Hungarian nuclear power plant, or are they willing to reevaluate the international situation, and, by the way, in agreement with your Fidesz delegation to the European Parliament, to accept the decision to stop the permission of Paks II? Will you finally accept that a nuclear cemetery cannot be built next to the largest city in Transdanubia? You can see that in a military conflict, these nuclear facilities, nuclear waste reservoirs, immediately become targets. So I think it's an extreme idea to get to the point of building a nuclear cemetery in the immediate vicinity of a metropolitan agglomeration. I also have to draw attention to another serious problem: in recent years, a uranium mine has been authorised stealthy, right, the acquisition of mining rights, the development of mining sites, and here it may arise that mining rights, if this new project is granted permission, could be bought by the Russians, and that for military purposes Hungary's uranium wealth could be acquired. What is the government's position, do you agree with our firm position that immediate legal guarantees must be provided so that Russia can never acquire the rights over the Hungarian uranium ore? I very much hope that the Secretary of State can answer these questions. Thank you very much. [[12.50]]
u2022-03-10-1-49	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, an independent representative. Here you go.
u2022-03-10-1-50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We are discussing the last bill of the parliamentary term of 2018-22, the feature of which is that it does not differ from the last four years' legislative work of Fidesz. We're dealing with the same salad law, where it changes completely distant topics in a bill, gives us an address that has virtually nothing to do with its contents. And what is most important is that it hides amendments to its rules, in the broad spectrum, in case opposition representatives do not spot out the very harsh amendments that this package of laws contains. This last bill is no different when we talk about the fact that Fidesz is not characterized by elegance, because, as I said in my expoze, at the beginning of the trial of the bill, Baja and Esztergom will be a city with county rights, so that these two names are not even written in the bill, but these two cities with county rights will be included in an annex, which, as my fellow Member László Keresztes said, could have happened in twelve years, should not have waited for the last bill of the cycle. Then it is also very harsh, especially in the shadow of the war, that it is extending the operation of the Atomic Energy Office and its leader's powers in such a way that it will specifically achieve that Parliament will have little control over the use of nuclear power plants. Of course, it's political on the cake that they want to entrust Paks II to a country. its construction, which is engaged in war in the same way that it is most important for it to absorb, destroy and destroy nuclear power plants in Ukraine. We don't even know what he's really trying to do with her because he's shooting her at the same time, and he wants to run it at the same time. What I can say about this proposal, here at the end of the cycle, at the end of the term, is that I have so much hope over the four years that perhaps in a case, perhaps in a bill, some kind of cooperation, some kind of elegance, some kind of style, some kind of professionalism, some kind of work for a common good can be seen at some point from the Fidesz bill, but we will conclude this cycle with only the pompousness, the arrogance and all that I can do with my two-thirds of the style of legislation. I wanted to have some impact on the agenda of the most important issues for people, the issues that make life difficult for people every day; let everyone get out of the bubble in which they live, because most of the Members live in a bubble, go to the people, see the real problems, and instead deal with people's problems. It is a great pleasure to hear the statement by Mr Simeon, a Bulgarian advocate, because he has analysed this bill from the point of view of which it is important for them as nationalities and for the beliefs of nationalities, but it is important to put forward legislative proposals, proposals for amendments, which are harshly attacking democracy and the control of Parliament. A hundred words have one end: I think that at least the last bill could have been more elegant, decent Fidesz, but it doesn't seem to be going to happen anymore. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-03-10-1-51	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-03-10-1-52	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It is very interesting, I listened to my fellow Member, Mr László Keresztes, and Andrea Varga-Damm, who repeated his points of accusations in the general debate, to which Mr Miklós Soltész, and I, in particular, responded, so they repeated the same things once again. Congresswoman Varga-Damm and I agree that this is a salad law. Yeah, it's a salad law. That is all you have said, the truth, because to attack such things as to give two cities the title of the county-righted city as historical satisfaction; that the public service of the churches in public education and higher education will be extended and included in a system, adding more support by law, I think that it is very, very much a return to me, who is glad that the churches will receive the necessary support in public education, receive it in higher education, and receive it in faith and community building. Because I do believe that the community-building work of churches and their role in Hungarian society is very great, honourable Member, whether in the life of nationalities and in the life of any domestic community the churches have a huge role to play, and we would like it to remain that way and not turn back. Madam Congresswoman, it was not fair to say that the supervision of the Atomic Energy Office will no longer be lost by the Parliament, since the Parliament continues to ensure the greatest supervision, and it is the democratically elected Parliament of Hungary that ensures supervision in the Atomic Energy Office. And I do not understand why the congresswoman is attacking this bill when, by amending the Public Procurement Act, public procurement in Hungary will be stricter and more transparent with the current legislative amendment. So I think that, as we have explained in the general debate why these amendments are necessary, in the general debates we have explained how much recognition this proposal is for Esztergom and Baja, and we have also explained how its parts fit into the Hungarian legal order and why they make the Hungarian legal order better and how they help our communities, well, I think it is necessary to support this bill, as we have said in the general debate. The Congresswoman objected to the consensus, the national unity; we will soon begin the general debate on the political declaration condemning Russia's aggression, where everyone will have the opportunity to express the consensus and to adopt this declaration jointly and unanimously. Thank you very much.
u2022-03-10-1-53	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr József Szolga, a Croatian advocate, to the extent possible. You have the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-54	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Poštovani Gospodine Predsjedniče! Dear House, Poštovani Dome! Dear Secretary of State, Poštovani gospodine državni tajniče! The Bulgarian spokesperson presented the joint opinion of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. On behalf of Croatian nationality, I would like to highlight among the provisions of the draft law the amendments to the law on local authorities, with the entry into force of which the municipalities of Baja and Esztergom will rise to the status of county towns. I would particularly like to mention Baja, whose history and development is unimaginable without mentioning the Croatian ethnic groups in the Carpathian Basin. The first residents are included in the Annex XV-XVII. It was recorded between the century and the century. The report on the parishes in Bácska from 1672 already includes 13 121 Croatians. During the second wave of settlement, Franciscan monks, urban citizens, craftsmen and merchants also arrived from Bosnia. Recognizing their efforts to develop settlements, Baja rose in 1696 to a metropolitan position. The local Franciscan church and church, built by the Croatians, as well as schools, strengthened the city's central role. Annex XVIII to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended as follows: In the first half of the century, Croatian citizens in Baja had an absolute majority. In Bács-Bodrog they also had their own nobility and advanced citizenship, so they took a significant part in the political life of the county. In the revolution of 1848 the Hungarian Croatian ethnic group joined the Hungarian revolution, and the Bunyevacs of Bacska joined the national guard and the military. The Croatian National Renewal Movement initiated by Bishop János Antuovich was also affected by Baja. After the settlement, cultural life was revived, reading circles were created, newspapers and books were published. Čitaonica, founded before World War I, was the flagship of the community for a long time. After Trianon, the split community had to look for new ways. Between the two world wars, the city became the centre of the county. The post-World War II period was shaded by communist ideology and the lack of all bases of South Slavism. Following the change of regime, Croatia became independent, and the establishment of Croatian cultural autonomy in Baja again gave a new impetus: Croatian teaching was started; Croatian language and ethnographic education is taking place in primary school; the city's Croatian self-government is elected every four years. The Croatian Bunyevac tradition has been revived: national tambourafestival, harvest feast, Dužijanca Vojvodina participants; folk customs in Farsang, the masquerading, which can grow into an event similar to that of the Mohács Croatians in the future. [[13.00]] The National Croatian Municipality, strengthening the infrastructure of Croatian ethnic groups in Bacska, founded the Cultural Center of Croatians in Bácska. Dear Secretary of State, We are honoured by the bács-bodrogic predecessors of Hungarian Croatians, recognised as indigenous nationalities. Their urban and cultural heritage has greatly contributed to Baja becoming worthy of county-righted urban status. We also thank the Hungarian Government for the recognition at the legal level, and we also ask that it continue not to support any initiative aimed at dismembering the Croatian community in Hungary. In recent times, the efforts of the Bunyevac independence have been strengthened again, which the Hungarian Parliament has, on the basis of the study of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, strongly rejected several times. On behalf of the Hungarian Croatian community, I must reject the speech made by Dr. Andrea Varga-Damm in February, which contained a divider and an instigation against the community. I'm sorry Congresswoman isn't here. I would ask you to stop attacking our nationalities, the exclusion of the Croatian subethnic group, the bungalows, and do not call on the boycott of the census, in violation of the law, and within this, the confession of free identity. I also call on the representatives of the Bunyevac Cultural Institute Foundation and the people gathered around it to stop their efforts to disrupt Croatian nationality in Baja. I indicate that more than 70 percent of the Croatian representatives of the region, the president of the Croatian association, the vice-president of the national government, are of Bunyevac origin and proud to be Croatian, as well as several renowned intellectuals. Dear Parliament, In my view, there is no room for efforts to share in the current social and political environment. I can say that the Croatian community in Hungary is united in rejecting all acts of war and joining humanitarian aid. I ask you to vote in favour of this bill because Baja deserves it. Go, go, go, go, go! Thank you very much for your attention. Hvala na posornosti! Thank you for your patience.
u2022-03-10-1-55	Thank you, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State Azbei Tristan, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-03-10-1-56	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The last bill of the parliamentary term of 2018-22 is before us, which primarily contains amendments to the law on the material conditions for the religious and public activities of the churches, but, as mentioned in the general debate of the draft, the proposal seeks to improve many other legal areas, and, based on practical experience, it is necessary to introduce an amendment into the regulation. It is true that there are several areas involved in this bill. I find it a particular way of debate and technique that from the opposition side, Mr Keresztes and Congresswoman Varga-Damm asked their questions during the general debate, received answers, asked the same questions and left the Chamber. For this reason, I do not wish to give the same answers to the same questions once again, since the position has already been expressed by the national and the pro-government representatives. As the main provisions of our amendment proposal have already been made in detail, allow me now to highlight only a few of them without the need for completeness. First of all, in the context of financing the provision of church public service, it is necessary to point out once again that the Government of Hungary is committed to cooperating and supporting the religious communities of the country. To this end, the bill also regulates the rules of cooperation between the state and churches in the field of public service, asset management and cultural regulation, as well as in the field of higher education and social education, thereby strengthening the existing guarantee rules and complementing them. The legislative committee's own amendment proposal added that it would clarify that the public service activities of the established church should be financed on the basis of the nature of the activity and not according to the organisational classification of the service provider. Thus, the legislator may remedy a practical problem by declaring that if the established churches provide the defined public services through a foundation or association with the exclusive participation of more than one established church, the provision of public services by the same established church is considered to be a public service and the additional support for this should be paid directly to the Foundation or the association. Dear House, The aim of the bill is also to pay off one of the country's old debts, so it also provides for the promotion of Esztergom and Baja county-righted urban status, thanks to the sacrifices of the people of Esztergom and Baja, which have been carried out in the interests of their city, region and country over the past decades. During our history, external and internal forces have repeatedly attempted to break up the country's organic administrative fabric and thus weaken the country's immune system. The county system and its headquarters, which is the protective bulwark of Hungarian sovereignty, have been liquidated, rendered impossible or empty. Esztergom and Baja were both victims of such an attack. However, as we have already placed great emphasis on the general debate on the bill, these two cities deserve recognition not only because of their historical past, but also because of their recent and present. For both cities, they serve as an economic, cultural, educational and administrative centre not only for local residents but also for their entire region. This is accompanied by the transitional provision under which cities are provided with sufficient preparation time to provide additional public services to the whole or a large part of the county beyond their territory, following the general election of local government representatives and mayors in 2024, from the formation of the general assembly of the county-righted city from the establishment of their tasks arising from county-righted urban status. Dear Parliament, The Legislative Committee's own amendment has made a number of changes to the bill in terms of technical, text-focused, linguistic and technical aspects, but there is also a technical amendment that has been made in response to the sad events of the last few days. This is the law on public procurement, Kbt. It is also an addition to its amendment to the Government's reflection on the situation arising from the Russian-Ukrainian conflict by ensuring that the supply of persons fleeing Ukraine who are eligible for temporary protection in Hungary is ensured as quickly and as fully as possible. Accordingly, supplies, services orders and works with an estimated value of less than HUF 300 million relating to the supply of persons who are recognised as eligible for temporary protection below the EU threshold are excluded. from the scope of this Regulation. The Kbt. to this end, it will also be extended by a mandate for a Government Decree establishing a specific procedure. Dear Parliament, The bill before us is not only the current parliamentary session, but also the last bill to be adopted in the 2018-22 cycle, so I have the honour to thank all those who have helped Parliament with its work. Thank you, during the debates on the legislative proposals, for the constructive, patriotic, constructive contributions of the ladies and Members, which have repeatedly contributed to the search for solutions to a legal problem and to the continuation of a legal line of thought. [[13.10]] As has been the case so far, so does this bill, which I propose to adopt. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-03-10-1-57	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken on this day. Dear Parliament, Before we get to our next item on the agenda, I would like to inform you that the debate on our agenda on the Legislative Committee is currently being continued by our fellow Members. Therefore, a break of 13 hours and 30 minutes is expected until the end of the TAB meeting. Thank you for your understanding. We'll resume our work at 1:30. (Recess: 13.11-13.47) President: István Jakab Note: László Földi és Dezső Believing)
u2022-03-10-1-58	Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your understanding. The TAB decisions have been made, our fellow Members have arrived and we will continue our work. Dear Parliament, A joint debate on the proposal for a political declaration on the Russian-Ukrainian war. Proposal submitted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs P/18373. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. In the debate, I shall give the floor to Mr Zsolt Németh, the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the author of the proposal for a political declaration. Before I give the floor, I would like to inform the President that he has a total time frame of 20 minutes for the opening speech, the speech during the debate and the rejoinder. Mr. President, you have the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-59	Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Two weeks ago, the war has started, which has been working day and night for international public opinion, for us, and has created a completely new international foreign policy and Hungarian foreign policy environment. Today, the Hungarian Parliament is debating the political statement adopted yesterday by the Committee on Foreign Affairs unanimously, while the opposition representatives are absent. But I must say that I welcome today's developments that we have learned that the opposition also has support for the political declaration; let us leave it at that for now. I think it is crucial that we have a clear yet calm Hungarian consensus on war and peace. In the last two weeks, we have seen a surprising unity forming on the international stage. Why should we not have such a unified position in Hungarian politics, which passes through the debates on party policy? The most important statement of this political statement is that a new situation has been created in the last two weeks. The war created a whole new situation, so that what previously described Hungarian-Ukrainian relations is a thing of the past. At the beginning of the new time, I would like to express what is perhaps not unnecessary, that we are clearly in favour of Ukraine's territorial integrity and sovereignty. In recent years, Hungarian-Ukrainian relations have been ruffled by very serious debates. We were talking about education law, language law, citizenship issues, very serious conflicts due to secret service activities. We are putting these debates aside, and we are trying to establish a new quality cooperation with Ukraine, which, by the way, marked the last thirty years, because Hungary, as stated in the political statement, first recognised the independent Ukraine and, among the first, set up an embassy in Kiev, and I would say that until 2017, we had a fruitful bilateral relationship system. The least we could do was to compare our neighbours with Ukraine. In recent years, however, this has turned around, and the most difficult situation is the Transcarpathian Hungarians, and most of our debates were born with Ukraine. At this point, I would like to welcome Mr László Brenzovics, President of KMKZSK here in the Chamber, who will personally follow this debate. Thank you very much for being here with us, Mr President, and thank you very much for helping us in the last few days, weeks, months and years with the calm, balanced approach to all Hungarian policy making. I think it is important to stress that part of our political statement is the position that Hungary is in favour of opening accession negotiations in Ukraine. This has a very important political significance. I think that this could not have happened without the war situation in the last two weeks. But now not only Hungary, but in a welcome way a very wide group of countries think so. There is no EU unity on this issue, I would like to emphasise this, as there is very rarely an EU unity on enlargement issues, but let us hope that in the coming period we will be able to enforce this position on a pan-European stage, because Europe, the European Union, does have room for manoeuvre in this area. And why should Ukraine also step into the wheel of squirrels, as we have had to go through over the past decades? [[13.50]] I am not saying that this negotiation process will not have any ups and downs, but the beginning of accession negotiations, the granting of candidate status, I think that in this situation, Ukraine will have a very important political message if we can achieve results. And likewise, I think it is important that this statement makes it clear that we clearly condemn Russian military aggression and support any sanctions imposed and imposed by the international community on Russia. This position has also been confirmed by the joint declaration adopted by the V4 countries with British Prime Minister Boris Johnson. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members who are interested in foreign policy, to the public: a very important document has been drawn up as a result of the negotiations between the V4 and the British prime ministers. In addition to defining the common denominator of the approach, the creation of a common humanitarian fund of EUR 1 million for the V4 and the United Kingdom is an important part of this. We trust that this humanitarian cooperation will continue, expand and deepen within the framework of the V4. The Hungarian position, I believe, can be summarised in four words: peace, security, unity and solidarity, this is reflected in the political declaration. Peace means the cessation of acts of war, the initiation of ceasefire, humanitarian and peace negotiations; I consider them all important, even if it is not peace negotiations, and humanitarian negotiations are also very important, since opening humanitarian corridors can greatly reduce the number of casualties that have already been partially successful in humanitarian negotiations between the two parties. And I believe that it is important to express this commitment to peace because, as the number of victims increases, the international community is increasingly responsible for the lack of peace and the continuation of acts of war. The responsibility of the international community cannot be considered secondary in this situation. I consider it very regrettable that while there was a formation in Minsk that Germany and France took part in, bilateral negotiations are currently taking place between Ukraine and Russia. Without the international community, it will not be possible to achieve lasting peace, and we therefore want a serious international participation and support to emerge as soon as possible behind the peace efforts. Let me draw attention to the fact that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán also adopted his last visit to Moscow as a peace mission. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] More important effort in the coming period to alleviate the catastrophic situation than multiplying and accelerating peace efforts, I believe, is not. With regard to security, I would like to stress that the safety of Hungarian people at the border from here and beyond is a starting point for Hungary in the current situation of axiom. It must be prevented from spreading the war, and in this respect it is very important, and I would draw your attention to the fact that this is precisely the emphasis on NATO's Secretary-General and NATO's approach in our political statement, and we are also underlining it; NATO's position and the Hungarian position in this respect are fully in line. Hungary must therefore stay out of this war, Hungary will not send soldiers, just as NATO will not send soldiers, Hungary will not deliver this to Ukraine through the Hungarian-Ukrainian border. And the equally important aspect of security today, in addition to military security, is energy security. The continuity and security of energy and, in particular, gas and oil supplies should be preserved as long as possible, and in this current situation, in this war situation, it is in any case a value that is a key issue for both the European economy and the Hungarian economy; it is essential not only for the economy but also for our ordinary lives that gas and oil supplies continue. Hungary cannot, therefore, support or support the extension of sanctions to the energy field, and we are not alone on this issue, as the decisive EU Member States fully agree with this approach. It is possible to take a position on the other side of the Atlantic that they do not buy oil and gas from Russia, that is not possible in Europe; because of our different situation, we have come to different conclusions, but we are still allies. [[14.00]] We cannot, therefore, make the Hungarian people pay the price of the war. I think that, while there will be discussions between us on the issue of energy in the coming minutes, this position, that we do not support the extension of sanctions in the field of energy, is now welcome to be a Hungarian position. Perhaps one of the most important developments in this consensus, which I hope will surround this political declaration, is precisely this issue. Unit. NATO, the unity of the European Union, can be heard. I would like to emphasise the unity of V4 because there have been concerns about this in recent days. In particular, despite the differences in emphasis between the Hungarian and Polish approaches, there is a common V4 voice, there is a common V4 position, and we strive to minimise the differences in emphasis. As far as the Council of Europe is concerned, I would like to draw your attention here to the fact that Russia is suspended for the time being, but a Twitter message has appeared in recent minutes that Russia is abolishing the membership of the Council of Europe. This may give a different perspective to the meeting of the extraordinary Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe next week or the meeting of the Ministerial Committee. So there is a united, strong and responsible common voice and joint action in the Western world, and we urge this to be maintained. Hungary has been an instrument and part of this consensus building over the past period, and has taken over and supported all the sanctions that have been adopted by these organisations. Finally, I would like to draw attention to solidarity. We need two-way solidarity in the coming time, and this will remain with us for a very long time, above all the issue of refugees. The number of refugees exceeded two million, we registered more than 200,000 refugees in Hungary so far. The number of Hungarian refugees is the second most important after the Polish population, and I would like to draw attention to this in particular. The kind of commitment, attention, and wide-ranging care that we have with regard to refugees, I think it is important for them to survive, and it deserves the greatest recognition of all government, civil society, church and local government institutions that do their part. Here the limit of our opportunities is the starry sky, Hungary accepts everyone, let us do everything we can to provide for the refugees! Another way of expressing solidarity is to reduce the humanitarian disaster in Ukraine, and I stress that throughout Ukraine, but there is a kind of concentricity of responsibility, human responsibility, and so we bravely undertake to place particular emphasis on Transcarpathia. I welcome the fact that there has been good cooperation with the Transcarpathian county leadership over the past few years, and we bravely agree that the Transcarpathian Hungarians, at the head of KMKZ and the historical churches, enjoy our attention and compassion in particular. Their help, i.e. Ukraine, Transcarpathia, and the help of the Hungarians who live there, is one of our main administrative tasks in the coming period. There is nothing to be ashamed of in this area, and I hope that it will not be so in the coming period. Thank you very much for your attention. Dear House, I am pleased that we are approaching a Hungarian position close to a consensus, and I trust that we will be able to leave behind the debates that unfortunately shared Hungarian internal politics in the last two weeks. I believe that there is no need for the election campaign to be part of the issue of war. It would be a pleasure if the opposition did not consider war to be a miracle weapon in order to improve its position. [[Gergely Harvester laughs.]] I'd like that. The fact that the opposition has taken such a step to support our political declaration is a decisive step in making it clear that Hungary does not send weapons, does not send soldiers, we do not want to close the taps, we do not regard Transcarpathian Hungarians as friends of the Russians. If we can agree on these issues, and it seems that we do, then I think that the Committee on Foreign Affairs initiative on the political declaration has done its part for the safety of Hungarian people, both here and beyond. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-03-10-1-60	Thank you very much. Mr President, I would like to inform you, Mr President, that a timeframe of three minutes will be available for further debate and closing. Dear Parliament, I ask you, on the part of the government, there is someone who wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Magyar Levente. Here you go.
u2022-03-10-1-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to briefly describe the government's position on the plan. As the President said, despite the diplomatic efforts of the last few months, after more than two decades of peace, there is a war again in Hungary's immediate neighbourhood. There can be no doubt that this is the worst possible scenario for our country. We can say decisively about the situation if Hungary has condemned Russia's armed attack on Ukraine, and if Hungary has once again declared its support for our neighbour's territorial integrity and sovereignty; Hungary strongly supports the unity of the EU and NATO, the joint responses expressed in these organisations. In this way, we have supported all EU restrictive measures and we are in line with our obligations as allies. Because of our geographical proximity, war also poses a direct security risk to Hungary. Our aim is therefore clear: Hungary must stay out of this conflict. Our task is to guarantee the safety of our country and the Hungarian people, the Hungarian people. Therefore, we do not allow the transport of deadly devices through the Hungarian-Ukrainian border, nor do we carry weapons to Ukraine on a bilateral basis, since these shipments are considered military targets. We feel irresponsible about the manifestations that are contrary and call for the transport of weapons to Ukraine and the sending of Hungarian soldiers to war. There is only one way to interpret such statements that opposition political forces want to bring our country to war. We reject all such manifestations and initiatives, we do not allow Hungary to get involved in the war and protect the safety of Hungarian people. I also draw attention to the fact that we cannot support sanctions in the energy sector, as this could put our country's energy security at risk. Obviously, we can't afford that. Our efforts must be focused on restoring peace as soon as possible. The sooner we achieve this, the fewer people will lose their lives and the sooner the mass suffering will end. Therefore, as a responsible member of the United Nations, NATO, the EU and the Council of Europe, we support any effort and mediation attempt aimed at achieving peace as soon as possible. We are responsible for the fate of Hungarians living outside our borders, so it is essential that we keep an eye on the lives and safety of Hungarians in Transcarpathia in our decisions and manifestations. Members of the indigenous Hungarian community living in Transcarpathia are loyal, loyal and valuable citizens of Ukraine, which has never been questioned by anyone, contributing to the well-being and diversity of Ukraine. Hungary sees this national community as a bridge, a resource that connects us to a developing Ukraine that provides security and prosperity to everyone in its homeland. [[14.10]] We therefore reject as strongly as possible any manifestation, irresponsible political voices that could endanger the Transcarpathian Hungarians who are attached to their homeland. On numerous occasions, we have expressed our intention to build good neighbourly and friendly relations with Ukraine. Accordingly, we support the European perspective of the country, its status as an EU candidate and the early start of its accession process. As a result of the armed conflict, the number of refugees leaving Ukraine can now be measured in millions. It is therefore our natural obligation to help all those who are forced to leave Ukraine. Accordingly, our country has taken unprecedented humanitarian action to help those in need. Appreciation is due to all Hungarians who help in this extraordinary situation. This is another example of the cooperation of the Hungarians, which is now essential once again to meet the challenges ahead and to protect our people and our country. In view of all this, I believe that the political declaration on the Russian-Ukrainian war is an important proof of our joint action and of our united stand, so I propose that it be adopted by the honourable Parliament. I would particularly like to highlight the importance of what Mr President said, that if political consensus on this issue can be reached between the parties of the Hungarian Parliament, it can be a particularly strong message for both Ukraine and all parties involved, and Hungary, I think, will also be seen in a positive way on the international stage. I ask that everyone consider their decision in light of this. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-03-10-1-62	I thank the Secretary of State, Hungarian Levente, for his speech. I would like to inform you that there is a time frame of 4 minutes for further speeches. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, rapporteur of the committee.
u2022-03-10-1-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee discussed the Russian-Ukrainian War, P/18373, at its meeting held today on 10 March 2022. Proposal for a policy statement No 1. The summary report of the committee is set out in Rule 82 of the House Rules. By 29 votes in favour, not in favour, with 2 abstentions. Dear House, In this statement, the Parliament summarises its political position on the Russian-Ukrainian war. The government has done this in a number of clear ways, but it is important that this be done at the highest level of popular representation, in the Parliament. The Parliament declares that Hungary condemns Russian aggression and stands for Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity. It supports any initiative aimed at halting bloodshed, opening peace talks and mediation between the parties. Hungary must stay out of this war. This is why the declaration states that our country does not send soldiers to the Ukrainian military scene, does not supply weapons on a bilateral basis, and does not contribute to the transport of weapons capable of killing life through the Hungarian-Ukrainian border, but supports all joint efforts by NATO, the United Nations, the OSCE, the Council of Europe and the European Union that contribute to peace as soon as possible. In this situation, ladies and gentlemen, we have a special responsibility for two communities. The first is the community of Transcarpathian Hungarians. It comes from our responsibility to them that we are independent, developing, in a democratic Ukraine that provides security and prosperity to all its citizens in their homeland. The other group belongs to the refugees. It is our duty to help everyone who, fleeing the war, enters the territory of our country as the first safe country, regardless of their nationality and nationality. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Ladies and gentlemen, It is unfortunate and painful to see and hear every day that the candidate for Prime Minister of the Left does not share these views. The left only has his own campaign points in mind, he doesn't care about the safety of Hungarians. Ladies and gentlemen, this kind of swing policy is very dangerous. That's what they say today, another day they say otherwise. [[Defiance from the opposition benches. Gergely Harvester: Cruel!]] Yesterday, they did not attend this important meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: They're out!]] They went out, and today they attended a meeting of the Legislative Committee, and there were those who supported it, and there were those who abstained. But in a war, you can't jump out and jump in. They make very dangerous and irresponsible statements, thus putting the Hungarians in Transcarpathia in immediate danger. Ladies and gentlemen, We're interested in war. [[Noise from the opposition benches. Intercoms from Jobbik's benches, among them: Oops! Gergely Harvesto: That's what we saw! The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] We want peace and security. Of course... Meanwhile, Mr President indicated that my time was up, so let me correct: of course, we condemn the war. [[Lajos Korózs: Alas, alas!]] And in peace, we're safe and interested. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Where's the video player?]] Anyone who thinks so, please support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-03-10-1-64	My apologies, Congresswoman, but that's my duty, for a maximum of three minutes, that's what's in front of me. I now give the floor to the rapporteur of the minority opinion drafted in the Legislative Committee, if any. [[No one's reporting.]] No minority opinion, then. [[Gergely Harvesto: Yes, but we'll tell you later.]] Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 10 to 10 minutes, and the independent Members have a total of 2 minutes. In the meantime, two-minute comments should be included in the duration. I'd like to ask you if someone would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[Gergely Arató: Speakers in writing!]] Yes, I say the order of the speakers announced: Barna Pál Zsigmond, Bertalan Tóth, István Simicskó, Gergely Arató, Timea Szabó, Dóra Dúró, Lőrinc Nacsa. First, I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Sigismund, Fidesz.
u2022-03-10-1-65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Fidesz Group supports the adoption of the political declaration. Indeed, we are facing an unprecedented situation, as war broke out in our neighbourhood when the Russian forces attacked Ukraine and caused a great deal of death in these battles, and many refugees came from Ukraine, and hundreds of thousands of people went through our country to the West, and tens of thousands of people in our country. We have to face this security challenge in a single way, and that is why this political declaration is also important, where we lay down the principles on which we are dealing with this crisis. Fidesz condemns Russia's military intervention and stands for Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity, in line with the statements and items made in the declaration. In our view, war cannot be a solution to a conflict, and we also urge the cessation of acts of war, the rapid establishment of peace. The conflict must be avoided from spreading to other areas, its consequences would be insurmountable, and Hungary, as a member of NATO, will act in accordance with the alliance's statements of responsibility. As a member of the United Nations, the OSCE, the Council of Europe and the Union, Hungary will do everything in its own power, through diplomatic channels, to establish peace as soon as possible. Our basic goal is to protect the security of Hungarian people, and we say that we must stay out of this war, not let them bring us into it, so we do not send soldiers to the Ukrainian military scene, and we do not carry weapons on a bilateral basis, and we do not contribute to the transport of weapons capable of killing life through the Hungarian-Ukrainian border. An information war is also taking place, so it is very important for everyone to express their responsibilities, whether they are representatives of the press or political statements. [[14.20]] The campaign must leave out the Hungarians of Transcarpathia, and the subject of the Ukrainian war must be left out. We stand by the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian nation, and stand by the Transcarpathian Hungarians. With special respect, I would also like to welcome President László Brenzovics, President of KMSK. All Transcarpathian Hungarians can feel that Hungary is behind it, and there is indeed an unprecedented national cooperation, both politically and humanitarianly, alongside Transcarpathian Hungarians. With the initiative of Fidesz for the Transcarpathia of the Bridge, Fidesz supports it, and this is also a cooperation in the Carpathian Basin, because from Subotica to Miercurea Ciuc, many people rushed to help the Ukrainian people, the Hungarians of Transcarpathia, the Ukrainian people; this is an unprecedented national unity that has evolved. So we stand by the Transcarpathian Hungarians, we stand by our interest in good neighbourly relations, we must restore good neighbourly relations between Ukraine and Hungary, the relations that existed for tens of years after 1990, and indeed, even if we have had problems with Ukraine, we can put them aside now, and everyone is focused on peace and support Ukraine's European Union relations, and, in line with other Central European countries, we encourage the formal opening of the accession process. Indeed, when unity was needed, we saw that the left would break this unity, and we thought for a long time that the performance that had been best achieved by their Prime Minister's candidate, the muffled speech that we had seen, could not be undermined. I mean, they've insulted everyone, so let's just remember, pensioners, old people, rurals, ladies, townspeople, foreigners, pro-government voters, even mushrooms, and, according to their own statement, they've even joined forces with communists and fascists. We thought there was nothing down there. But there is, because the left has proven that even this shameful performance can be undermined. What the Left has been doing since the terrible and unfortunate war in our neighbourhood, and especially the Prime Minister's candidate, there is simply no word for it. The way they talk and what they say, it's about being completely irresponsible and not understanding the situation. They cannot understand that in such a dangerous situation, the word spoken has much more weight than in peacetime, and, as the well-known poem says, the word can be a dangerous weapon. The Hungarian soldier and Hungarian weapons would be sent to the front by the Hungarian Left Prime Minister's candidate, but if this does not work, because no responsible government and sanely thinking Hungarian people can seriously think so, then they will question the government because they are willing to release weapons across the Hungarian-Ukrainian border. They do not even remember the danger they would pose to the people, Hungarians and Ukrainians who live in Transcarpathia, including the Hungarians who have also been called Russian-friendly in an irresponsible and lying way. There is peace in Transcarpathia for now, and it is in the interest of every responsible Hungarian person to keep it that way. In these difficult days, Péter Márki-Zay managed to kick another one into Transcarpathian Hungarians, those who fled from the horror of war to Hungary. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Shame!]] His speech, in which he accused these people of making it easier for them to vote, bears witness to the perfect disregard for compassion and Christian love against those who are so much spoken of as fallen. It is clear from this that to him the constant mention and reference of religion and Christianity is nothing more than politically motivated Pharisee conduct. There is at least as much confusion as the left on the issue of energy security in the country. Unprofessional, silly, false claims that Hungary should no longer buy hydrocarbons or energy sources from Russia, because it can replace the need that has fallen out from somewhere else. They're talking like it's gonna stop the war. On the other hand, the truth is that the war does not depend on this, and if the gas tap was shut off, the consequences would be unpredictable not only in terms of residential heating but also in terms of the functioning of the Hungarian economy. In addition to paying multiples of current gas prices, there would not be enough gas, because Europe's dependence on Russian gas is extremely high, which cannot be replaced in the short term, and in this case the short-term could mean five to ten years. The EU's annual use of natural gas is about 500 billion cubic metres, 80% of which is imported from Russia. In Hungary, 85 percent of the gas consumed is imported from Russia and 85 percent of households are heated with gas. Fuel is made from oil, 64 percent of which comes from Russia. A person who talks about how this addiction can be replaced by another energy by the end of this year doesn't know what he's talking about, has nothing to do with reality. However, in Brussels there are such wild thoughts, which the Hungarian left, like the mouthpiece, continues to express at home. While European politicians such as German Chancellor Olaf Scholz openly stated that in the short term there is no alternative to Russian gas, while the left-wing energy politician, Mr Kocsis-Cake, proposes that the Hungarians shut down the gas tap. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Shame!]] You can't believe it because you see they don't know what they're talking about. And they want to govern! They also demand that Hungary stop the investment in Paks, but they do not expect the damage to the country and the cost of the rent to go up in the sky. The left is a threat to Hungary's security, economy and the livelihood of families. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Shame!]] On 3 April, we will also decide on these issues, the stakes are huge, we will preserve Hungary's peace and security! Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-03-10-1-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr Bertalan Tóth, MSZP.
u2022-03-10-1-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will probably disappoint my fellow Member and State Secretary Zsolt Németh, because there may be consensus on the declaration today, but certainly not on the way to war. For shame and shame, fellow Members, shame and shame, that the war has come to its third week, Putin's tanks are trampling on the streets of a sovereign country; for the third week Putin's soldiers are destroying soldiers and civilians of a sovereign people; schools, obstetrics, housings are being bombed and shot; millions are forced to leave their homes because of the war of a mad dictator; and after two weeks, Fidesz has come to present a political statement on a spot to the committee and then to the parliament. Shame and shame! Two weeks ago, we initiated the Parliament to meet and adopt a declaration that stands up for the European Union and NATO and for Ukraine, but you have made this proposal for discussion tonight at 8:00. Probably Fidesz did this for a reason, Orbán got that order from Putin. [[Noise, interruptions, clearness in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] After two weeks, we got to the point where we could talk about such a statement. My fellow Members, I would like to make it clear that this charade is completely transparent. Even if you try to play the good boy, with the geopolitical movement of the last 12 years, this war has been facilitated by Viktor Orbán. They are talking about peace now, while Orbán has been at war with everyone for 12 years, beating the European Union, NATO, while defending Putin's interests. He still wants to do business with a war aggressor, Paks II. Putin's troops are bombing a nuclear power plant. A few days ago, the Prime Minister said that only NATO would protect us. Then he said he was wrong, who said NATO would protect us, and now NATO is protecting us again. Lies, bullshit, hypocrisy, despicableness, that's what Orbán knows. We must say that Viktor Orbán has a specific responsibility for the fact that the current situation has come to this point. Orbán prevented Ukraine from joining the NATO Cyber Defence Excellence Centre last December, thereby weakening the defence capacity of our eastern neighbour. In 2014, the EU banned Member States from participating in Russian arms transport, but in 2019 Orbán allowed Russian weapons to be transferred over the Hungarian airspace and said yes to the Russians. Orbán was also the one who wanted to destroy and weaken the European Union by establishing an extreme right-wing group, and the bank of his stróman, for the sake of clarity: I am talking about Lőrinc MKB Mészáros directly took over the financing of Le Pen from Putin. Two months ago, Péter Szijjártó received a medal for Friendship from the country that is now bombing the homes of civilians. Orbán visited Putin even a month ago, whose drawer was probably ready for the plans of the current war. Did you inform Putin Orbán about the war? [[Uproar, interruptions from the pro-government ranks, including Lőrinc Nacsa: Shame on you!]] If he did, and he didn't do anything, just lay low and babbling about peace, it's outrageous and sneaky. And if you didn't inform me, why did you go there? ! And then put Hungary on a bench of shame? The fact is that Hungary will never be safe under Orbán's leadership. Today Hungary has a prime minister who betrayed his allies and helped Putin expand step by step. [[14.30]] Putin's runaway puppies were indeed the most credible one to talk about, knowing his associates closely. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Toto dog...]] Ladies and gentlemen, The effects of the war have reached us as well. Whatever Viktor Orbán claims, the war has led to a humanitarian crisis. Millions of families are fleeing and trying to leave Ukraine; forints are weakening; energy prices are rising; inflation is accelerating; wages and pensions are being reduced. So when you say that we will not pay the cost of the war, I have to say that the Hungarian people are already paying. It is important to know that this is due to Viktor Orbán's greatest ally, the man for whom he made a decade-long debt on behalf of our children when he concluded a ten billion euro loan agreement with Putin Paks II. to build it; to whom he deprived the Hungarian people of their ability to decide whether they wanted to be indebted to Russia or not; to whom Orbán deprived the Hungarian people of their ability to decide whether to develop Hungary following the development directions of Western Europe in the next hundred years, Orbán said so, or as a half-asian people, we should be vassals of Russia. Orbán, however, wanted to please Putin, the man who just set Ukraine on fire. Based on the activities of the Orbán government, one of the Russian news portals wrote that if Russia has a real European sister, it is actually Hungary. All that is happening now in Ukraine is the complete failure of Viktor Orbán's foreign policy. Turns out rocking politics can't have any effect in history as many times as it has. Let's be clear: Orbán started building a Putin system in Hungary. And propaganda is now spreading pro-Kremlin slop. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Ladies and gentlemen, War causes anxiety, anxiety, and fear in all people. They are restless because they see that not so far away from them, a mad dictator next door with weapons and soldiers hit the homes of peaceful people in another country, kicked their lives. They're afraid because they don't want this to happen to us, so that the war doesn't spread, so they don't lose their homes, so they don't get drafted as soldiers. They are anxious because for 12 years they have been listening to Orbán and Fidesz propaganda that this mad dictator is friends with Orbán; and they are afraid because Orbán has helped this mad dictator expand with businesses or diplomatic means, and Hungary's delivery to Putin, against the economic and security interests of Hungary and its allies. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Shame on you!]] They feel precisely, from the point of view of our security, that Orbán sought the favor of Putin for 12 years, and even according to the latest reports, Hungary is now a de facto unfriendly country. They are also afraid that war could lead to a livelihood crisis, losing their jobs, losing their livelihoods. In vain, they received a raise if they left it in the shops because of the increase, if there are queues at the gas stations, if there is a euro of 400 forints. This situation also needs a solution, because if Orbán knows what Putin was up to, why didn't he take measures to mitigate the expected effects of the war? Why has the Hungarian Prime Minister not done anything to prevent inflation from being the largest, so that salaries and pensions do not lose their value, the forint does not collapse and Hungary is prepared to wait for the war crisis? Unfortunately, we know the answer. We know because we see that Viktor Orbán is not protecting the interests of the Hungarian people, but is still serving Vladimir Putin. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Shame on you!]] Ladies and gentlemen, We need a change. Today Hungary has a prime minister who betrayed his allies and helped Putin expand step by step. Viktor Orbán has a specific responsibility for the fact that the current situation has come to this point. Only a new government can provide security for the Hungarian people, a new government whose members and leaders are respected, and not treated as traitors by our allies. [[Nacsa Lawrence at the CIA...]] The Fidesz political declaration could be the political declaration of the entire country if we made it clear that we would stop the Paks II investment symbolizing the expansion in Putin and expel the spy bank. We tabled our amendment, and you voted against it. Ladies and gentlemen, On 3 April, the power of freedom will overthrow Fidesz and bring peace and security to Hungary for our common future, Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2022-03-10-1-68	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker, announced in advance, is Mr István Simicskó, Head of the Group, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2022-03-10-1-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Sándor Márai puts it in one of his works that the world is not only bright and dark, but also often confusing. In a troubled time, it is always important to acquire and develop discernment. And let me also quote another classic, former Kossuth Prize winner Béla Hamvas, who says that recognizing the truth, being in the truth and doing it for the truth is a particularly important mission for the people serving the community, including Hungarian politics, but I believe that this is important throughout the world. In a situation like this, when a war broke out in our neighbourhood, which is indeed another step, a new phenomenon is all war, of course, terrible, which shows that our world today has quite specific features, and we often say that the 21st century is the 21st century. Instead of bringing the expected peace, where appropriate, the world peace of beauty competitions, the century brings new challenges, threats, and even wars. In Hungary's recent history of the regime change, we have now experienced the Yugoslav war here in our neighbourhood with its destruction, and now we can see the Russian-Ukrainian military conflict. It is instructive in itself what has led to this. Indeed, once peace comes as soon as we hope, then it will also have to be analysed so that no more such mistakes will be made by the man of today, be it of any nationality, of any religion, but it is certainly a lesson now that the typical human error that we often quote from the Old Testament, the phenomenon of sister wars, Cain and Abel, and it is sad that mankind cannot learn and learn from them, and makes these mistakes again and again, primarily, to start wars with the death of innocent people. It is certainly sad in a double sense, because it is the war of the closest brothers and sisters, and it is also the war of two Christian peoples, while we see that this is a much bigger challenge in the world, because civilizations and civilizations based on different religious grounds are coming together. You can see what kind of spiritual spiritual crisis the Christianity of our European or Western world is in, what signs are there, see the wave of migrations of millions of people in recent years, and this was just warming up; we can see how fundamental transformation processes of this are taking place in our Christian world: the phenomena of our usual habits, our everyday life. So the world is facing huge conflicts and challenges, and now there is another sister war in the ranks of our Eastern Christian world. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Hungary, in this situation, clearly for the sake of clarity, considers only and only the Hungarian interests to be the most important for the sake of orientation, and this can be an adjustment point that determines all our decisions. What can we do in such a situation, in such a sad and terrible war? What we can do is help those in trouble, help people fleeing Ukraine, Ukrainians, Ruthenians, Hungarians, and, of course, deliver various donations and relief supplies to the elderly people, families and others who are left behind and in trouble. I was down at the border the other day. I saw that there was an exemplary cooperation in Hungary, and all the good people moved. Thanks to our mayors, thanks to the people of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, and thanks to the whole country, our charitable organisations and the Hungarian government, because they are doing a great deal to achieve these help. And thank our cooperation partners in Ukraine, because it is really very important that they get to the people in distress in a targeted way and that we can actually help them. And what can we do in our political arena, here, in the Hungarian Parliament, in Parliament? We can indeed declare an important intention, an revelation, and therefore the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party is very much in favour of the political declaration presented by the Committee on Foreign Affairs before us. Indeed, it concerns all important points; what we can do, let us do. Ten points have been summarised by the Committee on Foreign Affairs as to our position. I think it is safe for all Members to agree on this, regardless of party standing; it really brings us closer to a single position. And when we see that war, of course, has a nature, which, based on our historical experience, is characterised by the fact that, indeed, the longer a war goes on, the deeper the wave of violence can sink, so a spiral of violence can develop, it would be advisable to avoid that. [[14.40]] We see that negotiations are taking place between the parties. There was another trial today between the two foreign ministers, Mr Lavrov and Mr Kuleba. For now, news has come that there has not been a big breakthrough, but we hope that they will soon come to an agreement. And the result is that humanitarian corridors have been opened from the larger cities, the enclosed cities, and civil citizens can flee, they can come, and that is why these troubled people need to be helped. I'm sure it's the 21st. Wars of the century are specific, but at some point, at a more relaxed time, it will also be worth analysing what other interests have actually appeared in this war, that this path has even led to this. These interests are likely to reach very, very far. One thing is certain, the Hungarian interest is to ensure peace as soon as possible, and indeed all obstacles to the well-being of both the Ukrainian people and the Hungarians of Transcarpathia are removed. In addition, unfortunately, you can feel from a lot of speeches and statements that irresponsible statements are coming to light. Indeed, Péter Márki-Zay's statements are now difficult to follow, especially during a war period. In a way, I have to say, there are some serious problems with this mess of talk. Hungarian soldiers and weapons must by no means be sent out, and we must prevent this war from escalating, so there is a greater chance of peaceful conditions as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, I would like to conclude by looking at Ukraine's national motto: this is nothing more than the,, volja, zlahoda, dobro, i.e. freedom, agreement and goodness. It would be important for the desire for freedom to be fulfilled, it would be important to have a consensus in Ukraine and here, within the walls of this House, at least on this issue, and indeed to make good decisions and to do good. I ask your support for this, and we ask for your support. The KDNP fraction supports the proposal submitted by the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the political statement, please accept it. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-03-10-1-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Simicskó Group Leader. The following speaker was Mr Gergely Arató, representative of DK. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-03-10-1-71	Dear House, I would like to start with the important things, and the important things are those in which we agree. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Wasn't it before?]] Mr. Group Leader, you and I will be decided by the electorate shortly, and we will see how. The thing is, this House, is to talk about the important things first, and these are the important things that we can agree on. Because we can agree to condemn Russian aggression, we can agree that we want the killing to end in Ukraine as soon as possible, and there would be peace. We agree that Hungary should act together in consultation with NATO and the European Union. We agree that we must prevent this war from spreading to Hungary and spreading to NATO. We agree on that. And it is also very important that we agree that we must protect the Hungarian community in Ukraine, provide it with the support that really improves its situation, and that it is our moral duty to help those refugees who come to Hungary and hope for security in Hungary. We also agree that what Hungarian society shows in solidarity today is moving and important is that civil society organisations move, ordinary people move, local governments move. It is good to see that we have the right-wing government in Kispest and the right-wing government in Kőbány, both unanimously, in cooperation, without political voices and campaigning, together with a consensus to support refugees from Ukraine. We will therefore support this proposal, because although we believe it is little and not enough, at least what we agree on, we will say it and make it clear, because it is in the national interest. At the same time, I cannot go without saying that there is a moral responsibility in this situation, and that is the moral responsibility of Viktor Orbán and Fidesz. I spoke before the agenda this morning, and I don't want to repeat my arguments, the facts. I can say that I agree with Mr Bertalan Tóth when he draws attention to the fact that, in the current situation, there are factors in which Hungary, or rather, I say so, because you like to believe in Hungary, but the current Hungarian government is, in fact, responsible and guilty. And I must say that it is also disturbing, as you are using this issue for political purposes. The way this proposal came before Parliament is disturbing. After all, Mr Group leader, the opposition proposed not now, two weeks ago, that, in accordance with parliamentary custom, democratic customs, there should be a parliamentary debate where the Prime Minister comes, the Minister of Foreign Affairs comes, the Minister of Defence, if appropriate, tells us what the situation is, all political forces can express their position, and otherwise we have presented a proposal for a resolution. You could have called this meeting at a normal time, you could have come to this meeting. Instead, they did not do this, they called this meeting at 8 p.m., and otherwise they do not wish to participate in it in a clearly visible way, because it cannot come from the Fidesz, it cannot be that something does not come from you, and, of course, clearly, with this debate, they want to limit the importance and possibility of this dialogue and debate with both time and political constraints here. He didn't think it was important, once again, either the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs or the Minister of Defence to speak to the country here in front of the public of Parliament, and of course they didn't consider it important to respond and argue with them on these issues. And it was indeed odd that the procedure did not dispute the good intentions of President-in-Office of the Commission that this proposal had come before the Committee on Foreign Affairs only to be met on the spot by Members at an unexpectedly convened meeting when they could not have had the opportunity to debate it in substance. Neither did Mr President, nor did the Fidesz faction or the KDNP fraction seek the opportunity to form a preliminary political consensus, but, as usual, they put Parliament, the opposition part of Parliament, eat, eat, receive nothing else. And I have to say that we are going to get past this, because the fate of Hungarian people and Hungary is more important than party flashes, but that doesn't mean that we didn't notice it and we don't have an opinion about it. Just as it is wonderful, the two-faced thing with which Zsolt Németh's mouth tells the Fidesz not to make a campaign out of this campaign, because this is more important, then with the mouth of Mónika Dunai and Zsigmond Pál Zsolt... [[Interviews from Fidesz: Zsigmond Barna Pál.]] I'm sorry. Pál Barna Zsigmond... excuse me, Congressman. Sigismund Brown? [[Defiance.]] My apologies, Congressman, I'm sorry, my name memory is extremely bad. Excuse me, Congressman. We've known each other for a while. I apologize. So, with Congressman's mouth, obviously misinterpreting, he's lying about campaigning and trying to push responsibility to the left. How's that, Congressman? [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] I have no doubt about Congressman Nacha's abilities in this area. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] How is that, Congressman, how do you think that? Do you need a national unit or do you not need a national unit? Is this a campaign thing or not a campaign thing? I'd like to tell you, it's not a campaign issue for us. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: Ah, no! Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] Therefore, while we do not conceal the truth, we can say that we will support this resolution proposal, we will accept it. Let me just say a few more words about the two amendments that we tabled. We initiated two things: we wanted to allow you to make up for two mistakes in the last 12 years, so that at least now, when you see what Russian addiction means, you will accept that Paks II. in the form in which you have planned, within the framework of a contract of Russian interest only, in cooperation with my Rosázat will not be able to be built, it is quite obvious. [[14.50]] And you can stall, you can say that this is not yet timely, you can say that there is an international treaty and a lot of the like here, and this does not change the point: it cannot be implemented in Russian cooperation in Europe, it will not be allowed by EU rules, and I add that it is irresponsible. But I am sure that there will be fellow Members who will talk about this in more detail and with more expertise than I do. The situation with the Russian spy bank is similar. We have said that this bank has no place in Budapest, we have said it before, but at least now, when practically everyone has quit this investment bank, except the Hungarian government, we should admit that it is not going to work, this institution serving Russian influence will not be able to operate any longer, and Hungary has no place in this. We have offered them the opportunity to correct their mistakes, but I see that they are not willing to do so, and in the committee vote it has also turned out that they will continue to stand by their previous position. Finally, I have one more thing to say. While we are looking for consensus here, while we want to stay out of the war, while we support the position of NATO and the EU that wants to keep the war away from the EU and NATO, while, of course, wanting peace, our sympathy and sympathy belong to those who are being bombed, shot and killed; our sympathy and sympathy belong to those who are being bombed and killed. I would like to say openly: our sympathy in this situation is Ukraine's. Slava Ukrainei!
u2022-03-10-1-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next pre-notified speaker was Mrs Szabó Timea, representative of the Dialogue. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2022-03-10-1-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. With regard to the proposal before us, I can only join Gergely Arató: of course, what is in this is eligible. There's just one very big problem with all of this. The title is already wrong: it is not a Russian-Ukrainian war, it is Russia's war against Ukraine. The problem is that you are now playing the great peace-loving Fidest, while for 12 years you have been exclusively at war with all social groups. Orbán's entire rhetoric is based on the fight, the war, he called himself a street fighter, a freedom fighter. We've even heard of a schnapps freedom fight here in the last 12 years! [[János Pócs: And Márki-Zay?]] A war was waged against a 90-year-old George Soros, not laughing at the end; a war was waged against Brussels with giant posters; a war was waged against homeless people; a war was waged against the disabled when they took away their tramps; and now they are at war against gays, dressed in a robe as if gays were pedophiles. By the way, I'd like to ask you to stand up and condemn that ex-VII. District Fidesz Congressman, László Timár Fidesz. Who turned out today to have sex with a 13-year-old girl at an anvil school? Fidesz, an ex-Erzsébetváros representative, turned out to have committed the most violent pedophile crime. Now, that's what you're fighting against, not your enemies. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: He will receive a strict punishment that you have not voted for!]] And, you see, that's the problem with this whole proposal before us and their perverseness, that no word of it is true, and they don't mean what they've written. I see István Simicskó nodding, that unfortunately he was a fidesz congressman, indeed. [[Dr. István Simicskó: No! Let's focus on the subject. The statement that's in front of us.]] Returning to the proposal that has been tabled, your pro-peaceism is, unfortunately, a lie. The pro-peaceist who openly stands up for the European Union and NATO. Who travels to Moscow in secret in January 2014 and secretly, without asking people, makes a Russian loan of HUF 4000 billion for 30 years with Vladimir Putin, without consulting people in everything else, but not when they are indebted to Putin for 30 years, that's not pro-peace, that's not European love, that's not NATO engagement, that's unfortunately another fidesz and Viktor Orbán lie. Orbán said that we do not want to be the happiest barracks of the Gazprom, while he has done nothing in the last 12 years but to make Hungary the happiest barracks of the Rosatom. And in the meantime, the strategic sneaking about where you stand, the Kállai double, the swing politics. They are trying to sell this now as if you are on Europe's side, but everyone knows precisely that Viktor Orbán was the last person in the European Union to give in to the joint imposition of sanctions against Russia. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] It took the Polish Prime Minister to put pressure on Viktor Orbán to finally agree with the European Union. (Lőrinc Nacsa: It's not true!) It's not pro-peace, it's not pro-European, it's pro-Putin, it's pro-Russia! Viktor Orbán navigated Hungary into the arms of Putin and Russia. We see what is going on in Russia; we see how you are fighting the war. You are trying to fight the war by still bashing today, by left-winging even here, within these walls, as if at least the left could be responsible for your bosom friend Vladimir Putin starting a war against independent Ukraine; he started a war where civilians were bombed, where yesterday an obstetrics, a gynecology was bombed, and pregnant women had to be rescued on a stretcher, where a six-year-old boy died during the bombing, and thousands of civilians and now soldiers have lost their lives. And you're still talking, in the spirit of the great pro-peace community, about the fact that the opposition wants to send soldiers to Ukraine. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's what you said!]] That's a lie! We didn't say that! And you're hiding behind the great pro-peace, trying to stop the war by talking nonsense. That's what's not acceptable. What is not acceptable in this proposal is the way you behave. But Viktor Orbán made it very clear years ago: we are not watching what he says, but what he is doing. Well, that's the problem. Unfortunately, we see what he's doing. A man who's pro-peace doesn't lie. The pro-peaceist doesn't lie about the opposition and doesn't lie about Paks II. You are also talking about NATO engagement, Paks II. Péter Szijjártó stands up, who, by the way, also obviously accepts Putin's medal for Russian Friendship in the spirit of pro-peace, and has not returned it! While you condemn Russia in this proposal. [[He's showing me a document.]] I would like to ask you, if you condemn Russia, why doesn't Péter Szijjártó return a medal for Russian Friendship? So how's that? Is this one and that one? The Kállai double? The swing policy? You're not gonna fool anyone with this. We know what you're doing. You know exactly what you're doing. Paks II has nothing to do with the current gas supply. That's the other thing you're lying about. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It produces electricity!]] Paks II hasn't been cut yet, yet you're lying that the current gas supply has something to do with Paks II. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Power!]] [[Nacsa Lawrence: Power!]] And if I cancel my contract with Rosata, there won't be any heat this year. (Nacsa Lőrinc: Electricity!) Even ten years from now, Paks II won't be built, let alone now. I would like to ask Mr. Sigismund Brown Paul [[Dr. Zsigmond Barna Pál: I am honored!]] Fidesz, who said that if we canceled the contract with Roszat, which your Fidesz MEPs voted for in Brussels, I would just like to say to the public once again how you know that any sanctions will be imposed. Because we don't know. You know why we don't know? Because you've encrypted the Paks II contract. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Power!]] [[Nacsa Lawrence: Power!]] I'd like to ask you how you know what's in this contract. How do you know that if we cancel the Paks II contract, there will be any sanctions? (Nacsa Lőrinc: Electricity!) He's not gonna have any sanctions. [[Dr. Zsigmond Barna Pál: How do you know it won't happen?]] Because we are protected by the European Community and NATO membership, and for illegal, illegal contracts, the new government will not abide by it. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, it would be very good to come clean now. Enough with the lying, enough with the fake pro-peace, enough with the constant support of Putin and Russia. [[15.00]] You have navigated Hungary into Putin's arms, led by Viktor Orbán, so that only a new government can lead it back to Europe after the change of government. It is no coincidence that the European Union is withholding HUF 16 000 billion from Hungary because of you, because of your theft and misdemeanor, because you refuse to comply with the rule of law. After the change of government and April 3rd, that's the bet. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Campaign theme? It's not a campaign thing, is it?]] We end lying, stealing, leading Hungary into Putin's arms, ending the Russian colonialization of Hungary, and finally showing that Hungary belongs to Europe. [[And the CIA.]] The opposition led by Péter Márki-Zay belongs to Europe, it brings prosperity and livelihoods in Hungary by receiving and distributing EU funds, and we will certainly navigate Hungary out of Russia's deadly embrace. Is this what 3 April is about: Russia-Putin-Orbán or freedom and Europe? There's a choice. Thank you very much. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: But it's not a campaign issue, is it? Applause from the opposition.]]
u2022-03-10-1-74	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to the speaker announced in advance: Mrs Dóra Dúró.
u2022-03-10-1-75	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, According to the Hungarian Movement, Hungary's peace, security and future in the broadest possible sense is the most important aspect for us in this war conflict, and it must also determine the decisions of the government. I would like to express our thanks to everyone involved in humanitarian aid, and the Hungarian Movement has also tried to contribute to this. On the other hand, I must point out that not only is this war happening next door to us, but also in the territory of a country whose citizens are our Hungarian national brothers, for whom we have a special responsibility. According to our country's movement, there are two cases in which government policy is seriously flawed, which I would like to point out. On 10 February, we heard from Minister of Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó, who announced that there could be no American NATO soldiers in Hungary, and on 7 March Mr Orbán already signed a regulation that would allow this to happen. We think that was a huge mistake. On the other hand, it is also a mistake for the government to take the sanctions from Brussels without any criticism that harm Hungarian people as well. The embargoes applied to Russia have already caused huge damage to Hungarian agriculture and economy, and the additional sanctions make it even more difficult for Hungarian families to make a living, damaging every Hungarian family by about HUF 200,000. According to the Hungarian Movement, therefore, only Hungary's neutrality, independence and security could be the aspect on which the government makes its decisions. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-03-10-1-76	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró. The next announced speaker was Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, Member of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2022-03-10-1-77	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Gergely Arató started by saying that this is not a campaign topic, then Szabó Timea talked about April 3rd and the praise of Péter Márki-Zay, while he thought that if the Paks Nuclear Power Plant was shut down, there would be no gas production in Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Paks Nuclear Power Plant produces electricity for Hungary, and your proposal, which would have been included in this policy statement, included the need to terminate any cooperation with Roszat, which would not only stop Paks II, but also the current Paks Nuclear Power Plant, because there would be no fuel in the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, so that each family would have four times its electricity bill. This is your policy, ladies and gentlemen on the left, that is what you want to achieve, and that is why we have not supported the inclusion of this point in the Foreign Affairs Committee or in the political declaration. Ladies and gentlemen, The institution of dual citizenship saved the lives and safety of tens of thousands of Hungarians at the moment. This is the dual citizenship that the Ferenc Gyurcsánys did not support, and they have been campaigning ever since to abolish dual citizenship. We can now ask ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, that in such a difficult situation, when the left is pouring oil on the fire every day, when the left is sharpening the situation with his irresponsible statements every day, then let us say that we want a Vadai Agnes as Minister of Defence? We'd like a Márki-Zay Péter to be Prime Minister, who couldn't tell us that his own program launch starts at 4:00, 5:00, 6:00, 7:00 or 8:00? We would like the country to be led in this difficult situation by people who do not know what time their own programme presentation starts, my fellow Members? The thing is, if we look at your statements, when they send soldiers to Ukraine, when they send weapons to Ukraine, when they call the Hungarian community in Transcarpathia a Russian friend, and when they would quit Paks II. Then you will do nothing but endanger the lives and safety of the Hungarian people and make the Hungarian people pay the price of the war. I think it's a huge political irresponsible thing, a huge mistake, and I'm asking you guys to stop cheering up, stop campaigning with the war, you're gonna have to join forces, you're gonna help me. Szabó Timea should not bring bread to the Chamber, but to the Ukrainian border, because there is a need for it! This is not the place to create political hysteria, and this is not the place to build political capital from creating hysteria, it is the place to go and help, because that is what we are all doing here. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-03-10-1-78	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Congressman Róbert Dudás, Jobbik.
u2022-03-10-1-79	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I think that, two weeks after the war situation in our neighbourhood, it was timely not only in terms of communication but also in a declaral way to present a statement to Parliament and to accept it. I very much hope that there will be a complete consensus on this issue, and I would like to say, in a prerogative, that the Jobbik Group will support this political statement. And why are you going to support him? He will support it because from the beginning we say that we must do everything we can to work for peace. Avoid war, work for peace, help everyone, our cross-border national brothers and everyone else who is forced to leave their country and home because of war, help them, protect our borders, and do whatever it takes to avoid war in Hungary. This is extremely important, perhaps the most important item in this political statement as well. Several points of this statement have been mentioned by my fellow Members, let me also mention a few: we condemn Russia's military intervention and stand for Ukraine's sovereignty and integrity; I think this is an extremely important sentence. As is the fact that our country must stay out of the war, and we cannot allow anyone to go to war with Hungary. We have been saying this since the beginning, and we are happy to support the fact that this political declaration also contains this in a declaral way. As well as the fact that Hungary will not send soldiers or any weapons, no weapons, especially any that can kill life. So this is also very important. But what has not yet been said, we have heard a number of comments here within the walls of this House, but what has not yet been said is that, in addition to the war situation, the honourable Parliament should treat the atmosphere of war and the mood. Unfortunately, in paragraph 7, it is just as if I have heard that this 7th point has been forgotten mainly from the pro-government side, and I recommend to all of you that we draw the attention, among other things, to the public figures as well as to the press staff, to refrain from any rash or political ulterior statement that could endanger the life and safety of the country and its inhabitants. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Movement for Jobbik Hungary supports this political declaration and I would like to say that we are convinced that Hungary's place is in Europe, the direction of the future is Europe, and we represent it, as we represent peace instead of war. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]] [[15.10]]
u2022-03-10-1-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is László Keresztes, leader of the Lóránt Group, LMP.
u2022-03-10-1-81	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I would also like to make it clear at the beginning of my speech that the parliamentary group of the LMP will vote in favour of this proposal, because it is very important that we clearly and clearly condemn the aggression that your close political ally and business partner Vladimir Putin has launched against an independent country. Your close political friend, ally Vladimir Putin disregards international law, ignoring the sovereignty of an independent country, has waged a war against Ukraine, not only attacking military targets, but firing missiles and artillery on civilian buildings, civilians and civilians, I repeat, on the orders of your close political ally. But we have also seen in recent days, which is a rather shocking development, that the Russian troops have launched a military attack on the largest nuclear power plant in Europe. We can also see that Russian aggression has stopped powering the Chernobyl nuclear power plant, which again poses a very serious nuclear accident risk. It was also apparent that missile and artillery attacks had been launched on several occasions against radioactive waste storage facilities. So this statement must be made clear: we must condemn this series of ignominious acts, which, by the way, were committed at Vladimir Putin's command. It is also very important to express thanks to all those who, in their own way, have helped people fleeing from the horrors of war to Hungary, and to mention the many, many Hungarian people, civilians, who have tried to help refugees with financial support to their potential, or who have been able to act actively in order to gain protection from those who have been victims of Putin's aggression. At the same time, I cannot go past the politics seen 12 years ago, where you have ignored Hungarian national interests with countless decisions and numerous revelations, and indeed served the great powers of Russia. Here, my fellow Members have also told me how, based on lies, they have given the Paks expansion project to the Russians, who have already proved inadequate to produce nuclear power plant authorisation documentation according to European and Hungarian standards. I would like to ask you questions, Mr Secretary of State or fellow Members, that in a situation where Russian soldiers attack nuclear power plants with artillery when the Russians attack nuclear installations, you still feel that Russia must be tied to the future of Hungary's energy policy even more than the current situation. So in this situation, do you want to deliver Hungary even more to Russia in terms of energy policy? Is Russia, at the command of its dictator, still a reliable partner for the construction of a new nuclear power plant? Would you continue to stand by and watch with the largest city in Transdanubia building a nuclear cemetery following your presentation, when you can see that in a war conflict these nuclear objects become targets almost immediately? And you want to continue to stand by and watch the process of allowing a new uranium mine in Hungary in stealth form, which could end up with the fact that when mining rights are born, the mining sites are born, where appropriate, this mining right can also be purchased by the Russians, because you have not excluded it, and in this way you can use the uranium wealth of Hungary for military purposes? Are you idly watching this situation? Or do you agree with our proposal that we need immediate legal guarantees that it will never be possible for the Hungarian uranium wealth to fall under Russian jurisdiction? These questions are for you to answer. And we can clearly see that, despite the horrors and vicious acts of war in our neighbourhood, Hungary's Prime Minister did not consider it important to appear before the Parliament meeting and to speak here as a responsible Prime Minister in front of the Parliament on these issues. But he also did not consider it important for his friend, Minister Péter Szijjártó, to appear and provide direct information and to be personally separated from the regime from which he took the Medal for Friendship from Sergey Lavrov two months ago. This also shows the despicableness of your rocking policy. I expect you, ladies and gentlemen, to be as clear and clear as your Members of the European Parliament have, by the way. We have put forward a translation of the amendments supported by your MEPs as an amendment to the Legislative Committee, which Fidesz MEPs very rightly voted for. It is your deceitful swing policy to vote in the European Parliament on something that is being bullied in the Hungarian Parliament. We have tabled the amendments voted by your Members of the European Parliament. And if you do not believe us for many years, we are talking about the dangers of linking the security and energy supply of Hungary and the Hungarian people to this extent, I quote to you Professor Attila Aszodi, your former Secretary of State and his government commissioner, last Friday's entry, in which Professor Aszodi reminded us that the General Assembly of the United Nations International Atomic Energy Agency adopted a resolution in 2009, which states that the armed attack and threat against nuclear installations for peaceful purposes is a violation of the principles of the United Nations Statute, international law and the Statute of the International Atomic Energy Agency. This has been said by your close associate, former government commissioner for Paks II. And Professor Aszodi asks how Russia intends to carry out nuclear power projects in any country in the future if it does not respect the current core international conventions. And I will continue to quote Attila Aszódi: how do you think that the population of any country will accept a Russian-built nuclear power plant project in the future? This has been said by your close colleague, Professor Aszodi, who is obviously committed to the use of nuclear energy and is obviously committed to your political family. Professor Aszodi dared to say the truth, and you are sneaking and want to carry on the gigantic project that would indebte Hungary to Vladimir Putin Russia with a huge Russian loan that, according to Russian technology and Russian fuel, would put Hungary in an even more vulnerable position in the current situation. Now, this is the shameful swing policy that you will have to face in the short term, my fellow Members, and in the longer term, you will have to answer before the judgment seat of history for the shameful and traitorous policy that we have seen here for 12 years. I repeat, the LMP faction has a clear position: we condemn the aggression of Putin, condemn the war, we are on the side of peace, and we will accept this resolution proposal. Thank you very much.
u2022-03-10-1-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Fidesz has one minute and 50 seconds left. That's what Congressman Pál Sigmond signed up for.
u2022-03-10-1-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Since Szabó Timea personally attacked me, let me answer him. I am pleased to hear that the Left adopts the resolution, and therefore strongly rejects and condemns the insufferable ratings that some of the Transcarpathian Hungarians value. Please call on Péter Márki-Zay to apologize to the Hungarians in Transcarpathia for calling them Russian friends and putting our fellow nations in immediate danger. When they keep talking about Putin friendship, let me recall that in November 2009 Ferenc Gyurcsány, leader of the left, who was no longer prime minister, invited President Putin to a friendly family dinner at a Ukrainian restaurant. What a story this is! Then, in 2006-2007, there were three meetings between Putin and Gyurcsány, private meetings, and as a result Ferenc Gyurcsány played MOL into the hands of the Russians and allowed the KGB into Hungarian intelligence. But we also saw pictures of them dancing together at the Finno-Ugric meeting. And then we saw Toto's dog lick Putin's leg. So much for that, and let's remember these pictures. Hungary has conducted a sovereign foreign policy along the lines of Hungarian interests over the last 12 years and has pursued pragmatic relations with all countries, including Russia, for the interests of Hungary. And if the left were to lead the country, tens of thousands of Hungarian countrymen would now be in grave danger, because without a Hungarian passport they would not have been able to cross the closed Ukrainian border. And if it were up to the left, we would have delivered weapons, and Hungary would have drifted into the war, and if it were on the left, there would be no gas for the Hungarian people today, and we would have paid the highest rent in the world, as opposed to the lowest overhead costs in Hungary today. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-03-10-1-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. The LMP has two minutes and 41 seconds left. Congressman Péter Ungár has spoken.
u2022-03-10-1-85	Thank you very much. What I would like to say in this debate is that you know very well that in the last four weeks you have suffered from the syndrome that the Polish governing party has called "Putin vertanden syndrome" . So in your media, in public television, different Fidesz tellers have done nothing but find different excuses for why what's going on is okay. The United States of America, Syria. [[15.20]] They got to the point that a fidesz propaganda site was a Russian disinformation video where Russian actors dressed up as Ukrainian soldiers and told them how well the Ukrainian prisoners of war were treated by the Russians, and that the medium you paid for it published them as a statement of fact. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] And then he refused to apologize. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] That's because for the past 12 years, you've been in that part of "Putini Propaganda" [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] that the West is declining and that Russia will protect Christian civilization from the declining West, which you have accepted. [[Nacsa Lárinc: Oops! Let's do it again.]] You're talking about the decline of the West. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Again!]] And you have passed a homophobic law, which Vladimir Putin had his own parliament adopt very similar, and you are copying this power in a lot of ways, and now you are extremely uncomfortable with the fact that world politics requires them to be judged orally. But we all know that because of the last 12 years, you have actually lost your last ally, the Polish governing party, I quote from a Polish weekly on the right, which I have never agreed with in my life, saying that you stabbed Poland in the back with a rusty knife. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] The fact is that in Russian public television they show how they're going to make the way to Kaliningrad on the ground, in Russian public TV they said that 1956 was a colorful revolution, and they said that the Eastern Central European region received more from the Soviets than they gave. Welcome to your new allies. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition. Dr. István Simicskó: Don't watch so much TV. Intercoms from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-03-10-1-86	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group.
u2022-03-10-1-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I know this is a difficult subject. [[Dr. László Keresztes Lóránt: No time! Zoltán Balczó: Mr President, you don't have time!]] But Congressman Korózs had just introduced me with his middle finger after I reminded him of his work as a cameraman. [[Zoltán Balczó: Time is up!]] I would like to ask that in the minutes... I have asked for the floor in order, honourable Member. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] I'd like to ask you to put in the record [[Gergely Arató: What is the point of order?!]] that Congressman Korózs thus expresses his liking [[A statement from the opposition.]] to his other fellow Members: with his middle finger. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-03-10-1-88	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Because Congressman Nacsa has asked for the floor in order of business [[Zoltán Balczó: What is the proposal? What's the point of order?]] Therefore, Mr László Keresztes has asked for the floor in order of business. I give you the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. My suggestion is that a pro-government representative should not be able to make aggressive, inspiring propaganda in a point of order. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] and my point of order is that the government propaganda with stolen money, which my fellow Member spoke about, should be stopped. [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi intervenes.]] Stop it in public media and stop it in social media if you're serious about the gravity of this war situation for one minute. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Order of business?!]] My point of order is, if you're talking about this not being a campaign issue, then don't use it as a campaign theme and stop with the stolen money...
u2022-03-10-1-90	Congressman...
u2022-03-10-1-91	... vile, lying government propaganda. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: That's right!]] Thank you very much.
u2022-03-10-1-92	I will conclude the debate here and ask if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The consolidated debate is closed. I will ask President Zsolt Németh to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Mr. President.
u2022-03-10-1-93	Mr President, Dear House, It was a debate when we agreed. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] So we were discussing a political statement when everyone declared that they would vote and agree. Imagine what would have happened if we had not agreed on this political statement, then what kind of debate would we have had? But this should not obscure the joy of finally agreeing on an important foreign policy issue. It is not certain that this joint political declaration will change the Hungarian internal political debates, the narratives that we have repeated here, but believe me that it is important that we have taken a step today, in a war situation, towards a consensus on foreign policy. It is difficult for us to get out of the way in which we are used to arguing with each other, but believe me, we will need to get out of it, and Vladimir Putin will force this because a whole new political situation has come up with this war, both geopolitically, a fundamental tectonic movement of security policy in the world, and to do so, Hungarian foreign policy will also have to adapt; we are at the beginning of a new geopolitical era, and in this situation, I believe that it is crucial to establish the points of reference and to establish our position properly. There is no reason to rush into this situation, and I believe that this statement makes it very clear and clear where we need to start: from security, from the protection of Hungarian people, from here and beyond, from the direction of peace and from the direction of solidarity with the victim and with the people who need it. Believe me that we are at the beginning of a journey, there will be many more coming to us, and there will be a great need for the sacrifice, as the Hungarian society, by the way, moved wonderfully, perhaps in a way comparable to the events in Romania in 1989, alongside Ukraine, Transcarpathia and the Hungarians living there. The real question is, and I think that this is a very topical issue, which we all have to answer to in order to express ourselves, to adopt an approach that points towards war, or to establish positions that serve the security of Hungary and the Hungarian people, at the same time towards solidarity with the people of Ukraine, whether they are Hungarians or Ukrainians. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Applause in the ranks of DK and MSZP.]]
u2022-03-10-1-94	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken on this day. Dear Parliament, We continue our work with interpellations. Brenner Koloman, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade:. When do they finally represent the interests of Hungarian citizens? It's an address. Congressman Brenner Koloman has the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-95	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, We are all appalled by the war events in Ukraine as a result of the aggression in Putin. In this case, the most important thing is that Europe and the Western world remain united; this is something that the Fidesz government seems to support in words, as we have just heard, but we also know from Viktor Orbán that it is not about what they say, but about what they are doing. We see that, as I may remember at the Minister's annual hearing, Mr. State Secretary, I have always tried to put it in a very balanced way, and we see that over the past 12 years you have struck the balance of Hungarian foreign policy from the normal balance where, of course, we also need to maintain a balanced political and economic relationship towards the East, also towards authoritarian regimes such as Russia or Turkey or even China, but you have completely knocked this foreign policy out of a natural balance over the last 12 years. [[15.30]] By simultaneously exposing our country to a Russian influence, I think that you have made a historic mistake that we have been drinking for two weeks. The truth is that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade has no value or value, so we can put it this way that foreign policy is embedded in the fact that you are alone. You are alone in Europe, and the Polish PiS governing party has already left you. They were left alone because it was unreliable and uncreditable, what Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and your fidesz politicians were suddenly playing in front of us two weeks ago, while Russian disinformation and Russian-friendly propaganda continue to flow from the public media of HUF 130 billion of Hungarian taxpayers. So, in practice, you continue to give a double speech: here, at the level of statements, you stand up for the European Union and NATO, while, once again, you have become discredited, as you continue to hold the International Development Bank; you have received a settlement policy from Sergei Nariskin, head of the Russian secret service; you have made Putin an honorary citizen of the University of Debrecen. The good news is that on my protest and appeal on 17 March, I am very confident that the Senate of the University of Debrecen will withdraw this absolutely undeserving award, possibly on the proposal of the Fidesz government. You guys... [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Milorad Dodik is on Serbian leadership's side, so [[The president's ringing again.]] You're practically uncredited. When will they finally...
u2022-03-10-1-96	Congressman!
u2022-03-10-1-97	... representing the interests of Hungarian citizens?
u2022-03-10-1-98	Thank you.
u2022-03-10-1-99	Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-03-10-1-100	Dear Parliament, The interpellation will be answered by Minister of State Levente Magyar, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-101	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, There's been an armed conflict in Ukraine for two weeks. To be honest, Congressman, we haven't been able to deal with honors and honors issues in the last 14 days. If I may, I would like to briefly describe the issues on which the efforts of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade have been addressed during this period. When the war broke out, the rescue of Hungarian citizens had to be organized immediately in the order of a hundred, partly from areas that had been involved in armed combat since the first day of the war. We had to organise the border crossing of Hungarian transport equipment, aircraft and trucks, which were trapped in the conflict zone. We had to open all the border crossings on the Ukrainian side immediately, setting all five 24-hour service, so that the more than 200,000 people who tried to reach Hungary on the Ukrainian and Romanian-Hungarian border could enter Hungary without any problems, and of course the legal background had to be created. Honourable Congressman, More than 200,000 refugees arrived in Hungary in a very short period of time, a significant part of which remained in Hungary, did not go any further. Their placement, their food, their health care, the relevant police tasks, the transportation of these people had to be organised, and we are now at the point that a large-scale government programme is being launched in the days that we can integrate as much of this refugee population trapped or deliberately in Hungary into the Hungarian labour market through various grants. Honourable Congressman, Thousands of third-country nationals requested to be rescued from Ukraine with the help of Hungary. We've done enough. About 40 countries have contacted us as neighbouring countries to help bring their citizens over, provide for their further journey, or if they cannot continue to travel, their temporary stay in Hungary, or perhaps the further education of students who spent their student years in the war-torn Ukraine. We had to organize relief flights for Ukraine, for the situation in Ukraine; tomorrow a flight from Russia is scheduled to arrive in Budapest. We had to rescue our diplomats, bring an embassy from the capital to a rural Ukrainian town, namely Lemberg. In the meantime, the government had to organise the supply of refugees, organize supplies for the Transcarpathians, organize supplies of aid that we had to deliver centrally to Ukraine. On the second or third day of the conflict, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade ordered the compilation of an aid package of HUF 583 million, the delivery of which is ongoing in the form of means necessary for the supply of food and various refugees. We have also delivered 100,000 litres of fuel in the first days of the conflict, despite the limited capacity in Hungary; 120 respirators have been delivered. The government decided on a HUF 4.5 billion humanitarian aid programme implemented by Hungarian aid organisations. The Ministry of Defence has offered a 140 million HUF relief shipment, which is being delivered. Hungary has offered 130 Ukrainian children full care. We have offered, honourable Member, that Ukraine can contact Hungary with any request and, if we can, we will meet these requests. You can see that there's a lot to do [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] I couldn't even list them all. I'll tell you the truth, the title of honor and the medal weren't among them. By the way, I see that the University of Debrecen has answered this question. As regards the medal, I would like you to talk to Ferenc Gyurcsány about his previous relationship with Vladimir Putin. [[The president's ringing again.]] and how it affects his political position and position today. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-03-10-1-102	Thank you, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the congressman if he'll take the answer. You have the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-103	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I cannot accept your reply. It is quite clear that the very serious standing of the Hungarian society and the various public bodies that you have listed here is very right. That's not what my interpellation was about. My interpellation was that you were left alone, the European Union does not see the Fidesz government as a reliable ally, and it was about the symbolic parts of this, such as why you continue to speak in the dual media set up and operated by 130 billion Hungarian citizens, why the Minister does not return the Medal of Merit for Friendship. These are important symbolic questions, because it shows your value choice. I cannot accept your reply, thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-03-10-1-104	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our sitting today. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office: - How much do you think a container that symbolizes a bicycle storage unit costs? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Minister for Finance Mihály Varga, who is responsible and competent according to the subject, to respond to the interpellation. At the request of the Minister, Mr András Tállai, Minister of State, responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-03-10-1-105	Thank you very much. Dear House, A few square meters of square stone, some benches and a container is a symbol of an investment in Kiskörén. In the framework of the project, the Green City, they spent some HUF 45 million for the construction of a park, HUF 15 million for the preparation of a course, HUF 11 million for the purchase of a container, and HUF 5 million for the benches. The blind can also see in Kiskör, that everyone here has worked at least ten times the odds. I was personally convinced that a few metres of promenade was built, where you can see mulcs, crushed stones and pebbles, and they say that this park construction cost nearly HUF 15 million. I think that container would, by the way, be a bicycle rental, I would like to stress that there is only one bicycle in it, but if you look at this container, it comes from some kind of demolition, because it doesn't even have a bottom. This is probably the most expensive container in Hungary, but I think the benches could apply for a similar title. Recently in this area, six mayors were interviewed as witnesses and three as suspects in the constituency of Heves 3. [[15.40]] It is well known that this is still the imperium of Zsolt Szabó, who is being investigated and investigated several times, from OLAF to the Hungarian police. Here it is said that the little ball of public procurement worked in Kishör. This means that five companies are invited to participate in a well-defined round of applications on assembly lines, one company always wins, the other four quasi-fictive candidates. Well, it didn't happen any different here, in Little Köre's case. But the so-called joke markets were built in 17 settlements, sir. it has not been built, because there is a settlement where only the square stone has been laid, there is a settlement where only cables are peddling out of the ground, and there is a settlement where there is a huge crater gap as a market. In English, the money was stolen. I think the money was stolen in the case of Kisköre. According to the law, the competent minister is guarding the use of EU and domestic resources. That's why I'm asking Mr. Secretary of State how they knew what had happened in Kiskör. If there was, did you take measures, filed charges, or did you investigate this investment? Thank you. I look forward to your reply. [[It's a rare round of applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2022-03-10-1-106	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary András Tállai, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2022-03-10-1-107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, He told me where you were thinking about this case. One thing you didn't add is that you're running for Congress in this area, and it's in your political interest that what's happening there, what you do there, who don't support you, you put them out of business. And I'm sorry that this is the last interpellation of the MSZP in the cycle that should be what you said you saw in Kiskör about a TOP development, well, that's what qualifies your party; while there is war, while otherwise there are economic difficulties, while, by the way, national issues could be brought here, which are actually real, and you could rightly ask the government to give you an answer. And what do you do? There is an investment in Kiskörén,, Green City.The investment won ten such projects, by the way, Heves county, and he thinks that the mayor is a Fidesz member, I go there and I try to discredit him already. What kind of thing is something built here, and you think that what's built is much more than what's made of it? ! Here, they sent me these photos. I'd be happy to show you at the end of the interpellation or even during the interpellation, if you like. What is in the tender, the municipality has accomplished everything, at least on the basis of the images. But let me indicate that the managing authority has not yet examined how much, how, and what content this investment has been made. That's gonna come next. [[Miklós Soltesz to Lajos Korózs: We should make a video! You're good at it.]] If there is an irregularity, there will be proceedings if there is one. I indicate that otherwise there is no OLAF investigation in this case. And there's no investigation! There's your statement here in front of Parliament that something terrible has happened here. Now we know for sure what purpose you did this for. But it really doesn't belong here, what kind of investigation you think is going on against your political opponent at the end of a term, and then you're going to head that up, and I don't know what kind of investigation you're talking about, of course, in the hope that the voters in your district will hear that, and they'll get their hearts: oh, my God, we're not gonna vote for who we want here. [[Lajos Korózs rises to speak. Miklós Soltész: There's still one minute left!]] I'm telling you this is not the way this world works. Of course, you have the right to say everything in Parliament, but here you are accusing people or communities of stealing money without any investigation, without any official statement, that you are accusing people of having made more money than could otherwise have been achieved... and I am sorry, I also doubt that you have been there and have looked at these developments. [[Deterioration in the benches of KDNP and Fidesz.]] What I saw on YouTube was that he sent his man there, and with a man who would never be able to use this investment anyway, they did a report with it, but they couldn't say a bad word, except that, well, this is here, and there's something going on with it. That was the worst. Mr. Korós, how are you doing with the chamomuvide, by the way? Is the investigation still there, or is that over? Is that okay? Only in parentheses, since you were talking about investigations, allow me to ask you in the end. [[Deterioration in the benches of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-03-10-1-108	Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congressman Lajos Korózs to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-109	I don't accept it, and it's the last ten seconds, and I think it's... [[Noise, interruptions in the pro-government benches.]] Well, if someone's a jerk, I can't deal with that. I apologize. [[Uproar, interrogation in the pro-government benches. Dr. Bence Rétvári: What a cultural man you are! Dr. Lajos Szűcs: Take the floor, Mr. President. Miklós Soltész: Shame on you! Shame on you.]]
u2022-03-10-1-110	We're in Parliament, Congressman.
u2022-03-10-1-111	Well, let's start with... Mr. President. [[There's a lot of noise in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-03-10-1-112	There you go. Keep going. Go on, be nice.
u2022-03-10-1-113	In this town, Kiskörén, in this constituency, billions have been stolen. Billions! It's no coincidence that the police questioned six mayors as witnesses, it's no coincidence that the police questioned three mayors as suspects. Besides, you can see the exact price the cobblers are working at, the price the park builders are working at, and it is clear that they did not spend nearly 100 million forints on this investment here. I can't accept your answer.
u2022-03-10-1-114	Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our sitting today. Dear Parliament, Anett Bősz, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade:. When will you finally admit it? It's an address. Congresswoman Anett will take the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Deputy Minister, We all see what the closest political ally of the Hungarian government, Vladimir Putin and the Russian army in Ukraine are doing: they have invaded an independent free nation with tanks and tanks. They attack big cities, homes, desperate families, mothers and children in the subway to survive the Russian bombings. The Minister of Foreign Affairs recently said at a press conference that 2021 was the most successful year for Hungarian-Russian relations, but this year they want to achieve even greater success. This is what my questions relate to, which I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State. When will it finally be admitted that Hungary cannot build a nuclear power plant, and with this in the territory of the European Union, a country committing war aggression and war crimes against one of our neighbours? When are they gonna announce that even if there is a Paks II. At all, are you sure it's not going to be built by my Rosatom? This issue is not only about economic sanctions against Russia, but also about security policy, because let me remind you that we are NATO and EU members. When are you finally going to admit that it was a mistake to let the Russian spy bank in Budapest? I am talking about the International Investment Bank, which everyone from Europe to America knows is the shield of Russian intelligence covert actions in Europe. You have not only allowed this bank in, you have also committed the shame of having the Lanchid Palace as its seat, which Minister Mihály Varga personally handed over. When will Vladimir Putin's assets and the assets of his Russian oligarchs be frozen and stored in Hungary? Or would that be such a painful step that the Russian aggressor did not allow the Hungarian government to take? When will you finally admit that the Hungarian foreign policy of the last 12 years has failed? When will there finally be a true word for you in this House about the betrayal of our European allies every day for 12 years throughout the Euroatlantic federal system. They Brusselsed until sunrise and were given instructions from Moscow on how to move in the international field, not only in terms of economic, not just the energy market, but also in terms of security policy. When and who among you will apologize to the Hungarian people for this historical shame that has taken place in the last 12 years? [[15.50]] Mr. Secretary, my last question to you is when Péter Szijjártó will return his Medal of Honor for Friendship in Moscow, and you are not ashamed that a war criminal awarded our Secretary of State, calling you his friend. I look forward to your reply, especially with regard to the part where you try to pretend that Vladimir Putin is not your friend. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the independents.]]
u2022-03-10-1-116	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The interpellation will be answered by Minister of State Levente Magyar, Deputy Minister. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Minister.
u2022-03-10-1-117	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you for asking. Dear House, I find it shameful that the opposition has been using the tragedy of war for political gain for days now, and is attacking the government by manipulating the emotions clearly aroused in the wake of the war. The truth is, from here on out, it's morally irrelevant what he says, because morally, he's already failing this first filter. However, due to respect for voters, let us take a closer look at the accusations that have been made and why these are not real. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If I understand the Left's argument correctly, the fundamental problem is that Hungary has established cooperation with Russia in recent years. This morning, Mr Harvesto went so far as to say here in Parliament that the government had chained Hungary to Russia. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Hungary was linked to Russia by your predecessors, creating a geopolitical reality that this government and this generation are trying to make the most of. Our ancestors, honourable Member, were on the other side in 56 and on the other side of the barricade we fought against communism and the Soviet occupation. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You are rebuilding communism!]] Your predecessors, the predecessor of the MSZP, all parties involved in the left-wing cooperation, are engaged in a moral community with those who have crippled Hungary. [[Intercoms from Fidesz: That's right! It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks. Dániel Z. Carpathian: We do not want any community with you! You're rebuilding communism!]] And the kind of coercion which, before 89 on the left, is still his own, gives a lesson in his mouth every day. You are not guided by the Hungarian interest, but by the desire to comply. You, Honourable Hungarian Left, do not believe that this country is able to stand on its own feet and make sovereignly responsible decisions. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Tell the evicted families!]] This footman's policy is also dangerous in peacetime, but it is an existential threat in war. Calmness, calmness, discretion [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: Tell your executive friends!]] and not hysterical outbursts due to the fact that we do not provide Hungarians with complete insecurity of living with all kinds of impossible demands. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: For executives only!]] We have made it clear, our House: we condemn aggression, we stand up for Ukraine, we help Ukraine to our strength, and we help the refugees, but we are not willing to risk the country's safety of life, not even for the sake of the Hungarian left. You would have the Hungarians pay the price of this war. [[Intruder from Fidesz: That's right!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As regards the relationship between the Hungarian left and the Hungarian right [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: There is no one to your right!]] At the time of your previous government, Russia was able to flow gas towards Hungary from two directions, i.e. from two directions. Now there are six such relations. The civil government has tripled the country's gas diversification map over the last 12 years. This government has made sure that the infrastructure inherited from Soviet-Russian times is not unilaterally exposed. We have done much more, exactly three times as much to this end as you and your friends of principle, who governed this country until 2010. Gas is a fixed infrastructure, energy is not a philosophical issue, but a matter of facts, Madam honourable Member, you know that quite clearly. As far as the bank is concerned, you can't really accuse Brussels of being biased towards the Russians, and Brussels didn't put this bank on the sanction list. If this is a Russian spy bank, do you think, honourable Member, that the West wouldn't have put them on the sanction list? This is a multilateral bank announced at the UN, which finances hundreds of Hungarian businesses, and after a bank, a Hungarian bank, has already fallen victim to the situation, do not demand that the players of the Hungarian economy make more sacrifices, only in the European Union. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-03-10-1-118	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I give the floor for a rejoinder to the congresswoman. Will you accept the answer?
u2022-03-10-1-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Secretary of State, I cannot accept the answer, not even because at the beginning you referred badly to my political figures. A few words about 56. In this house, when Soviet soldiers kicked in Parliament's doors, István Bibó wrote a letter to a young man to run with him to the U.S. embassy, and this young man was called Árpád Göncz. These are the people that I like to remember from '56 and not from '56, because I think that it is our duty here to remember all those who stood up against the Hungarian freedom, the Hungarian country and the Russian invaders. This is what the Ukrainian people are doing now, by the way. I'm so sorry that our shared alma mater couldn't give us the same thing as a precious world. I can see we're on both sides of the political palette for a reason. Unfortunately, that's all it took a minute. I can't accept your answer, but thank you for telling me.
u2022-03-10-1-120	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman didn't accept the answer. I would like to inform you that a decision will be taken in accordance with our agreed agenda today. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade:. The government rejects the Russian spy bank from Hungary! It's an address. Congressman Antal Csárdi has the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-121	Thank you very much for the floor. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Did you get a gas meter?]] Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Russia has launched an attack on Ukraine, they want to take away the independence of a sovereign state, a nation, committing serious war crimes and crimes against humanity. The putini aggression has reached a shocking level, and in this situation, there are three things we can do. Firstly, we strongly condemn the aggression in Putin and express our full solidarity with Ukraine. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Are you sending a check?]] Secondly, we are doing everything we can to guarantee the safety of our fellow countrymen in Ukraine. Last but not least, we say clearly and firmly that Russia is not helping, but endangering Hungary's independence. Ladies and gentlemen, I am deeply sad, as Prime Minister Viktor Orbán agreed with this last point in 2008, when Putin similarly invaded Georgia, almost word for word. Therefore, I can only hope that the representative of the Hungarian Government, who will now respond, will take the answer of the 2008 Fidesz as a basis, not in 2022. The opposition is united in demanding that the government reject the bank called the International Investment Bank, which is infamous in intelligence. Because of the international situation, both the Czech Republic and Romania did so last week, as they announced their withdrawal from the Convention. Clearly, this is also the fundamental moral obligation of the government of a responsible country, which has experienced Russian aggression. The bank created by Putin announced in 2018 that it would transfer its seat to Budapest, and the Fidesz majority voted in favour of granting full immunity from the supervision of the Hungarian authorities and allowing its leaders and guests to move according to the rules of diplomatic immunity in Hungary, thus in the European Union. According to national security reports, the former KGST bank recreated by Putin and the Kremlin is, in fact, a spy bank, carrying out almost crude intelligence activities in Hungary and thus in the European Union, and investing and economic activity only slightly or as a cover. In the current situation, Viktor Orbán has a fundamental obligation not only to support the common position of the EU and NATO on the Russian-Ukrainian war, but also to act in the framework of sanctions against the Russians, which the Romanian and Czech governments have already left, to step out of the Investment Bank and reject the infamous leaders of the bank with KGB ties. It is not enough in international diplomacy to quote Viktor Orbán to watch what I am doing, not what I say. There must be action here, and the Hungarian government, so proud of its sovereignty, can actually do something to prevent Hungary's independence from being further damaged. Minister, when are we expected to announce the exit or the expulsion of the spy bank? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[16.00]]
u2022-03-10-1-122	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The interpellation will be answered by Minister of State Levente Magyar, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-123	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I'll repeat myself. You almost completely cancel the list of demands that the government faces every day from different directions, but I think that as a Hungarian Member, we should think somewhat more responsibly about the consequences of these steps, not generally politically, diplomatically, but for Hungarian people. You are now demanding again something that would be detrimental only to the Hungarian people. This is an international financial institution, which once again operates on a multilateral basis: a bank notified to the United Nations, which was not sanctioned by the United States or the European Union, while a number of financial institutions were placed on that particular sanction list. Why should we bring down hundreds of Hungarian businesses, which are financed by this bank in the order of hundreds of billions, days after a Hungarian bank has already gone bankrupt, putting thousands of Hungarian businesses in an impossible position? Please list another EU country or NATO country in which a bank has fallen in with all the money of 16,000 businesses. Hungary has already sacrificed on the altar of the situation in this sense. Why do you demand that we go on this path? Honourable Congressman, Hungary has respected, voted in favour of all joint consensus sanctions decisions, and we are part and part of these decisions, and this will not be any different. As for Paks, you didn't say anything about Paks. [[Depreciation in opposition ranks.]] but in relation to the opposition, this is a permanent element of claims [[Antal Csárdi applauds.]] To stop Paks. Dear House, Every day, the opposition tells us from hour to hour that we have to quit the Paks project. I respectfully ask what we're doing to replace Paks. Russian gas? Should we burn more Russian gas to generate our energy? Or should we install wind farms for ten times the price? What about the nuclear fuel the Russians are delivering to us if we jump out of the project now? These are questions that would put millions of Hungarians in a state of insecurity that we cannot afford. You are here as a political voice with these items, but you have no solution to the alternatives, and there is no real content of what you are demanding if you think about it more. Technically and on the basis of Hungarian interests, what they are asking for is not feasible and harmful to the interests of Hungarian people. Both the International Investment Bank and the investment in Paks and the introduction of energy sanctions would have consequences for Hungary that the country could not bear. Therefore, a responsible government can do one thing by not supporting these steps until a decision is taken on them. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-03-10-1-124	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the congressman to accept the Deputy Minister's reply. [[Dr. István Simicskó: Yes!]] You have the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-125	Mr President, I cannot accept it, especially because you clearly have interpretational difficulties and text-interpretation problems, Mr. State Secretary, when you start talking about Paks when I ask you about the Investment Bank. The fact is, Mr Secretary of State, it is not a coincidence, despite all its fairy tale stories, that Romania and the Czech Republic have left this convention. And why they quit and why we should quit, I also told you during my interpellation. According to national security reports, this spy bank is, in fact, only engaged in crude intelligence activities. There would be no harm to Hungarian citizens if you were to expel this bank. And I note quietly that the price has indeed been paid, because the result of this swing policy that you are doing between Russia and the European Union is that last week the euro price reached 400 HUF. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2022-03-10-1-126	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. I would like to inform you that a decision will be taken in accordance with our agreed agenda today. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister without a wallet for the expansion of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant:. In view of the Russian aggression and the sanctions voted by Fidesz MEPs, the government finally cancels the Paks II project? It's an address. Congressman Cake Olivio has the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-127	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Fidesz's pro-government representatives voted in favour of the following text in the European Parliament: the European Parliament is calling on the Member States to terminate all cooperation with Russia in the nuclear field, in particular with Rosatom and its subsidiaries, including cooperation with Russia within the framework of the International Atomic Energy Agency, and to terminate or withdraw the operating licences of all Rosatom's subsidiaries. After that, it's not entirely clear why they're refusing to suspend Paks II. Do the MEPs disagree with the government, or did they not know what they were voting for? But not only because of the EU sanctions, Paks II, but also because of the aggressions in Putin, as in this form, Paks II. So national security risk, because if Paks is built in this form, then we will be at Putin's disposal, practically he will decide when the Hungarian people can turn on the lights. And you can see that the Russian leader is not afraid of anything if he wants to enforce his will and his interests. If you feel like it, you'll start a war. What would prevent him from paralyzing Paks II? build or disable Paks II. if it's in your best interest? Dear Minister, Fidesz promised in its 2010 campaign program that they would insulate, renovate the homes and houses of Hungarian people, and thus reduce their overhead bill. Instead, they have created an addiction that makes us the most vulnerable of all European Member States to Putin. Meanwhile, wind power plants have practically been banned, solar panels are taxed. They squandered 12 expensive years, which should have been devoted to Hungarian energy independence, should have been used to create energy security in Hungary, and they do not seem to be willing to change and correct it now. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Minister, In view of the Russian aggression and the sanctions voted by the Fidesz MEPs, the government is suspending Mr Paks II. construction? I'm waiting for your answer. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2022-03-10-1-128	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Minister János Süli responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Minister.
u2022-03-10-1-129	Mr President, Dear House, Congressman! Thank you for asking. I don't know how many times today it will be said that we will not suspend the construction of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. As long as sanctions give us the opportunity, which at the moment gives us the opportunity, and we trust that your proposal affects more countries in Europe, it cannot be implemented, so we will continue to build it. All the more so, because if I asked you where the fuel from the 15 nuclear power plants in Ukraine came from, who has provided fuel for Russia in spite of the conflict for eight years, even though Ukraine could have resigned calmly in view of the war. But in the same way as what you are asking, the subsidiary of Rosatom is TVEL, which supplies fuel to Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Bulgaria, Finland, Hungary, Ukraine, then the European electricity system would collapse within two days if we could not ensure fuel supply. It is fortunate that the legislation is also recorded in Hungary that it has two years' reserves, so we clearly need this. The danger you're saying is that even gas transport is stopped or insulated, because electricity is in fact minimal, which we heat houses, so gas use could be reduced, but it cannot be solved, and solar power plants are installed, 3700 megawatts are installed for renewables, and they also require it, because when the sun doesn't shine, the wind doesn't blow, it has to be some kind of quick start-up solution, and this is gas. So the more renewables we're going to install, the more substitute sources need to be integrated into the system. So if we look at the situation from an energy point of view, you would run a huge risk of operating the entire European electricity system and gas supply, which is not allowed. [[16.10]] I don't even talk about István Nagy sitting here about the need for natural gas to produce fertilizer, without fertilizer, we won't have such agricultural production. So we should not visualize that the lack of electricity and gas will cause people to freeze in the winter, the apartments will be cold, but would also cause problems in food production. So if the point of the question was once again to build the nuclear power plant, I will continue to confirm that yes, we will continue to build. We must pay attention to sanctions, because this is also a good business for America, a good business for Germany, France, because several of their companies have won as subcontractors in this project with the Russians. For example, Turbine Island, Control Technology, Landworks were won by German, American, and French companies. So we need to focus not only on EU sanctioning measures but also on specific measures. But we can do that, and I'm really glad that again, for the fifth time, for the tenth time, it gives us the opportunity to repeat that we have no intention of stopping. If someone stops us, the government will decide how they react. Today, the Prime Minister is discussing the same issues, and Germany is with us, because the issue of energy supply is a huge problem for him. It's easy for America to say that he doesn't need gas and oil from the Russians, because he's barely carrying, but for example, he needs enriched uranium, and there the U.S. nuclear power plant operators asked the government to keep the nuclear energy sector out of the way. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-03-10-1-130	I thank the Minister for his reply. I ask Congressman to accept the Minister's answer. You have the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-131	Thank you for the floor. You are not arguing with me, Minister, your Fidesz representative, Members of the European Parliament, voted in favour of this text, and this goes against what you have said. You were talking about Paks I. the whole time. No one said anything about shutting down Paks I., ensuring its operation until 2030. I don't know why you're bringing Paks I. We are talking about Paks II, that we should suspend it, because, as I said, there is a very high risk, and we can see that the Russian leader, if necessary, uses energy as a weapon. We can also see Putin threatening the world with nuclear weapons. Yeah, you can laugh about that, you have to look back at his statement. We can also see that he's attacking a working nuclear power plant, shooting near a nuclear reactor. Such a man, such a leader, cannot be cooperated in this matter, it is quite obvious, so I cannot accept his answer.
u2022-03-10-1-132	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Minister's answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our sitting today. Dear Parliament, Mr.Barna Pál Zsigmond, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:. This is what Transcarpathia deserves from the Hungarian left? It's an address. Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond has the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, It cannot be stressed enough that Hungary, together with its allies, fully condemns the Russian attack on Ukraine. A war broke out in our neighbor, which should not have been, and which must be ended as soon as possible. Our goal is peace, and our task is to protect the Hungarian people and the refugees who are coming to us. To this end, we must not allow Hungary to drift into this conflict in any way. We reject the left-wing suggestion that Hungary should send weapons or soldiers to Ukraine, and we hope that those who have made statements of this content will finally come to their senses. We would like to encourage everyone to be sober and calm, because a new situation has arisen. Now it's war, people are dying. Every statement is unusually heavy, and anyone, any country or group of peoples, may be put at risk as a result of a single thoughtless sentence. The left has begun a dangerous and repulsive campaign. Ladies and gentlemen of the left, do you really think that only the Hungarian public will be able to get the full-blown lies with which they are trying to attack the Prime Minister or the Government? For so many years, our Hungarian brothers across the border have been rejected, and now even a target is drawn on the forehead of the Transcarpathians? [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: Shame!]] Where they're labeled Russian friends, where they encourage covens to fight heroes. Again, you do not think it is expensive to push the Hungarians against their own political interests. It is irresponsible to such an extent that there may be unforeseen consequences. Dear House, If it were up to the left, tens of thousands of Hungarian compatriots would now be in grave danger without a Hungarian passport across the closed Ukrainian border. If it were up to them, they would send weapons and soldiers into a war conflict that we had nothing to do with, which certainly does not serve our interests, and even endangers the Hungarians. If it were up to them, our energy security would be compromised and we should rely on foreign soldiers to protect our country. Dear Secretary of State, In this regard, I ask you: what are the interests of our country in the current situation? How can we best serve the interests of Hungarians, whether our fellow countrymen from or beyond the border? What are the dangers of the Left's attitude? Mr Secretary of State, I look forward to your reply. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-03-10-1-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Miklós Soltész responds to the interpellation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-03-10-1-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to start the left-wing approach to Transcarpathian Hungarians from a little further away. Remember? They refused. Remember, they didn't want to give them passports. Remember, when it came to them at any time, whether it was the right to vote, they wanted to withdraw everything from them, and now, in recent months, as the election campaign started, they were constantly abused and hurt. Now, when the biggest problem arose, and unfortunately everyone feels it, they made statements that you mentioned. This was done by the left-wing and the company whose leader, Ferenc Gyurcsány, said in 2008 that Putin would go into Georgia in 2008, and from there an offensive policy, which did not recognise the sovereignty of other countries, began to change his relationship with President Putin. Ferenc Gyurcsány said that the other day about a 2008 period. Of course, the expensive one adds that buying gas or a vaccine from the Russians is one thing. That's the double speech, isn't it? One of them says we don't negotiate with Putin, and the other side says, "Well, let's get this." This line can be continued, as in 2009 Ferenc Gyurcsány does what he does in a private restaurant in Moscow, in a private restaurant in Ukraine: he eats dinner together, his wife and he may still talk about what's going on with the dog Toto and what was in the tiny villa in the previous negotiations; and now they are accusing the Hungarian government together, including the Hungarians of Transcarpathia, that we are the surrogates of Russia or anyone else. They are the ones responsible for the people who are now in trouble in Transcarpathia. They are the ones responsible for the many, many sufferings that the people who live there have endured in recent weeks and in the past, in recent months. Let's continue to see what is endangering not only the Transcarpathians, but also the Hungarian people in general, but, I add, the lives of the Ukrainian people as well. When it is said that weapons must be transported from Hungary through Transcarpathia, and soldiers must be transferred, then the only area that is now peaceful would be involved in the war, where, by the way, tens and tens of thousands are not Hungarians, but Ukrainians, people from the Far East, African students and others are fleeing. If we did that, what would be the safety of the people we would otherwise like to guarantee? If we look at statements about the need to transport weapons, enlist young people, then the mothers who live here among us, the parents whose sons would be taken to Transcarpathia, and then to Ukraine, what would they say? I think everyone would object. They'd be the first to pull themselves out of this horrible act in any way. They're the ones who are destroying this country, destroying the community we're in. So I must say that all such left-wing steps and announcements must be rejected. The most interesting thing would be, though I think it would be sad what would happen to those young people on the left, let's say, who are campaigning now, who are running around the candidates now, if they weren't supposed to be in the forums, not on Facebook, but in practice clothes, in Ukraine. Now, that's the big question. But I'm sure they'd say thank you very much. They don't want that. That's what I can tell you, Congressman. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[16.20]]
u2022-03-10-1-136	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yes, I accept the answer. László Brenzovics, President of the Cultural Association of Hungarians in Transcarpathia, was here today at the meeting, and yesterday at the Foreign Affairs Committee, he also explicitly stated that they should leave the Hungarians in Transcarpathia out of the campaign and not be used as a tool in the Hungarian election campaign. At the same time, he said that he thanked the Hungarian people for their solidarity, and that the cooperation that has developed, especially along the border, is truly unprecedented. Let me mention here our fellow Member, Attila Tilki, who has been here, who has been there continuously with the local mayors since practically 21 February, and I also commend him, and President Brenzovich has especially welcomed the patience and positive attitude of those living along the border. Indeed, the left is threatening Hungary, Hungary's security, economy and the livelihood of families. These issues will also be decided on 3 April. Let us preserve the peace and security of Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-03-10-1-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Miklós Seszták, a representative of KDNP, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office:, How does the Hungarian government help people fleeing Ukraine? It's an address. Congressman Miklós Seszták has the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-139	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The pandemic has not even ended, we have not recovered from the economic and social problems caused by the pandemic, we have barely felt the joy of a fresh start and a breath when the war broke out next door. Crowds forced to leave their homes, fleeing from war, hundreds of thousands of people set out. Many have also taken the course towards Hungary, mostly women and children, fleeing from a terrible outcome, crossing our eastern border with the hope of survival and concern for their loved ones left at home. They are our most basic human duty, as many people and organizations do, and as the Fidesz-KDNP government has done from the very first moment. I may not need to stress how worried we are about Transcarpathian Hungarians and not only for the people currently fleeing, but also for those who stayed in their homeland during the war, their help must also be provided. Therefore, on the day after the outbreak of the war, the Hungarian government launched a support action with a motto for Transcarpathia of Bridge with the aim of coordinating multi-directional civil, charitable organizational, municipal and government assistance and helping it from state sources, thus contributing to the Hungarians of Transcarpathia in the first place, but everyone is helped. Dear Secretary of State, Throughout history, we have proved many times that we can unite in real trouble, just as we do now. The Fidesz-KDNP government reacted with exemplary speed in the event of the red sludge disaster and the 2013 flood, and this is no different in the present situation. Unfortunately, there are also a number of examples of some who want to use the confusing situation for their own purposes and make soundy but very irresponsible statements. Please don't let this happen. What is more important now is organized and coordinated assistance. Donations have been received since the first minute, whether it is an individual offering, a food donation or an inclusive family offering. The organization and storage of donations are also the work of many helping hands. We also thank volunteer helpers for their tireless continuous and enthusiastic work. God bless your work. The Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the government's actions to a large extent. We are also asking with our concern about avoiding a humanitarian disaster, Mr. Secretary of State, how the Hungarian government is helping people fleeing Ukraine and how we can help those who remain at home. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-03-10-1-140	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Miklós Soltész responds to the interpellation. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to thank, by the way, Congressman Attila Tilki and the mayors in the area, who are working there, for the fantastic work they have done. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] ; law enforcement bodies, health workers, doctors, nurses, charities and workers there, many, many volunteers; and I would like to thank many, many voluntary offerings; educators who volunteer to teach Ukrainian children. I could list a long line, a lot of people were involved, and they would continue to participate in the assistance in the future. I can tell you that the country has come together almost as one man. I can say that almost because the left, as in the Covid epidemic, is taking advantage of this very difficult time for nothing but to attack, to criticize, or to do nothing the most. I've seen left-wing representatives go to the border, self-destruct a good one, they tell me what great things they did, and then they go home. But the problem, the work, the task, the night, was waiting for all those who stayed there, honourable Member, because you know the area we are talking about. However, the attitude that they have shown over the last few weeks and months shows their attitude by insulting the work of those involved in the defence, constantly attacking, constantly criticizing, and totally unacceptable what they are doing. However, the government had to take immediate action. On the one hand, the work of border control agencies had to be strengthened, and the one who sees what they do every day with their hats off is fantastic! In the same way, in the framework of the programme for the Transcarpathia of the Bridge, the charitable organisations will do everything to help and support Hungarian families, Ukrainian families, and I add that they will help and support the lives of young people and refugees from more than forty countries. We've established help points at five locations. In recent days, more than 110,000 aids have been implemented in these locations, and so far there has been no such cooperation in the country. Warehouses are full, so many offerings are coming to the border, we'll have to accept the offerings elsewhere. I would just like to say to Szabó Timea: don't bring any vegetables or other stuff into this Parliament, you can take it as a pledge elsewhere. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] In the last few days, in just over a week, 638 million HUF has arrived on the national donation line or account number. Hats off to the donors! On the Hungarian government's side, we gave HUF 500 million, HUF 3 billion to the charities involved in the defence, and through the Hungarian Helps, we gave HUF 2 billion in support to help beyond the Carpathians and Transcarpathia. That's what the government did with a lot of other things. That would be the lucky one, that would be the good thing, we would ask the left-wing opposition to be quiet at least once; if they don't want to help, be quiet if they can't admit it anymore. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The work of others. Thank you for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-03-10-1-142	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I'll ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer. You have the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-143	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I've been to Transcarpathia four times since the war broke out. Believe me, my fellow Members, the concern you see in the eyes of the Transcarpathians out there, those from the interior of Ukraine, cannot be seen elsewhere. They trust me, they trust us, they trust the Hungarians. I would also like to thank everyone here for their work, who will help them day and night. Allow me to thank everyone for their work with a quote from the Scriptures: "For I was hungry, and you gave me food, and I was thirsty, and you gave me drink, and I was a refugee, and you took me in, verily I say to you, when you did this to one of the smallest, you did it to me. Thank you for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[16.30]]
u2022-03-10-1-144	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Zita Gurmai and Sándor Szabó, representatives of the MSZP, have submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:, And we see that the wage-voltage scissors in the healthcare sector will open up one third of this year, less than a quarter of next year's wages will be paid by a doctor. It's an address. Mr Sándor Szabó has the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, As a very serious topic, I think it sounds like the last interpellation of the cycle. I would like to interpelle on the issue of a very serious social group of health workers, and I would also like to tell Mr Tállai, State Secretary, that the last interpellation is asking very serious questions, because this interpellation could be addressed by the police, civil servants, local government workers and teachers, because they are equally affected by this issue. And we see that the wage-voltage scissors in health care are opening up, this year one third, next year less than a quarter of a worker's salary for a doctor's salary. The above quote comes from the Hungarian Health Professionals' Chamber and is a very good illustration of the situation of health professionals and health professionals. The government has communicated a 30% wage increase, while this could well be 20 percent compared to last year, but that is not entirely true, and I will come to why not, which is talkative, as it would not be much more than an increase in the minimum wage, although we know precisely that health professionals have provided superhuman performance and work on the control of the coronal virus epidemic. Nor do they receive this 20% increase in wages in many institutions, as the employees' basic wages are included in the previous salaries, so their actual wage increase is actually around 7.6 percent. In January 2022 inflation was 7.9 percent, the February figure is 8.3 percent. So the formula is very simple: it can be seen that, in fact, the rate of this wage increase does not cover even the increase in inflation. I think we all agree that this is completely unacceptable and that it conveys a complete lack of respect for the profession. We have demanded and said many times, and we have also made a number of proposals to increase the wages of health professionals and health workers to at least the same extent and at the same pace that it should have been done in parallel with the wages of doctors. For all these reasons, I ask the Secretary of State: when will the real health worker wage increase demanded by the opposition be carried out? What is the reason why even a wage increase following inflation is a reward for health professionals who have been fighting a superhuman outbreak of the Crown Virus for years? What do you want to do to ensure that healthcare professionals receive a real, deserved and fair wage increase in 2022? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2022-03-10-1-146	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The interpellation will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-147	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, [[Noise in the room. The president's ringing the bell.]] I agree with you so much, but only to say that every Hungarian health worker who helped protect against the coronal virus epidemic in hospitals and clinics has been better protected by vaccination programs, because, indeed, Hungarian health workers have been more effective than many other countries, as well as health workers in countries richer than we are, and there has been fewer risk of coronal virus, fewer people have been affected, fewer deaths than in other countries that are richer than we are, so they should be recognised. However, on the part of a left-wing politician, the sentences you have said here, or the title of your interpellation, are the peaks of cynicism and duplicity, honourable Member. You have reduced the pay gap between doctors and nurses by reducing both the wages of doctors and the nurses. [[Intercom from the benches of the governing parties: That's right!]] And because the wages were lower for both of them, the difference between these two groups was less; and to make fewer people have such wage differences, so you even dismissed 6,000 health workers. This was the left-wing program. It was you who said that they would introduce a visitation fee, introduce hospital allowances so that they could raise wages for nurses and doctors. The fee was introduced; the wage was not increased but reduced. This was the health program on the left, and this is what they're planning to do right now. We have heard in the last few months that your Prime Minister's candidate has spoken that they are preparing the same thing that has already bankrupted Hungarian health care. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] That you've taken the funds, I'm not claiming it. I'm claiming it's your own health minister. Lajos Molnár, Minister of Social Health, said that after the establishment of the second Gyurcsány government, the greatest withdrawal affected health. He himself admitted to being the Minister of Health that you guys just pulled me out of health care. Of course, he didn't say that when he was a minister, but afterwards, when he looked back at that period. There was a result. While you took over Hungary by working with 37 295 doctors in Hungary, it was then handed over that instead of 37 thousand, there were 33 943 doctors in Hungary; we have been able to raise this 33 943 to 37 188 in recent years. In your time, the number of doctors in Hungary has decreased by thousands, while in recent years the number of doctors has increased. [[Continue in 234/2!]] 2018-2022. parliamentary term Budapest, Thursday, 10 March 2022 234/2. Number Parliamentary Diary It is no wonder that it has decreased, because you have closed the children's hospital in Svábhegy, closed OPNI, closed the Szabolcs Street Hospital, closed the Schöpf-Mere Hospital; indeed, doctors and nurses have been dismissed. And they didn't give up this habit, because Imre László, your health politician, told me that they would continue to do this, and that they would close 45 percent of hospitals. That wasn't enough for your Prime Minister's candidate. He told me that outpatient clinics would be grouped together. But even that wasn't enough, he and other health politicians said that we don't need emergency services in every hospital, we don't need obstetrics everywhere, smaller cities are satisfied with a hospital without obstetrics and emergency care, and even where there is obstetrics, we don't need an obstetrician. This is therefore your programme, honourable Member. As Ferenc Gyurcsány said here in Parliament a few months ago: a real, progressive strategic reform, he said to introduce the visit fee, which he would repeat. So you'd pay for health care, privatize health care, because you said you'd be calm if it was a health business. We also confirmed by a referendum, in 2004, that health can't be a business, health can't be privatised, honourable Member. But let's look at the wages of the nurses. This year, 239 billion extra resources will be spent on raising nursing wages. So a nurse with an OKJ degree paid 160,000 forints at your time, now 357 thousand forints. [[Zoltán Balczó intervenes.]] A nurse who has worked for 20 years can earn HUF 405 thousand instead of HUF 170 thousand, and a 20-year-old nurse with a higher education degree will take home 470 thousand forints instead of your 220 thousand forints. The greater the danger to health is that the left should return to power and continue where he left off in 2010. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-03-10-1-148	I ask Mr. Congressman to accept the Deputy Minister's reply. You have the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-149	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't accept the answer. Secretary of State, do you know what's cynical? He's still pointing back for 12 years. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Now you'd like to introduce me again...]] But then I ask you, I continue to ask you: do you know that 17,000 nurses have left the profession in the last year? Do you know that there is still a worker who, after 50 years of working, still earns HUF 200,000 net? Do you know that, by the way, the starting wage for nurses in many cases does not reach 150,000 forints? [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: That's not true...]] By the way, do you know that nurses change shifts, work 12-hour shifts, and they don't win their jobs? Are you aware, Mr. Secretary, of what is really going on in the business, what is happening in the field? Greater respect and decent pay for healthcare workers [[Interview from the benches of MSZP: That's right!]] as well as the police, local government workers and teachers. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You should have done the same...]] And we'll do it after the government change on April 3. Thank you.
u2022-03-10-1-150	Dear Parliament, Congressman did not accept the Deputy Minister's reply. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our sitting today. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the interpellation trial. We will now continue our work with decisions. Please take your seats. Check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. [[It's happening.]] Dear Parliament, In line with our adopted agenda, decisions are now being taken to accept the responses to the interpellations that have been made today. Brenner Koloman, representative of Jobbik, is I/18315. No response to interpellation was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 125 votes in favour, 43 votes against and one abstention. [[16.40]] Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of MSZP, I/18317. No response to interpellation was accepted. I'll ask the National Assembly, you'll accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 127 votes in favour, 46 votes against and one abstention. Anett Bősz, representative of DK, I/1831. No response to interpellation was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 129 votes in favour, 44 votes against and one abstention. Antal Csárdi, representative of LMP, I/18355. No response to interpellation was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 129 votes in favour, 44 votes against and two abstentions. Kocsis-Cake Olivio, representative of the Dialogue, I/18316. No response to interpellation was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 130 votes in favour, 44 votes against and one abstention. Zita Gurmai and Sándor Szabó, representatives of MSZP, I/18219. No response to interpellation was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 129 votes in favour, 46 votes against and one abstention. Dear Parliament, Coming up next, P/18373 on the Russian-Ukrainian War. Final vote on the proposal for a political declaration No 1. As no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the political statement submitted. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of this political declaration requires a vote in favour of more than half of the Members of Parliament. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept P/18373. Political Declaration No 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the political statement by 174 votes to one, with two abstentions. The following is the 1997 CXXIV on the material conditions for the religious and public activities of the churches. T/18205 on the amendment of law and other laws Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/18205/7. T/18205/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 9, 16, 18-24, 27, 31, 33, 39, 41, 43 and 46 of this Decision, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the points requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/18205/7. Points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 132 votes in favour, 5 votes against and 3 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/18205/7. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted further points requiring a simple majority, with 131 votes in favour, 4 votes against and 3 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/18205/9. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 132 votes in favour, 3 votes against and 3 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/18205/9. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 132 votes in favour, 4 votes against and 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is up to you to discuss and decide on the immunity case. I would like to inform you that there was a motion to suspend the immunity of Csaba Tóth, MSZP, Member of Parliament, on 1 March 2022 KSB 2848/2021. I'm hearing from the Attorney General in a public prosecutor's charge of the crime of trafficking. The Speaker of Parliament has issued this to the immunity committee for examination. The immunity committee shall be H/18359. Mr Csaba Tóth presented a proposal for a resolution on the immunity of Member of Parliament. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I will give the floor to János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal in a five-minute time frame. Mr. President, you have the floor. [[Dr. János Harghitai's microphone doesn't work.]] I need a microphone for the president. One moment, please, the technical assistance will be here immediately.
u2022-03-10-1-151	[[For portable microphones:]] Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Mr President, In the transcript of the Attorney General's transcript, Csaba Tóth filed a motion to suspend the immunity of MP Csaba Tóth for the crime of trafficking. The facts of this very long transcript can be established as follows: Csaba Tóth is the capital's XIV. district, former representative of the municipality of Zugló, then from 2014 onwards the district's parliamentary representative. Csaba H., as the document says, but I can also call him Csaba Horváth, as a public figure, as a public figure, the transcript explains that he was not a Member of Parliament, he was already suspected, Csaba Tóth is still ahead of suspicion, because he is protected by his immunity, so Csaba H., a suspect Csaba Horváth was deputy mayor between 2006 and 2009, and since 2014 he was a member of the Capital Assembly. [[16.50]] The case goes back to 2016, they want to introduce and introduce a paid parking system in Zugló [[It's an interrogation from the ruling parties.]] they were looking for an economic company capable of carrying out the task and are willing to transfer part of the profits to suspects Csaba Tóth and Csaba Horváth. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties, among them: Oops!]] For this purpose, Csaba Horváth will present to Csaba Tóth Zsolt F., Zs. F., who is BKV Zrt. in 2000. Former Head of Information Technology [[Agnes Kunhalmi: What's his name?]] And I'm reading the facts of the case with Csaba Horváth, a suspect. On 14 January 2016, a kft. named SIS Parking was founded, and on this kft. this F. Zs had a significant influence. The facts describe the functions which these two gentlemen have fulfilled because I am now saying, without repeating this, what the Attorney General has said both had the opportunity to assert their influence in this procedure. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: What are there?!]] The suspect Csaba Tóth and Csaba H. used it to contact this F. Zs. Mr President, it is clear here that there are two procurement procedures, the first is only about the acquisition and commissioning of vending machines, and another procedure, a later procedure, is about the operation of this installed system. According to the preliminary agreement, F. Zs was already expected to provide the data, the technical, economic and IT conditions that this company had or its potential subcontractors had, obviously in order to tailor the terms of the public procurement procedure to the image of the company. This was also the case, during the procedure, with these data F. Zs. delivered to the gentlemen, and the procurement procedure was drawn up accordingly. Obviously, there were also conditions for this, and they agreed with F. Zs to ask for a fixed amount for the installation and installation of the machines and to request a specific share of the profits generated during the operation. In the first procedure, on 15 March 2017, the company paid HUF 10 million to Csaba Tóth representative, 10 million on 1 July, 11 million 250 thousand on 12 August. In the second procedure, i.e. in the operating procedure, after the kft. Obviously, he won this activity, the prosecutor's transcript states that between autumn 2017 and autumn 2019 he handed over HUF 10-15 million per month, but at least HUF 250 million to Csaba Tóth in the condominium where he lives, some kind of conference room open to the community... i.e. these actions took place in the parlor of the community room open in the condominium. What proves the procedure? the motion. Suspect statements, witness statements, instrumental statements [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] monitoring, open source data collection and the procedure, by public procurement procedure (The President bells.) the acquisition of related tangible assets. The immunity committee discussed this case on Monday, Csaba Tóth was present, and you requested the suspension of your immunity. The immunity committee unanimously recommends that the Parliament suspend the immunity of the Member on the matter in question. Thank you for your attention. [[Intercoms and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2022-03-10-1-152	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Congressman Csaba Tóth has the opportunity [[György Balla intervenes.]] to speak, but he is not in the room. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] So we're gonna let that go. [[Intercoms from the opposition. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, It's time for a decision. I would remind you that the committee has taken a position to suspend the immunity of the congressman from the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of Csaba Tóth. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament suspended the immunity of Csaba Tóth with 175 unanimous votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of our decision. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. I thank you for your cooperation today and during the four-year cycle. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Some congressmen are leaving the room.]] (Sunning: 16.56-16.58) President: István Jakab Note: László Földi és Dezső Believing)
u2022-03-10-1-153	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. Anyone who wishes not to take part in the meeting, please leave the meeting room quietly. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, Péter Jakab and György Szilágyi, representatives of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What do you think of this, Prime Minister?" It's an address. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, the Minister who led the Prime Minister's Office was entitled to reply. I ask the Members, they accept the person who is responding, or they ask the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2022-03-10-1-154	I'll take it.
u2022-03-10-1-155	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-03-10-1-156	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I wanted to ask Viktor Orbán, but, as we know, Viktor Orbán, if he can, he is hiding from the questions. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: He's in Paris! Dr. Bence Rétvári: He's in Paris! Hiding in Paris?]] that's why he doesn't dare argue, because before an election, if he doesn't hide [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] then he would be willing to participate in a presidential candidate debate; he would not be involved in this. [[Dr. László György Lukács intervenes.]] I wanted to ask him how he appreciated his work for the past 12 years, his work as well as the work of his government, because Hungary has become the poorest country in Europe in the last 12 years. [[17.00]] Government debt in the heavens, inflation is huge, the forint is deteriorating to an unprecedented extent, a euro is already 400 forints at a time when he was not in power, he said that the government is responsible for the fact that, if the forint is so expensive, and this also means that wages and pensions are getting less and less worth, everyday life is becoming more and more difficult. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Is that why you canceled the minimum wage?]] The country has been indebted to Russia and China, and you have failed from crisis management: unfortunately, more than 40,000 of our countrymen died during the Covid epidemic, thanks to your failure to handle the crisis normally and to destroy health care before it. We have also become the most corrupt country in Europe, which the Union has grown tired of, and is holding back 6,000 billion because they are not sending the catch-up money to Lőrinc Mészáros, István Tiborcz and the family of the Prime Minister, but to Hungary and the Hungarian people. You are ruining the rule of law and democracy, and one of the best examples is the election of the President of the Republic today. You have been accused of a criminal offence and voted against people in a rule of law who are likely to be punished for serious prison years: György Simonka [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Now laugh.]] Happy István and Pál Völner voted today. So you destroyed this country. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] and I wanted to ask the Prime Minister whether he should take responsibility for this. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-03-10-1-157	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2022-03-10-1-158	I wish that man had hoped, Mr President, honourable Parliament, honourable Member, that at the last parliamentary session the opposition might be able to go above average, but, in fact, this is the closest time to the elections, and therefore this is not a reasonable expectation from you, and therefore from the Member, it has brought what we have heard from you many times over the last few weeks, months and years. But just because a lie is repeated over and over again doesn't make it true. I would therefore like to inform the Member of the fact that the minimum wage in Hungary today was more than the average wage for the governance of your ally, Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks.]] This shows how far this country has made progress. At that time, Mellar was no longer our fellow Member because he was illegally removed, but KSH also showed that it was enough to go back and see that today the minimum wage was more than the average wage in Hungary in the last year of Ferenc Gyurcsány. I would like to draw your attention to public debt, and it is also true that inflation is being studied by the Jobbik faction and the left-wing opposition as part of it is Jobbik as well. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] data that today governs European countries as inflation figures in the world. You will see that in Hungary, thanks to the fact that we have acted against inflation with a gas stop, interest, a food stop and a resistop, even the truly high inflation value is among the best in Europe, because if the congressman has not noticed, we have a war next door. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: He wasn't tall before, was he?]] As well as the rise in inflation in Europe, the emergence of a coronal virus alone has been associated with an increase in inflation. The difference is that when the left was on the government, the European economy was doing well, and here economic growth was zero, in the event of the global economic crisis it was minus 7 percent, and now it was plus 7 percent economic growth. It's not worth turning back. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-03-10-1-159	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2022-03-10-1-160	Thank you very much. One observation: the petrol stop has otherwise become a petrol stop in Hungary. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] But let's not do that. And I would recommend to you, Minister, that you try to find out about the fact that the Orbán family has over the past twelve years had twelve times its assets, that a friend of Mr.Lőrinc Mészáros, Viktor Orbán, has become a dollar millionaire. Utilization, luxurious [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Bravo!]] Borkai, sex, drugs, corruption, stolen immeasurable fortunes and tooth and nail attachment to power, which is what Fidesz is most characterized today. There are no two Fidesz whispers to you, Matthew Kocsis, no two Fidesz! [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] You are constantly sharing with these people, and by the way, the Hungarian people are sick of it. That is why they will stand behind the candidates for Hungary in the Unity on 3 April, and with their vote Viktor Orbán and his band will be expelled from power. On April 3rd, there will be a change of government [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] And you guys are gonna have to think about doing well for the last 12 years. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Where's the trunk party? Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-03-10-1-161	Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2022-03-10-1-162	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, On the one hand, I ask you not to accuse Mr. Kocsis of whispering to me, because this has been the case since high school, we were classmates in Lónyay, so there hasn't been any change in this in the last twenty-some years. [[Defiance.]] As far as the petrol stop is concerned, we would like to ask the public, through you, to act together, both in the face of rumors from the authorities and from us as Members of Parliament. But of course, as the Chairman-CEO of MOL has made it clear, MOL can in itself provide full Hungarian capacity. It is important that there is no abuse of the cheapest petrol prices in Europe. But the fact that the price of diesel is not 700 forints in Hungary today, but 480 is the result of a government decision, and yet it is the result that while your allies sold and played MOL to the Russians, we bought it back, and so now we have the gas stop. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] to enforce it. And by the way, we just gave Csaba Tóth, your ally, your sponsor's immunity to corruption so much. [[György Szilágyi:...just like Völner! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-03-10-1-163	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Attila Mesterházy, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister an immediate question:. How much longer can this continue? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Levente, Minister of State, was entitled to reply. I ask the congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-164	Yes, thank you.
u2022-03-10-1-165	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-03-10-1-166	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the Secretary of State a few questions about the war, as we have seen in recent times that the government has started a foreign policy change and indeed supports NATO and the European Union's decisions on binding matters, but it is still difficult to break away from old friendship and the habit of making such a question a campaign theme. That is why I would ask the Secretary of State when, as a symbol of change, your boss, Mr Péter Szijjártó, will return his medal of merit for Friendship, because the Minister said that this does not have any significance, so it makes no sense to send it back. I see otherwise: if this award does not have any significance for you, then perhaps that is why it should be sent back, because it is symbolic here in the country, NATO and the European Union. My other question, Mr Secretary of State, is whether Hungary intends to continue to block the official meetings of the Ukrainian-NATO Committee at ministerial level in NATO, or there will be some change in this, especially in view of the war situation, the aggression that has developed in recent weeks. On the same point, I would also ask how we would change our position that we have also blocked Ukraine's accession to the NATO Cyber Defence Excellence Centre. Does the Hungarian Government change its position in this regard? I mean, I think that all of these would be steps that would help resolve the conflict, and we would also show Ukraine that we do have debates with Ukraine about minority law, language law, representation of minorities, which we all agree on here, in this Parliament, but in such a war situation, the Hungarian government should change this policy. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2022-03-10-1-167	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State, Hungarian Levente, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-168	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We have talked for hours about this issue here in the House today, but I am very happy to repeat the items that I described earlier on the situation, namely that there is a very sharp line between peace and war. So 14 days ago there was a situation, there is a situation today, and I think that, because of the changed circumstances, responsible decisions must be taken both in terms of our diplomatic activity and in the context of a completely new relationship between the decisions on Hungary's security situation. At the same time, we are helped by the fact that in times of peace and war we are guided by a completely clean standard, and that is the Hungarian interest. [[17.10]] In times of peace and in times of war, the only thing we look at is what serves the safety of this country, what serves the safety of Hungarian people, what serves to heat the homes in Hungary, we can heat the public institutions and keep the Hungarian industry alive. Honourable Congressman, The Hungarian government has never blocked NATO and Ukraine from engaging in dialogue, this is a misunderstanding, and in recent days concrete decisions have been made, as our country supports Ukraine's accession to the NATO Cyber Protection Centre, which is now well known. Our country supported the alliance to grant so-called enhanced partnership status, and Hungary also supported and even initiated Ukraine and the European Union to start accession negotiations as soon as possible. As far as the medal is concerned, honourable Member, I must say that in the last 14 days, this has not been the priority to deal with medals and, as has been said earlier, for example, university honors, I have kept a long list of what has to do with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. More than that, I think there have been more primary tasks. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] But as far as the medal is concerned, I can only refer once again to the fact that a very sharp line separates peace from war, which is also true in this case, and if we are discussing the previous relationship system that we maintained with the Russians, then please ask Ferenc Gyurcsány, he can tell us a lot about it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-03-10-1-169	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2022-03-10-1-170	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, Then we will not change this as much as we should, and let me recommend to you that, indeed, peace is a great deal separate from war, for example, that one is peace and the other is war. But I think that there is a point in symbolic action, and that the security of a neighbouring country is likely to also serve the security of the minority living there. And when you mention Ferenc Gyurcsány, I'd like to remind you that Putin wasn't this Putin. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It was another Putin.]] who invaded the territory of the neighbouring and sovereign country, but was a different Putin during this period, so there is no comparison between the two, and I would like to finish my comment here. Since this is my last comment in Parliament, I would like to thank the Parliament for its work, what I have been able to do here with you. We had a lot of fights, we argued a lot, and I basically enjoyed these debates, even when we agreed, even when we didn't agree. I also thank my fellow Members on the opposition side for their support, for their help, and for the next four years Parliament will continue its work without me. Thank you all for this opportunity, especially for the voters. Thank you very much.
u2022-03-10-1-171	Thank you very much, Congressman. I wish you every success in your further work. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2022-03-10-1-172	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Member, thank you for your cooperation, thank you for your work. Let me briefly respond to what has been said. Hungary is not only taking symbolic steps, but it has taken very concrete decisions on how to help tens and hundreds of thousands fleeing from Ukraine to Hungary. The Hungarian people, I think, showed a very exemplary cooperation and solidarity when they now supported these refugees with hundreds of millions of forints and gave accommodation to thousands of people. The Hungarian government is sending a lot of aid to Ukraine. The Hungarian government has offered to provide full health care to 130 children in Ukraine. And I would like to mention for a long time the concrete steps that the Hungarian government and the Hungarian people have taken in relation to the difficult situation of Ukraine that go far beyond gestures. Of course, our debates with Ukraine will not be brought to an end by war, but they are now being pushed into the background, and we are now focusing on how we can help and how we can put an end to this terrible conflict as soon as possible, so that Hungary and the region can live in peace, because this is the main responsibility of the policy. Thank you very much, and once again, I wish you the best. Thank you for your service. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-03-10-1-173	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Why have teachers been pushed into a livelihood crisis? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás has given the Prime Minister the right to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks for the answer in person. [[Gergely Harvesto: I accept, yes.]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-03-10-1-174	Dear House, Dear Minister, The fact is that I would like to talk about the issue of restricting the right of teachers to strike, which is also a matter for Prime Minister or Minister instead. You'll be able to answer it in substance, that's what I'm hoping you'll want, of course I don't know. I have been so proud for a long time that I myself am a teacher, and I have worked as a teacher for a long time, as I do today, when I see that our teachers stand in line for their rights, they stand in line for their right to strike, like all other workers, and they have the opportunity to act for their own interests. Because what's amazing and unacceptable is that this government believes that, on the grounds of the epidemiological situation, it can restrict the right to strike, including teachers' right to strike, in the framework of an unlimited mandate requested on this basis. At the time when they stopped wearing masks, when they withdrew from the absurd mandatory vaccination rules, they thought that the teachers' strike, well, that's an epidemiological risk that should be restricted by regulation. This is outrageous and amazing. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Minister, let me be clear, educators are on strike not because they are opposition agents or whatever they are, as your fellow minister has always said, but because a career-starting educator today earns little more than the amount of the minimum wage, a net HUF 173 thousand. You should make a living, rent an apartment, start a family. My question is, then, when will the unconstitutional and absurd provision restricting teachers' right to strike be withdrawn and when will they begin meaningful negotiations with teachers' representatives.
u2022-03-10-1-175	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Prime Minister of Gergely Gulyás.
u2022-03-10-1-176	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As far as the legal question raised by the Member is concerned, I can say there that the Member did not mention that there had been a pedagogical strike a few weeks ago, and that this pedagogical strike was later decided by a court that it was illegal. Don't get me wrong, it's not the responsibility of teachers, it's the responsibility of interest organisations, trade unions, who have involved some of the teachers in an illegal strike. This, I think, is irresponsible. I think that everyone who is a member of the Hungarian Parliament must stand on the ground of law, and we may not like some court judgments I can mention a nice number of them, but they must be respected and accepted. Therefore, first of all, the fact that a person is planning an illegal strike is not acceptable and that is wrong. On the other hand, if you read the judgment that the court has made in this matter, then it is clear to the government that the government must set the limits between which a pedagogical strike may continue. That's what happened. Undoubtedly, thanks to God, the immediate threat of the epidemic seems to be a little further away, we are not beyond the epidemic, but its immediate threat would be further away, but let's be honest, the last two years have tested teachers, parents and children during the coronal virus epidemic. The most practical thing is that teachers don't want to punish children and parents. So, of course, the right to strike is granted to all teachers within the legislative framework. However, most recently, even in the case of a later illegal strike, about four fifths of teachers who are likely to agree with the demands that the government agrees that we want to pay higher salaries are planned for the coming years accordingly. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I think it's better for teachers to have a civilian government and stay in the country than for the left-wing government to take power, but one thing is for sure, four fifth of the teachers didn't take the strike last time. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-03-10-1-177	Thank you very much, Minister. I give the floor back to Congressman Gergely Arató.
u2022-03-10-1-178	In any case, thank you for answering at least the question on the merits of your colleagues as Secretary of State, even if your answer is outrageous and unacceptable. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Because the fact is, Minister, that you are restricting a fundamental right in a regulation. The reason why the court said the strike was illegal was because you were stalling until you were born in the time of the necessary judgments. [[17.20]] Your government, yes. They didn't negotiate, and they did various legal tricks. And you didn't answer the most important question, when the situation of teachers would be better. I will answer for you: if you become a government that takes it seriously and treats teachers and teachers' unions as partners. But it won't be your government, it'll be the new democratic government after 3 April.
u2022-03-10-1-179	Thank you very much, Congressman. The rejoinder is also due to the Minister.
u2022-03-10-1-180	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The fact is that the right to strike, like the vast majority of the rights guaranteed in the Constitution, is not an unlimited and not an unlimited right, so the court decision you referred to, which stated the unlawful nature of the previous educator strike, said that these frameworks must be defined by the government or determined by the Parliament... [[Gergely Arató: The Parliament must determine.]] It depends on the fact that it has to be defined within a legal framework. We did this, and I think these rules are in line with the legitimate need for parents and students not to be punished by teachers in any way. The question of when it will be better for teachers: surely if Hungary has a civil government and there will be a Hungarian government. We didn't take a month's wages from teachers. [[Gergely Harvestó: You didn't give me 50 percent.]] As you have taken me away, and by the way, only between 2013 and 17 against what you claim was a 50 percent wage increase, as there has been a 20 percent wage increase in the last two years, in the face of all economic difficulties. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] We accept that this is not enough for teachers compared to the country [[The president's ringing again.]] [[The president's ringing again.]] as regards salaries, they deserve a raise, which is why we promised to use EU funds (the President's bell rings again). ) three times a 10 percent increase in teacher's wages will be provided. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-03-10-1-181	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes and Krisztina Hohn, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who takes responsibility, Prime Minister? In response to the Prime Minister's absence, Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, gave him the right to reply. I ask Congresswoman to accept the Minister's right to reply. [[Miklós Soltész: He waits for the Minister.]]
u2022-03-10-1-182	Sure. We're not waiting for him. Of course, I accept the response.
u2022-03-10-1-183	Then I give the floor to Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn.
u2022-03-10-1-184	Thank you very much for the floor. By the way, ladies and gentlemen of the government, do you remember that you filed the mouth lock bill? This is applied not only to us, but also to themselves. Dear Minister, Dear Parliament, There's a campaign, everyone knows it, and on April 3rd, the electorate will give an opinion on our work, your work, the work of all of us, the work of the government. I think it is very important that not only in the polling booth, but also in the streets, during the discussions, in the various forums. Therefore, whatever the composition of the next government, the next parliament, whoever will be sitting here, I urge them to send a message to the future to pay more attention to the problems of Budapest's agglomeration. I ask you to make sure that healthy drinking water is at last everywhere in Great Tarcsa; that the bypass road in Gödöllő is finally built that has been waiting for you for 12 years; and that we can help that kind of agglomeration overpopulation by helping us to take measures that will reduce the traffic passing there, even bypassing the road, as I have just said. Several settlements are affected by the fact that the sewage system cannot support many residents, and action is needed in this regard. But I could list several settlements of the agglomeration, not just from this area, but from elsewhere. These people expect solutions, through their representatives, but in any forums, even through mayors, they make requests, legitimate requests, requests that must be made with regard to decisions, laws, calls for proposals. And I would ask the next parliament to pay close attention to these, because the agglomeration settlements will soon be unlivable. Thank you very much.
u2022-03-10-1-185	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office.
u2022-03-10-1-186	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I can answer very briefly, because I fully agree with everything you have said. So the thing is, if we look at the evolution of the population in Pest County, we see that the former village settlements or even villages have now become large settlements of urban size, with a thousand problems. I think we have been able to do a lot in the years that we left behind so that, in particular, kindergartens and crèches, kindergarten and crèches, can be expanded. We paid special attention to the county of Pest in this regard, although I think we have achieved a respectable result throughout the country. There is no doubt a need to expand schools, no increase in school children of the same magnitude as in Pest County. And it is also very important that the development resources that are available help to get from the agglomeration to Budapest as quickly as possible and as convenient as possible, if you will, to make it the most environmentally friendly. To this end, we have made a very important decision, and this is the fact that Pest County has been separated from Budapest as a development district. Pest county has suffered so far that, due to the GDP power of Budapest, it could hardly count on EU funds under EU rules, since the EU average in Budapest was 151 percent of GDP; by separating Pest County, EU funds were opened to Pest County over the next seven years. These should be used well. And I agree that on 3 April and after that, our task is to accept the will of the people, to congratulate the winner, and then to use the national resources in a much more favourable framework for Pest County. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] and the resources that we have from the European Union. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-03-10-1-187	Thank you very much, Minister. I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return.
u2022-03-10-1-188	Thank you very much for your answer. However, it is very important that not only the development of Pest county settlements or their problems can be addressed, but also by making the countryside more livable. So that you do not feel that you have to move to Pest County to have a better quality of life, to earn more or to find more jobs, if any. It is very important that the areas that break down need to be developed much more intensively and pay much more attention to them, because the countryside must remain livable, it cannot be allowed to depopulated, where appropriate, and to move to counties that are already overcrowded, to areas that are already very overcrowded. So this is the other part, which I think is very important. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-189	Thank you, Congresswoman. You have the opportunity to respond in return, Minister.
u2022-03-10-1-190	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We fully agree that there is a great deal to be done in any way to ensure that rural lifestyles do not mean that public services can be achieved in any way in a lower quality. She also referred to the importance of this. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the three years behind us, since 2019 there have been 1200 small settlements, which are obviously the result of the Hungarian village programme. So I do not think that the government will not make mistakes or do everything perfectly, but that in the Hungarian villages a series of improvements have been made I know that this congresswoman was also an active participant, and there has been constructive cooperation with the government in this regard, which the settlements have been waiting for for for for years or even decades. We would also like to continue the program of the Hungarian village under all circumstances. The goal is to really live in the countryside [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] be of the same quality in every sense as being in a big city today with services. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-03-10-1-191	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Tamás Mellár, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:. What is going on? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr András Tállai has given him the right to reply. I would like to ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding.
u2022-03-10-1-192	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2022-03-10-1-193	Thank you very much. Congressman Tamás Mellar is the one who has the floor. [[17 .30]]
u2022-03-10-1-194	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, A few days ago, 400 forints had to be given for a euro. The inflation rate in February was 8.3 percent, while food increased by 10-15 percent. According to experts, we have not yet reached the peak of inflation, which will be somewhere around 9 and 10 percent in the coming months. Our budget spent almost half of the annual deficit by February. Meanwhile, we are in the last place in the European Union in per capita consumption, and Bulgaria is the only one behind us. Tell me, is this the Fidesz crisis management programme dreamed up by Minister Varga, or is it going to get worse? Over the last 12 years, you have used a huge amount of EU money, the scale of which could best be explained by the fact that it is twice the size of Marshall's aid after World War II. And compared to that, they produced an extensive economic growth that produced a weak, vulnerable economy, a balloon economy that burst during the crisis. Why do I say that? Well, take a look at it. In the last few days, the forint in our area has deteriorated to the greatest extent. The only thing worse than that is the Russian ruble. Then, most importantly, the stock exchange index in Hungary, the exchange index in Budapest, has deteriorated in the region, and to a worse extent, the Russian stock exchange index has deteriorated. By the way, international investors seem to know exactly who Putin's strategic ally is, because this is how it was priced, and, of course, inflation is one of the highest of us. I would therefore like to ask you how the government has a serious anti-inflationary policy, and, if there is, why is it hiding it, why is it not introducing it, because it would have absolutely time. Thank you very much.
u2022-03-10-1-195	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2022-03-10-1-196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You know that the Hungarian economy is small and open, and everything that happens in the international market or in the world responds quickly and in a large succession. It is characterized by small, open economies. In such a situation, investors should always make the right decision, because if they miss, they may suffer serious losses. I think that, like other countries, the whole world is struggling with the exchange rate problem, the inflation problem, of course Hungary is one of them. I believe that with this war situation, there is a series of responsible measures and economic policies on one side, this is for the government and an irresponsible thinking on the other. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] You can laugh at this, just imagine that if Péter Márki-Zay were Prime Minister of Hungary, and by now, would he carry out what he said about sending soldiers and weapons to Ukraine, then would we now be talking about the percentage of inflation in Hungary? What we're talking about is, unfortunately, we're gonna have to deal with a significant exchange rate change? Or we could talk about, by the way (Bence Tordai interrupts. ) are standing in line at gas stations, and can they serve everyone? We wouldn't talk about that. Wells would be closed, people would be in fear and uncertainty. This is the difference, this is the Hungarian situation today. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-03-10-1-197	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor back to Congressman Tamás Mellar.
u2022-03-10-1-198	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I agree with Mr Tállai State Secretary that, indeed, Hungary is a small, open country, this is certainly the case, but the Czech Republic is also a small, open country and Romania is also a small, open country, so this argument does not come here now and they have not been so strongly affected by this crisis. So inflation in Hungary is no longer months, but has been high for years and one of the highest, and you have not introduced an anti-inflationary economic policy. You have run an overheated economy so far, and it would now be absolutely necessary not only to launch an anti-inflationary policy for you, but also a general crisis management programme, a crisis management programme that would clearly focus on both monetary and fiscal policies. And that's what I've been trying to ask you, if there is such a policy, then why haven't you started using it? Please try to answer that as well. Thank you very much.
u2022-03-10-1-199	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have the opportunity to rejoin the Secretary of State.
u2022-03-10-1-200	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, It is difficult to understand your thinking, because today you did not vote for a political statement condemning the war and asking it to end as soon as possible; you abstained. As far as inflation is concerned, it is not right, because inflation is not the largest in Hungary, there are at least four such countries, two of them, Lithuania and Estonia already have inflation above 10 per cent, and Slovakia is also above 8 per cent, and Luxembourg, Spain, the Netherlands and Slovenia are 7 per cent, which is the same category as Hungary. In these countries, however, there were no measures such as those in Hungary. But let me return to your thinking: your party partner has asked that the gas taps be closed so that Hungary does not get gas. Do you know what that would mean? The entire Hungarian economy and industry would stop, people would not be able to heat and heat their homes. That's what we're arguing about here. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Not that inflation is now one tenth more or two tenths more, but what your thinking is about dealing with the crisis and what the government's thinking is, and this is fundamentally different. Thank you very much.
u2022-03-10-1-201	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Gyula Budai, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: what else does the Left sweeping the Town Hall scandal under the carpet have in his account? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman Gyula Budai.
u2022-03-10-1-202	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Minister, According to press information, Csaba Horváth, the MSZP mayor of Zugló took over 3-4 million forints of bribery three times in a café in Kálvin Square from the representative of the company that won the district parking tender. In the meantime, Csaba Horváth, mayor, Csaba Tóth, the district's MSZP parliamentary representative, also took over tens of millions of forints of bribery money. Csaba Tóth's immunity has been suspended today by the House on the motion of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office. During the ongoing investigation before the Central Investigator's Attorney General Csaba Tóth, MP Csaba Horváth, who was the current mayor of Zugló, in Zugló, was looking for an economic company to operate the planned paying parking system, from which half of the profits were claimed. When we think that the corruption on the left is over, we are still shocked that according to press information Zsolt Fuzik was not only involved with Csaba Horváth and Csaba Tóth, but Ferenc Baja, former Minister of the Horn Government, also visited Zsolt Fuzik to pay him HUF 30 million in order to maintain the contract for the BKV IT system. Also, according to press reports, Zsolt Molnár MSZP MP did not miss the business either, as Zsolt Fuzik gave him an additional HUF 40 million in the V. district Olympic Park to maintain the contract. The parking contract in Zugló was signed by Gergely Christmas in 2016. Before the municipal elections in 2019, the mayor said about Csaba Horváth that he at least had the brains to know what to go to jail for. Dear Minister, I'm asking you, what else do you have in your account for the left-wing majority sweeping the City Hall scandal under the rug? Thank you for your reply.
u2022-03-10-1-203	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás.
u2022-03-10-1-204	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We can see that, although the left has long since lost the possibility of governance, not only are there continuing corruption scandals in the period 2002-2010, but also in the municipalities where the left came to power in 2019 or even earlier, corruption cases arise again and again. [[17.40]] And here we are talking about a case that happened during the period of the mayor of Gergely Christmas, elected in 2014, which is now the subject of suspicion, and the prosecution's position is clear. We see that on several occasions significant amounts have been accepted by socialist politicians, bribes that assume the operation of an entire corruption system. Unfortunately, the left has learned nothing, and has not forgotten anything compared to what he did and did in this country in the hands of government power between 2002-2010, and unfortunately, if we look at the affairs of Budapest, the capital city in recent years, the cases that have taken place since 2019, under the mayorship of Gergely Christmas, we can rightly say that corruption is a renaissance in the capital. Earlier, during the period of István Tarlós, no one contested that the Mayor was fair and that no corruption charges were raised in connection with the capital, but now we know from a speech by former Prime Minister Gordon Bajnai that the demands of each of the six parties must be met that there is a commission system in the capital. I think that is why, of course, the municipalities, the capital, but if we could not fix this in 2024, the country must be kept away. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-03-10-1-205	Thank you, Minister. You have the chance to rejoin the congressman.
u2022-03-10-1-206	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Then let's see the coalition of Péter Márki-Zay's purity. Csaba Czeglédy has a $6.5 billion budget fraud going on. He's Szombathely's DK candidate. Then there's the sale of City Hall, the metropolitan real estate dogs, and another XVI. district real estate scandal: MSZP XVI. The sale of his district headquarters. Then there is the momentous Czech Katalin, the draining of nearly five billion European Union funds. Then we arrived at the parking scandal in Zugló, where the mayor of the district and his parliamentary representative were involved. Ferenc Baja took over 30 million HUF bribes for the IT acquisition of BKV, while Zsolt Molnár, party director of MSZP, took over 40 million HUF bribes. Well, my dear House, this is what the coalition of Péter Márki-Zay clean looks like. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-03-10-1-207	Thank you very much, Congressman Gyula Budai. I'm giving the Minister the opportunity to respond in return.
u2022-03-10-1-208	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, Indeed, we see that the methods have not changed, but let us be honest, this is no wonder, because the people have not changed either, so as the government of Ferenc Gyurcsány was characterised by corruption, the destruction of the country and the bankruptcy of the state, the same people are the determining ones on the left, and they want to regain power. No one disputes, even the left side itself, that today the strongest party in the left party alliance is Ferenc Gyurcsány's party, in this party the one-man power still prevails, which was also characterized by Ferenc Gyurcsány during his reign and which could be used for both good and evil. But in his case, it has not been possible to make good, and there is no less of corruption than there is much more than how few left-wing politicians exercise public authority today. This also warns us that there is no way to look back and turn around, but to move forward. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-03-10-1-209	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Róbert Dudás, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: instead of taking action, the solution is a tax reduction. It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Minister Gergely Gulyás was entitled to reply. I'll ask the congressman. [[Róbert Honkers nodds.]] But he already warns me that yes, he accepts the person of the responder. It is therefore for Mr Róbert Dudás to take the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-210	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, For the past decade and a half, we have heard nothing but that the Hungarian economy is strong and, in fact, so strong that we will soon not only catch up with Austria, but even circle the whole West. We have had to face the last few days, in recent weeks, because there has been an unfortunate war situation in the neighbouring country, Ukraine, that the first real pressure that has hit the Hungarian economy has also collapsed. We can talk about the exchange rate of the euro here, but not only about the exchange rate compared with the euro, but also about the Swiss franc, the dollar, but we also have to mention that the Hungarian forint has deteriorated compared to the currencies and currencies of the eastern countries. There is a shortage of fuel supply, and price increases in addition to inflation have never been seen. For the first time, six months ago, I suggested to Prime Minister that the VAT on fuels should be reduced. You voted three times. We submitted to the Parliament that VAT on basic foods, like in neighbouring countries, and even in Poland, was not limited, but also released; so not only did they lower the VAT on basic foods, but they released it in full. You rejected it. We requested in the form of a decision proposal to reduce the VAT on firewood from 27 per cent to 5 per cent. The Economic Committee has rejected this proposal on the ground that this is not topical. Well, I beg you, if there's no actuality to this, then why now? ! Well, prices are skyrocketing, inflation is skyrocketing, but there will still be gas prices; prices are increasingly needed to cut prices. Minister, I appeal to you, through you, to the government, with the respectful request that the tax reduction in these areas be introduced immediately, because it is in the fundamental interest of all Hungarians.
u2022-03-10-1-211	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás.
u2022-03-10-1-212	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You have a candidate for Prime Minister on the left. He is opposed to the reduction of overhead prices, the Resisttop, which contributes to the fact that inflation is still not among the highest in Hungary. He opposed the price stop introduced for certain basic foods, opposed the minimum wage, and opposed the petrol stop. In your opinion, if these measures were not in force today, how much would inflation be? On the other hand, my fellow Member, I accept that you in rural forums, without the chance of answering, also make statements that are very far from real, but at least do not do so in Parliament. Indeed, inflation has increased everywhere in the world. It has also grown everywhere in Europe, because there is a war in our immediate neighbourhood, and the recovery from a coronal virus epidemic in itself has an inflation-enhancing effect. Hungarian consumer prices increased by 8.3 percent in February 2022. The period of moderate inflation in previous years, moderate inflation before 2021, has ended. But in Lithuania, I would like to refer only to this in the same month, and also to my fellow Member Mellar, who has since passed away, to his attention, there was 13.9% inflation, 12,4 percent inflation in Estonia, 9.6% inflation in Belgium, 8.6 percent in Latvia; in the Czech Republic, we still have only January data, it was 8.8, much more than in Hungarian, Poland 8.7. There has been higher inflation everywhere, my fellow Member, in all these countries, simply because we have introduced the pricestops that allow us to lower prices in some areas, thanks to which Hungarian citizens pay the lowest gas price, the second lowest energy price and the lowest petrol price in Hungary today. Non-Hungarians are also trying to abuse this. Of course, where there is a need to help, tax cuts are an option, and we are constantly looking at this. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Unfortunately, the rate of excise duty is already below the lowest possible level established by the European Union. We're trying to do more on this case. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-03-10-1-213	Thank you, Minister. You have the chance to rejoin the congressman.
u2022-03-10-1-214	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, last week I received the answer from Secretary of State Dömötör, in which I asked Mr. Prime Minister when he wished to reduce taxes. It shows that it's not part of their plan. I'm just saying. You mentioned the extent of inflation throughout Europe in which countries; in relation to Hungary 8.3 because we should concentrate on Hungary in the Hungarian Parliament. If you go down to the country and ask people that they feel that inflation is 8.3 percent, they will say that they are not, but 25-30-40 percent. [[17.50]] That's how much food prices have increased. Mr. Secretary, it is not possible to maintain that even though MOL's CEO said that there will be more fuel this weekend, he did not paint a long-term future. Snake lines stand in such a way that, by the way, we add that transport may be jammed, agricultural work may be stalled, and the price freeze of 480 forints for farmers is not even valid, but they can buy it 100 forints more expensive via MOL to the end user. Prime Minister [[Gergely Gulyás: Minister only!]] If there is no step in these areas, if there is no tax reduction, there will be supply problems, and each person will feel it on their own. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2022-03-10-1-215	Thank you, Congressman. You have the opportunity to respond in return, Minister.
u2022-03-10-1-216	Thank you for the floor. Dear fellow Member, Once again, the level of excise duty is still below the lowest rate set by the European Union, but, of course, if necessary, we are ready to further reduce this. As far as the petrol price is concerned, the cheapest price in Europe is petrol. Unfortunately, many people are alarmed by this crime, and since it has been achieved in many places that everyone is rushing to the gas stations, even if we do not have a war next door, there are still temporary supply difficulties. But the point is, and this is the most important, that, thanks to the fact that, while your allies were so kind and sold MOL to the Russians, we bought it back, MOL is able to produce gas and gasoline that meets the Hungarian monthly demand through the refining station in 100halombatta, which means it is able to produce fuel. As a result, security of supply is guaranteed today. There may be difficulties in some places due to hysteria, partly due to foreign business petrol tourism, but in the long term there will be no problems, and in the short term we are also trying to resolve this issue in a reassuring way. If it weren't for the price stops your Prime Minister's candidate didn't support, inflation would be significantly higher. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-03-10-1-217	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Mr.Lőrinc Nacsa, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. What would happen to the supply of energy to Hungarian families if the left came to power? It's an address. Because of his absence, the Minister authorised Mr. Tamás Schanda as Secretary of State to reply. Congressman, you say you'll accept the person you're responding to. You have the floor, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc.
u2022-03-10-1-218	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, With his irresponsible sentences on the left, he pours oil on the fire day after day, sharpening the already difficult situation. They would send soldiers and weapons to Ukraine, although the Hungarian interest is clear, we will not allow anyone to bring us into the war, the safety of Hungarian people is our first priority. At the same time, the left has come up with amazing and dangerous proposals in the field of energy. They would have the Hungarian people pay the price of the war. They react aggressively and shout when calm and experience are needed. Another irresponsible suggestion from the left has come: they would shut down Russian gas and stop the investment in Paks, cancel the contract with Rosatom. The plans of Gyurcsány and Márki-Zay, which are represented both at home and in Brussels, would cost the Hungarian families and Hungarian businesses an unbearably great extra cost. It should be said that extending sanctions to the energy sector would be a disproportionate burden for people. Let's get this straight. In February 2022, the average price of natural gas was the lowest in Budapest and households paid the second most favourable price for electricity. These results must be protected. Be clear: without the Paks electricity, the price of electricity to be paid by the families would increase four times, and without the Russian gas contract and transport, the gas bill would increase by an average of HUF 26 thousand per month. These are serious money, and this extra cost would be burdened by the left, without any problems, by Hungarian people. Let's not let the left make people pay for the war. That is why I ask the Honourable Secretary of State what would happen to the energy supply of Hungarian families if the left were to take power. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-03-10-1-219	Thank you, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2022-03-10-1-220	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, we cannot allow the price of the war in our neighbourhood to be paid by the Hungarian people, which is what the Left's proposals are about. The Left's proposals threaten not only the safety of Hungary, but also the electricity and gas supply of the Hungarian population, the Hungarian citizens, are constantly putting at risk. The left is demanding, as you said, that sanctions should also apply to the energy sector. Anyone who wants to extend the sanctions to the energy sector, who threatens to shut down the gas, weakens the Hungarian economy, and also weakens the Hungarian forint. In Hungary, oil and natural gas are mostly coming from Russia, and 90% of Hungarian families are using natural gas. These are facts, these are facts. The left has repeatedly demanded the closure of the gas tap in an irresponsible way and the extension of sanctions to the energy sector, while the fact is that they could help the most, not harm Hungary, the forint, the Hungarian economy, if they stopped talking on the left. The demands of the left, the gas isolation, the Paks I and the Paks II. Stopping the project threatens the energy supply of Hungarian families and companies and would drastically increase the price of electricity and gas, with Hungarian families currently spending around HUF 92 thousand in overhead costs rising to more than HUF 350 thousand. That's the left-wing plan. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-03-10-1-221	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have the opportunity to respond in return, Congressman.
u2022-03-10-1-222	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. Over the past few days, Commissioner Timmermans, one of the Socialists' top bureaucrats in Brussels, said that the Russian gas treaty can be stopped if people use less gas and heat less. How do these sentences ring a bell? Well, Péter Márki-Zay, your Prime Minister's candidate, said the same thing about the reduction of the rent, how can we not reduce the rent, we have to heat less, we have to use less gas. So, Socialist Commissioner Timmermans and your candidate for Prime Minister say exactly the same thing, that they would implement exactly the same sanctions in Brussels, and if it were up to you, the energy costs of Hungarian families would be quadrupled. I think that these are dangerous and irresponsible proposals. We need calm now, we need a solid experience, we need a decision, and not the rush, the irresponsibleness, the policy of endangering the Hungarians that you represent, so we ask you to stop making irresponsible statements. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-03-10-1-223	Thank you very much. You have the opportunity to respond in return to Secretary Schanda.
u2022-03-10-1-224	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the left-wing candidate, and especially the left-wing prime minister, constantly emphasizes that he thinks it's foolish to reduce the rent, he thinks it's foolish to have a resisttop, as does the 13th month pension or even the food stop. We must protect the Hungarian people from this, because we do not want to go backwards in time, the left would continue in the same place as under the government of the fallen. It is said that the candidate for Prime Minister of the Left says that our goal is not to stop global prices at the border. This is what we need to protect the Hungarian people from this left-wing policy. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-03-10-1-225	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We will move on to the agenda on issues. Tamás Csányi, representative of Jobbik, wanted to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. How does the government want to help construction companies? It's an address. Mr Tamás Csányi has the floor. [[18.00]]
u2022-03-10-1-226	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, As a result of inflation, international economic impacts and the inaction of government policy, raw materials prices in the construction sector have been enormously loosened. Proposals for amendment of the contract are coming in, and requests for an increase in EU tenders are coming in, because with the originally calculated costs, the contractors can no longer guarantee the implementation of the investment. Just one example, Mr Secretary: the price of wood has increased by 100 percent in the last year. So companies and businesses that receive investments are in a lot of trouble and feel that they are looking for help in vain. Therefore, here, within the walls of Parliament, I wish to be the voice of the companies in distress in the 4th constituency of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County to ask for support in case you hear it. Secretary of State, tell me what a company that won the investment at last year's prices can do. If you want to do the job fairly, you have to take out a loan or you have to live up to your reserves. They may also not be able to keep the commitments entered into in the tender because of the loose raw materials prices, so they may have to make the investment with reduced technical content, which greatly undermines the quality originally envisaged and is not necessarily regular. At the end of the day, they pull out of the work area, putting the local government, the church, in a difficult position when the order is made. These difficult circumstances were created by you, while pretending to move forward this segment of Hungarian society is being pushed back. Businesses have the right to feel that the government has abandoned both the customers in many cases by public or municipal institutions and by the companies that are producing them. My question is, therefore, how the government is trying to curb the price increase in construction raw materials prices and how they intend to help companies in difficulty in the sector. I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2022-03-10-1-227	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2022-03-10-1-228	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You call on the government to represent the left that destroyed the Hungarian economy, the left that hit the economy and families with tax burdens and withdrawals, and drove businesses into a hopeless situation. As a left-wing politician, he spoke of helping companies by not voting for any of the measures that helped Hungarian families, Hungarian companies, in the last two years of the viral crisis. Last year, the construction economy, one of the major economic sectors, was indeed faced with transport disruptions and a sharp price change. This has been the trend all over the world, not only in Europe, but throughout the world, because during the pandemic, global supply chains have been damaged or disrupted, and as the epidemic eased, the investment stopped or postponed has restarted, and the market has suffered a shock demand, which has also resulted in shortages and price increases. The persistent lack of material, honourable Member, has, however, been avoided by means of government measures, with measures that you have not supported as left-wing politicians and which have been constantly attacked, and prices have also been consolidated for certain product types. The construction sector is the sector where employment in Hungary has also increased at the forefront despite the viral crisis. Let's be proud of that. The national civilian government appreciates construction contractors, and we will continue to do so, and we will give you all the help you need. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We will protect your support for home creation from you as well. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-03-10-1-229	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ms Zita Gurmai, Member of the MSZP, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question:. Are you embellishing yourself with someone else's pen? The state relies on volunteers and civilians instead of actually helping to provide refugees! It's an address. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai has the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-230	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The government is constantly proclaiming how much it helps refugees. Viktor Orbán said, I quote, that a refugee arriving in Hungary, with an apology, will not remain unfulfilled. In comparison, it is true that the government boasts of other people's work, because refugees are largely supported by civil and ecclesiastical organisations and volunteers. At least today, the Secretary of State has discussed this. Such is the fidesz division of labour: civilians work, and the Orbán government boasts of their work. But the most cynical thing is that the Fidesz government has mastered the performance of civilians who have been chasing them for years. Let's just say that care for refugees is the least merit of the Orbán government, but rather of the humanity of civil society. These civil society organisations operate major infrastructures, do huge work that actually humiliates the self-polished Fidesz government. If civil and ecclesiastical organisations did not help refugees with information, interpretation, food, transportation and accommodation, then this country would now be in great trouble. The day before yesterday, I was out in the West, and I personally made sure that the civilians were there. I didn't see much of the government's help. However, this cannot remain so at all. It's time for the Fidesz government to drop the propaganda express from Putin and finally take part in the substantive measures. Public asylum needs to be strengthened immediately, as it is estimated that hundreds of thousands more will arrive in our country. There is a need to increase the social system, especially child protection, as tens of thousands of minors are arriving. Mr. Secretary of State said that 130 children's care has been resolved. There's gonna be a lot more than that. This is the chance to do something about protecting children instead of lying posters and lying referendums born on the Russian sample, and it is finally time for the Fidesz government to apologize to the civil sphere for chasing them for years. After all, I would ask why the government is not helping refugees anymore, why are they not helping border authorities? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and why the State does not provide supplies to those arriving at the border and railway stations. And finally, aren't you ashamed of bragging about the work of civilians who have been chasing you for years? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2022-03-10-1-231	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State István György.
u2022-03-10-1-232	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Hungarian government is not running a hate campaign against your claim. On the contrary, you and the left-wing parties that have joined forces with you have been campaigning against the Hungarian government for 12 years. [[A statement from the ruling parties: That's right!]] They are still working on the power of a government that has already destroyed Hungary once, who have deceived Hungarian people and the people who live in Hungary. The government works for the Hungarian people, for the well-being of the people living in Hungary and for those in need of help, recognising that the performance of the nation is determined in every sense by the performance of the Hungarian people and the people and workers living in Hungary in normal everyday life, during the period of the epidemic and during all the negative effects of the nearby war. It is the government performance of the civil government and its actions for the country's prosperity, as well as the performance of the people that together allow the people who want and know to help, the charitable organisations, civil society organisations, local governments, the civilian population and public bodies to combine their performances to help those who are in need of help from Ukraine. What hurts you is that the country is doing well, the government is doing a good job in peacetime and during the epidemic, and now it is also doing a good job in welcoming those fleeing war, and it is bringing together and coordinating the joint work, which is also highly recognised by the rest of the world and the European Union. We respect and acknowledge, support and thank the people for their helpfulness, cooperation and sacrifice, the work of charitable organisations, respect and respect for and thank the work of local governments, civil society organisations and state employees. We support charities and NGOs with billions of forints a year, for example, and we also work to compensate local government efforts. The head of the delegation of the International Organisation for Migration, following yesterday's visit to the Hungarian-Ukrainian border, said: [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the authorities are handling the situation flawlessly and the civilian sector and individuals are passionate about the benefit of refugees. Madam Member, please believe him. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[18.10]]
u2022-03-10-1-233	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question: Why not withdraw the title of honorary citizen of the University of Debrecen from President Putin? It's an address. Mr Zoltán Varga has the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-234	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, You know better than I do that Putin visited Hungary twice in 2017. You know better, because you're the ones who've been following Putin's every move for 12 years. On August 28th, the University of Debrecen donated the Civis Honoris Causa award to Putin. Otherwise, President Putin stayed in Hungary for a total of six hours on this day, and he did not set foot in Debrecen, as you know, and the university's students and former students signed the petition that Vladimir Putin did not respect the facts, oppositions, or democracy, and is therefore unworthy of the title which the university intended for him. And I therefore find it impossible for the Senate of the University to see the award of the title as a necessity, driven by a sudden idea and not by government pressure. Now, the launch of a European war has made the Russian President more worthy of the award, and it is not surprising that the servile Senate of the University has no self-defeating courage to withdraw it. What is more, why it is not urgent for you to improve, at least with such a symbolic step, the catastrophic international perception that you, as Putin's lapdog, have been able to obtain this time in relation to the aggression in Ukraine. Please, Mr Secretary of State, do not refer to the autonomy of the university, to which five years ago when the title was voted the leaders of the university and the rules of the university, that the Russian President did not accept the award, since it is not a shame that he bears this title, but that the Senate voted at all. And for God's sake, don't defend yourself by rescinding what was voted online at an extraordinary senate meeting five years ago. To the point, Mr. Secretary, why is it not embarrassing for you that a person who is legitimately suspected of war crimes bears the honor given to him by your intervention? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
u2022-03-10-1-235	Thank you, Congressman Varga. Dear Parliament, By answering this question, the Prime Minister appointed the Minister for Innovation and Technology László Palkovics, who had asked Mr Tamás Schanda to draft his answer.
u2022-03-10-1-236	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I suggest you read it again, perhaps, perhaps for the first time, try to interpret, perhaps again, perhaps for the first time, the communication published by the University of Debrecen. After all these years, I do not expect you to want to understand and understand these communications, but I am now making an attempt to quote from this communication, which was published by the university several days before the condition of your question in March:. The person whose diploma has not been handed over by the university is not the holder of the title, so he is not entitled to pay it. The Senate will also put its award decision on its agenda at its next regular meeting. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So while you're here protesting in a self-righteous way and on the usual left-wing fake train, the truth is that you left-wing politicians are constantly provoking me. The left would send soldiers and weapons to the war, thus seriously endangering not only Transcarpathian Hungarians, but also Hungary. For us, however, Hungary's safety comes first. We want peace against you and we are on the side of peace. I ask you, honourable Member, not to attack but to support the University of Debrecen, to be proud of it, which, like all our other universities, is actively involved in helping us, collecting donations, accepting and housing refugees, and providing medical assistance. They're actually taking action against you. Shame on you, Congressman. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-03-10-1-237	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, Member of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. How will full health care be equally available to all? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-238	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, There is a huge problem with healthcare throughout the country, including in the Tapio region. More and more specialists are missing, there is no evening, night, weekend duty in a large part of the settlements, and due to traffic difficulties it is very difficult to get to the clinic, and this hinders the diagnosis and the start-up of benefits. The number of unfilled GP districts is increasing dramatically, for example, in the electoral district of Pest No.9 13 646 people have only been replaced. The measures do not keep pace with these, the quality of care is fluctuating. In 2021, human health was characterised by a total reduction in employment of 7,000 people. Thus, for example, the local lung screening in Nagykata has ceased, and the patients are being directed to Monor. These trends, the inefficient functioning of the system, have resulted in an increasing share of private health in the Fidesz era. So if someone wants to get well, they must reach deep into their pockets, not for gratuity money, but for much higher amounts, such as HUF 3 million for a hip replacement or HUF 1 million for a cataract surgery. Secretary of State, how do you plan to resolve the growing shortage of professionals in health care, how do you reduce waiting lists? How do you plan to coordinate the operation of county and urban hospitals and outpatient care, so that everyone at the nearest supply point is given the highest possible time limit so that people do not have to pay their own money for their health? I look forward to your substantive answer.
u2022-03-10-1-239	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2022-03-10-1-240	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Your accurate awareness of health care shows that you posted a picture on Facebook, what the state of the Hungarian social institutions is today, while posting a picture from a hospital near Moscow. So for you, the forgery of images, the fake news, so to speak, is in your practice, doing whatever it takes to collect a few likes. But if you want to talk more about the relationship between health and business, you should first contact your Prime Minister's candidate. You told me not to cost people money on health care, while your own presidential candidate, with whom you're campaigning, with whom you're on posters everywhere in your district, says that sad truth is that every business, I'm calmer when it's a health business than if it's not a business. You said it wasn't good for people to pay for it. And with whom he smiles on the poster, he said that I am calmer if the health care business, who said that only a drastic privateization can help Hungarian health care. You said that people should not go to private service providers, while your own candidate for Prime Minister, with whom you appear on all the flyers, in all the newspapers, in all the election posters, said that you need a drastic privateization. He said it wasn't the devil's idea of a daily allowance and a visitation fee. Meg says that emergency or obstetric care is not needed in rural settlements, small towns, which you probably listed. And his other fellow Member said that 45 percent of hospitals should be closed. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Then what exactly are you talking about here in Parliament? How is it that one minute they say to privatize everything, pay-for-health, and the next thing you know, they're telling people that public health is taking care of people everywhere? We obviously agree with the latter in principle, so we have built 23 new clinics, built 34 new rescue stations, renovated in whole or in part 91 rural hospitals, 54 clinics and 107 rescue stations, honourable Member. In the waiting list reduction program, this year there is an extra HUF 13.6 billion to reduce the waiting lists after the corona virus. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-03-10-1-241	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue, would you like to ask the Prime Minister a question about the government's responsibility for the ruined economic policy? It's an address. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor. [[18.20]]
u2022-03-10-1-242	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, although I do not know who will answer, apparently not the Prime Minister. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: You know, he's in Paris!]] But whoever it is... is it a secretary of state? [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State. So you claim that the forint is a victim of sanctions in Brussels, saying that Brussels and the Hungarian opposition are to blame for the 400 HUF euro, not you, who have been ruling for 12 years with two thirds; not the Orbán government, but Brussels and the opposition. It is hard to believe that you really believe this, and you do not realize that the weak forint is behind the pointless and vile war launched by Putin, a friend of the Orbán government, and the failed economic policy of the past decade. It is difficult for me to believe that you are unaware that the forint has weakened not only against the euro, but also against the Czech crown, the Romanian lei, and even the Ukrainian hryvnia. The increase in food prices was already two figures in January, according to KSH data, and where was the current HUF exchange rate? We all know that the aim of Fidesz economic policy is to weaken the forint, to boost the economy, to replace it [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's what Péter Medgyessy wanted!]] the lack of competitiveness development. This is the reason, and their overspending policy is the weakening of the forint, high inflation and the weakening of the national currency. Government debt last year 42.5 billion It was HUF 11.5 billion (sic!) In other words, this debt has been increased by 37 percent in the last two years alone. Nothing from this huge extra debt has gotten to the population, which has fattened the oligarchs of the Orbán system. We remember when Lőrinc Mészáros, Orbán's cashier, received nearly 18 billion, and then fired 850 people during the outbreak. The price of this misguided economic policy is paid by the Hungarian people, and I have to quote Viktor Orbán, who said that the weaker forint is contrary to the interests of the people, that the weaker forint means a weaker state, and that only weak people can want weak forints. So your government is made up of weak people, but even weak people may have the power to admit it. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I'm sure they made a mistake. Do you take responsibility for your misguided economic policy? Thank you, Mr. President.
u2022-03-10-1-243	Thank you very much, Congressman. By answering this question, the Prime Minister appointed Mr Mihály Varga, Minister of Finance, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, will answer the question.
u2022-03-10-1-244	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, It is not possible to give a thorough answer to this question in two minutes as a continuation of the debate on economic policy, but we can see that there are very serious slippages, untruths, to say, lies in the question. If I may, I would like to point out that the public felt nothing of the economic policy that the government is doing. So here's what I'm gonna tell you. 1 million 361 000 people received a refund in February, 610 billion forints; 2.5 million forints for the 13th month pension supplement, 371,3 billion forints [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] HUF 86 200 in six-month arms money for 276 billion [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] ; Six-month arms money of HUF 276 billion for 86 200 (sic!) . If I add it now (Bence Tordai interrupts.) In the meantime, about 50,000 people in their tax returns asked for their refund, we can see that nearly four million people received it in February alone (Bence Tordai intervenes). A sum of HUF 1257.3 billion. What you claim is that the government's economic policy is not family-centric, non-human-centric, non-worker-centric, that is simply not true; it is not true, and the facts are true. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] And the numbers prove it. But if you'll allow me, you voted today on a political statement about the Russian-Ukrainian war, and interestingly, all three in Parliament did not vote for this statement, in which we have to defend Hungary, that... [[Dr. Gurmai Zita:!]] help Hungarians across the border what is your problem? And I'd say there's ten such points. [[Bence of Turdai: You didn't put the point in it!]] You can laugh at this war and that you do not condemn the Russian-Ukrainian war here in Parliament. Most of Parliament, thank God, doesn't think the way you do. [[Bence of Turdai: We asked for an extraordinary meeting to be condemned, so harder...]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-03-10-1-245	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Attila Tilki, a representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Minister:. What does the Government do to help refugees from Ukraine? Mr Attila Tilki has the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-246	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am the parliamentary representative of a constituency with 24 settlements bordering Transcarpathia and all five border crossing points in my constituency, and we have been on the border for two weeks. It is therefore strange for me that Mrs Gurmai has just told me that the government is not doing anything now, as I can answer her, she is no longer in the room. So, right on the second day, the Prime Minister was present and consulted with the local leaders, who were immediately there in the first hours with the body of representatives, their local aides, and received those who had been forced to leave their country with an unprecedented cooperation. It is possible to talk about Budapest, to come to the countryside and to see how the municipalities worked together, how the humanitarian council worked together, in cooperation with the charitative organizations of the historic churches; how the leaders and subordinates of the county government office work together, who help the mayors and mayors; how volunteers who live in villages, are of Transcarpathian origin, interpret, barely sleep for an hour or two. On the other hand, what does the left do? He'll come and keep saying the stupid thing. The wife of one of Mrs Gurmai's party leaders came to us, Ferenc Gyurcsány's wife, Ferenc Gyurcsány, who permanently wiped his feet into Transcarpathian Hungarians and Hungarians across the border; Péter Márki-Zay, who doesn't even know how much tension he causes in my constituency, or in Transcarpathia, that he would send Hungarian soldiers abroad, send Hungarian soldiers into this war, who doesn't appreciate the danger of surrendering weapons to the country, and what danger he might pose in my constituency, and what danger he might pose. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] during the war. I'm asking the left to come first, stay informed, and then speak. And I'd like to ask the Honourable Secretary of State [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We know how many people will come, and we're prepared for their reception. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-03-10-1-247	Thank you very much, Congressman Attila Tilki. I give the floor to Mr István György, State Secretary.
u2022-03-10-1-248	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, As the Member said, opposition politicians, as we have already been used to, are throwing quite outrageous comments on the government's involvement in helping refugees from Ukraine. The statements made by the left-wing speakers are strongly refuted by foreign organisations, observers' statements, and are also refuted by the head of the International Organisation for Migration, the President and Vice-President of the European Commission. The Hungarian government will give every assistance to those fleeing the war from Ukraine to mention only a few: the government has launched its largest humanitarian action so far, we have sent 30 tons of food, child care and hygiene products, 100 thousand litres of fuel to Transcarpathia. The government has established asylum collection points, we have established assistance points at all border posts of the Hungarian-Ukrainian border, where we provide meals, cleaning facilities, temporary accommodation, spiritual assistance, information about charity organisations, civil society organisations, municipalities and district offices. We have launched the cooperation for the Transcarpathia of the Bridge, so far nearly 600 million HUF has been offered. At the time of crossing the border, the police issue temporary residence permits valid for 30 days; the tax on accommodation is exempt from the tourist tax. The Humanitarian Council was established with the Presidency of Minister Gergely Gulyás. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade shall lead a labour market working group to facilitate early employment. The government now provides another HUF 3 billion to the members of the Charity Council; the government will transfer HUF 1.35 billion to Transcarpathia through the Hungarian Helps programme. The MÁV has introduced the free solidarity ticket; we have opened humanitarian warehouses in Cutefather, the regionally competent government windows are constantly open, government offices are involved in the provision of interpreters and healthcare staff. Refugees can take any vaccine in Hungary. In coordinating the Ministry of Interior, it will also be possible to account for the costs of the municipalities concerned. [[18.30]] What's to be expected, Congressman? [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] We can't tell you that it depends on the length of the war, and the hundreds of thousands of refugees currently present could come in another hundred thousand. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-03-10-1-249	Thank you very much, Mr. István György State Secretary. Dear Parliament, Independent Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. What does she do to doctors who fail patients? It's an address. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm has the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-250	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, From the first period of the coronal virus epidemic, unfortunately, a very significant part of Hungarian society has had personal experience that very large numbers of general doctors and clinic specialists refused to care for their patients, receive patients, examine their medical condition on the basis of their complaints, and hide from the patients. Even the doctors of the nursing home refused to provide the patients personally, so that the heads of the institutions could only solve them by using a neighboring district's home doctor, who made a huge sacrifice in the treatment of their own district, without any extra remuneration. Doctors who fail patients failed to fulfil their professional duties and statutory obligations, thus creating complete distrust of the entire medical community. Meanwhile, a multitude of doctors have been very emotional for two years, providing care for covid patients and all those who are suffering from other diseases and for the women who are parents. Lucky for me, my GP was excellent at keeping up with the Covid epidemic. I myself received hundreds of letters of complaint about the lack of access to GPs and clinic specialists. I even wrote to the mayor in some settlements to make effective arrangements to carry out their duties. I find it difficult to imagine, Mr Secretary, that your office would not have received hundreds of complaints if only my e-mail address had received about three hundred such complaints. The patient log recorded before and since the epidemic shows a perfect follow-up to how many patients were treated by a doctor. After giving my oral question, the Minister ordered that GPs recall patients and respond to e-mails, I think, to alleviate all the bad experiences that you have seen in this system. I would like to ask you that you are willing to order a comprehensive investigation by the Minister in order to discover which GPs and clinic specialists have failed to provide patients with appropriate professional standards. Thank you for listening. [[Ander Balázs applauds.]]
u2022-03-10-1-251	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2022-03-10-1-252	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, You, too, can obviously think about it, Madam honourable Member, that during a pandemic, it is a huge organizing work to organise defence. I think we can be proud of Hungarian doctors, Hungarian nurses, many policemen, social workers and everyone else who contributed to this because it was a very difficult task that could not be prepared for. Yet, the Hungarian people did so. We saw the situations abroad when they were breathing the patients in parking lots when they were taking care of the patients in dining rooms, or in Switzerland, the medical chambers asked that the patients be given pre-destiny before they came to the hospital with a coronal virus. Thank God that we managed to prevent these in Hungary, thank God that protection against the epidemic in Hungary was so well organized that everyone had access to care. Everyone's got supplies. There may have been a doctor who was more active in this, and there were others who were more passive, and within the Medical Chamber, there was the ethical procedure in which to proceed. For those of us who took on the surplus, we tried, say, in the case of general doctors, in the case of doctors who took part in the vaccination during the weekend, to give a significant extra fee of tens of thousands of HUF, precisely to acknowledge their work, so that people can be vaccinated on the weekend. Overall, we are talking about six million people whose vaccinations had to be organised, and this has succeeded, faster than almost any country in the world. If we look at the additional mortality data in 2020, the Hungarian surplus is fortunately below the EU average. If we look at the data from 2021, we are the best of the Visegrád countries, and in Central Europe it is only Slovenia that boasts better data than we are, the other countries have had worse consequences than we have. Let us be proud that we Hungarians, during a pandemic, were able to ensure that everyone was safe and that there were no reports of Hungary, such as pictures of other countries, where even cancer patients were not treated and people were not adequately cared for. Thank them. These two years have been very difficult for them, too, and it has been very difficult for all Hungarians, so I think it is appropriate to speak in the voice of thanks about those who contributed to the defence. Thank them. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-03-10-1-253	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, Mr. Balázs Ander, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-mortem speech: -Better future in South Somogy! It's an address. You have the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-254	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, When eight years ago I became a member of the opposition parliament on Jobbik's list, one of my main objectives was to be the voice of the people in the church of the nation, who had been pushed to the periphery, and who had been severely disadvantaged. A significant part of my speech was, through the example of South Somogy, about the Hungarian countryside, which I believe has been a retainer of this nation for a thousand years. I thought you should let me know because we're at the end of 24 hours. I thought it needed to be said, because the stakes were to remain, and I thought it needed to be said, because under the yoke of new feudal nersevism, Somogya will also eliminate itself and eliminate it. Eight years ago, my very first speech on why the government tolerates the destruction of villages in South Somogy by profit-hungry agroligarchs of foreign interest. I might add that there are also domestic law enforcement officials who are no better than these new big owners. I believe that what we have now is not the realisation of the idea of an eco-social garden - Hungary, which can be interpreted as the third way, but the expansion of the unjust Latin American model, the deepening of social divides, the growth of the social waste heap. However, when I told you all this, I had a fellow member of the government who replied that I would describe the fate of the Hungarian countryside with such dark colors that the audience would like to cut up its veins. Of course. while Hungary became the second poorest state in the European Union and the most corrupt country in Europe. Obviously, I do not believe that Viktor Orbán is reading my speeches, but at the weekend meeting of the farmers' circles he made a brutally honest confession. Not from opposition, but after twelve years of two-thirds, the Prime Minister spoke to the Fidesz prime ministers about the fact that he did not think that the desire for adventure was driven by those leaving the country, and the truth is that there is nothing to keep them there, because there are no jobs for a decent living, because there is no population reserve. What would the governor of the South Somogy constituency say next? Would Viktor Orbán be hooting, creaking, and unwarranted in the eyes of László Szászfalvi? He obviously has these criticisms, and he wouldn't dare make those accusations. Once again, I do not think that the Prime Minister would quote me, but I have just talked about leaving South Somogy with a crowd of people voting with their feet, because many people do not have any life prospects in these regions. There's no perspective, but there's an existential threat, but there's a cunning fear where you shut up about everyone who dares criticize orange power. This is also the reason why South Somogy's population disaster has taken a terrible measure. One week of the population here has disappeared during the twelve years of Fidesz, and half of this loss has been caused by emigration, fellow Members. Let me finish my last speech as an opposition representative with the sentences borrowed from Ferenc Kölcsey's speech in 1835 entitled Farewell from the National Orders: "May God keep this nation from all evil; let God wake this nation up to the beautiful day of full prosperity! Go South Somogy! [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[18.40]]
u2022-03-10-1-255	Thank you very much, Congressman Ander Balázs. Gergely Kálló, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "Our Careers."
u2022-03-10-1-256	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, as has been said very often here today, we are, and are today, going through the last plenary session of this term. In such cases, most of my fellow Members, if they have the opportunity, will think back to the four years, eight years, or as many as they have been Members of Parliament, to the past, we will recall our thoughts. Unfortunately, life is a pretty bad director these days. I could have talked about the last two years, my speeches, but unfortunately I have to speak again to protect the municipalities. We have a situation, we have a problem, we can see it, we know it. If there's a problem, we have to help. What we see is that civilians are helping, helping the simple Hungarian people, companies, municipalities, seeing the wave of refugees. As I said, yes, the municipalities are making big commitments after a pandemic. In my district, three municipalities prepared for the reception of our refugees. In Ercsi, about 40-50 people have been accommodated in schools for days. Dunaújváros transformed a non-used dormitory building two years ago at a cost, so that we could be sure to receive 50 people and arrive there within days. I learned that Adony was also prepared to receive refugees, although the refugees who were destined for them had not yet arrived. So it is clear that the municipalities are prepared, that the municipalities want to help. At the same time, these emergencies, let us mention even a great flood, are characterized by knowing how long they last about. In this emergency, however, we do not know, and that is the biggest problem of how long this situation will last. We do not know that if the municipality takes in 50 people, then they will have to take care of them for a month, two months, six months, a year, two years, consuming huge money. He's not in my district, but he's right next door to Dunaújváros Baracs. Baracs is a village of 3500 people. For days, 42 people were kept by the residents, tearing these 42 people apart, sending some of them to Adony. This is a huge burden for a village of 3500 people, but even Dunaújváros, if it is to be settled for a long time, is a huge financial burden for these people. I think of once a day hot meals, cold breakfasts, cold dinners, thinking that our kindergartens have to work out how to deal with children, and how to deal with their psychic condition. We have to solve the toiletries, we have to fix everything. My fellow Member, Attila Tilki, mentioned very much how many civilians and what organisations help to provide and receive refugees. There is only one thing that my fellow Member Tilki has not told me: when will the government start financially helping the municipalities who take in refugees? It's not a list of how many civilians are helping. Thank you so much for your help. It is not necessary to list how many companies provide donations, it is not necessary to list how many tons of food we can deliver to God across the border and from here to refugees, but to expect local government leaders to open a fund that will cover the costs incurred for municipalities. That's a huge question. You should answer that as soon as possible. Now, let me give you a number that's annoying to me. You are talking about Hungary's largest humanitarian aid worth 600 million HUF. Recently visited our city, Rákay Philip, gets 4500 million forints for his film. I don't think I have to nuance this, I don't have to explain it. Finally, I hope for the last time as an opposition Member of Parliament: I will remain a servant of my district.
u2022-03-10-1-257	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-03-10-1-258	Mr President, Dear House, For the last time in this parliamentary term, I will address my words to the cruelest government in Europe. I've been called to account in a friendly tone, a little more hostile, why I call this government the cruelest in Europe. Indeed, this indicator was not even in my toolbox in 2014-15, but in the first years of the then cycle we started to walk the eviction events and tried to provide legal assistance to families, in our political community many of them, in the courtrooms or in the field, tried to provide all kinds of help to those who were in need, and who, by the way, were left to themselves by the Fidesz governments. We have faced the fact that, taking into account the European Union as a whole, most families are left behind, and most families are on the streets in Hungary. We have done a simple calculation by summing up the data of the executives in the front of the news recently, and we have come to the conclusion that more than 21 thousand evictions have taken place since 2010 and that the successive Orbán governments have unfortunately set quotas, so they have determined in advance how many Hungarians can be thrown out of their own home on a quarterly basis. Meanwhile, as we know, they have made a deal with the banks, we must say that when the banks sided with them, they have always set a price, they have brought together conditions that represent the interests of the banks, and they have left the injured on the side of the road alone. At the same time, we can see that housing has grown into a huge social disaster. Since 2010, the number of our countrymen with housing problems, housing poverty has increased by more than a million, and more than 100,000 properties should be renovated every year, and most of them should also be deeply renovated. Compared to this, the government of Hungary has taken the EU's resources and has allocated them only to public institutions or to institutions of entrepreneurs close to the government. The result of this is that in Hungary around 30 thousand renovations will take place each year in this period, which is largely self-inflicted, and because the population is obviously unable to finance complete renovations from their own pockets, while, I stress, at least 100 thousand should be required every year. We should also stress and underline that there was a fidesz government year when less than 8,000 new-built properties were handed over. We know it would take 40 grand a year to exchange real estate stocks at least every 100 years. There was a fidesz year when so few homes were built that would have been sufficient for the 350-year exchange of real estate. The situation is therefore dramatic, while foreign exchange creditors were being chased into this catastrophic situation, even though the Swiss central bank warned, and although the Bank Alliance's leaders at that time, which were not highly qualified, still reassured the citizens that the exchange rate would not go away, the repayments would not be unmanageable, so in 2010 it was clear what a disaster was. The evictions started to go up and down, and the Fidesz governments went on for more than four years, and they didn't get a solution, but at least they started doing something. We don't want to envy the final repayment, but we know that it gave the wealthier, the luckier, an opportunity, the market rate forintification remained for everyone else, and that the number of evictions continued after 2014-15. What we see is that over 20,000 ends in a certificate that cannot be described as an "A" or "Exemplar." In the meantime, we also see that the Government of Hungary is suspected to hold a government level with a representative who has voted today, and we have seen that he may at least be involved in the merger with the hideous games of the executives and that the most difficult families have been looted. No one in Europe has, in my view, carried out such a stomach-stricken misdemeanor. We also see that it is symbolic when this man, who is suspected to have done so, votes here in Parliament and here he can be among us, make laws, make laws. [[18.50]] We see that justice is needed, foreign currency justice, a worked-out housing program, a national housing program. I have struggled throughout the cycle to draw up a vision that a national unity government can achieve after 3 April. I very much hope that, thanks to the voters, we will have the opportunity to enter this country-building programme. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-03-10-1-259	Thank you, Congressman. Róbert Dudás, representative of Jobbik, applied for a post-meeting speech: I am not looking for those responsible, I am looking for solutions! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-03-10-1-260	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Today is the last parliamentary day of the term, but I do not want to give you a cycle of a bit more historical, a little bit longer-term reflection. It's been a lifetime since the change of regime. In 1989-90 the Hungarian people looked forward to the change of regime, as they were able to express their hope and hope that we could catch up with the West. They must have been disappointed. We joined the European Union, they looked forward to our accession to the EU, because they were going to be such government slogans, advertisements that we could open a pastry shop in Vienna, Paris and London. Obviously, these few privileged ones succeeded, but at the same time the average Hungarian man was not disappointed again. However, no one would have thought that during this lifetime they would not only sell but even rob our country and sell and rob our future. And what unforgivable sins have been committed in recent times: the last ten, I can safely say, the last twelve years are when they have been put to the top. Corruption, corruption that has transcended everything; the politicization and destruction of health, education, culture; emigration and poverty are the unforgivable sins that must be remedied by the next government. These are unforgivable sins, but I am sure they can be corrected by hard and firm work. But there is something more sin than these, and it has been destroyed in the last 12 years, and I think that it will require another lifetime to be restored, and that is what society has done: continuous hatred, lies, search for enemy images, discrediting others, turning social groups against each other, and turning families and friends against each other. They kept pulling trenches instead of building bridges between the people of Hungary, because we are all Hungarians. You don't have to separate people, you have to connect them. And believe me, people can feel it and know it. But how the Hungarian people still feel every day, let me also say a few thoughts about it! One of them is inflation. That's usually not what they call it in the common language, it's called "expensive." The government can say 7,4, 8,3, 8.5 percent. No, please, it's 30-40 percent expensive for everyday products, everyday items that people have to buy every day. That's how much harder life got. Fuel prices: not only are fuel prices high, which we have proposed to reduce the tax on, but we are now at a point in time where we are not sure that we will be able to get it, we need to limit access to fuel, which otherwise affects everything. Food prices: for countries in the area, we can say that VAT on basic food has been limited in almost all countries, except in Hungary, because the Hungarian government rejected it. We proposed to reduce the VAT on firewood. The Hungarian government rejected it because it has no currentity. But, yes, it has a topicality, it has a topicality, and it certainly looks like it will have an actuality, as due to the rise in the price of natural gas, more and more people will switch mainly to firing firewood in the countryside. They can say anything, but believe me, life in the countryside is becoming increasingly difficult because of the lack of access to roads and their quality, because of the lack of jobs, because of prices and the lack of opportunities. You made a promise to our fathers to join the West, but you didn't make it happen, you went to the East, now it's our turn. A lifetime has passed, from which we can say in the last 12 years that we have gone back far more than forward, and God forbid that this should continue, because what you have done to society is a sin, a historical sin.
u2022-03-10-1-261	Thank you, Congressman. After the agenda, Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue, presented himself with the title "Buda Shows the Way." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-03-10-1-262	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Citizens, Dear Budais! On the last meeting day of the 2018-2022 cycle, let's look at what these four years brought to Buda, the 4th Constituencies in Budapest, the II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. The citizens of the district and what we can expect from the next cycle. Let us consider together how it is worth deciding on 3 April and what the stakes are for Buda. For the past four years, Mihály Varga from Fidesz has been the representative of our constituency. I say, in principle, because the practice showed that it did not represent the interests of the citizens of Buda in the government, on the contrary, it applied the Fidesz government policy to the detriment of the citizens of Buda. It was Mihály Varga and the Fidesz government who took HUF 10 billion from the development of medical institutions and specialist clinics in the district, from the healing of patients in Buda. It was Mihály Varga and the Fidesz government who took the schools away from the districts and took the education system into deep flight. It was Mihály Varga and the Fidesz government who supported the destruction of our historic heritage, the 180-year-old Radetzky barracks. Mihály Varga and Fidesz were the ones who made it possible to rebuild the green areas in Buda, the scandals at the Csipak-fork level, who took away the powers of building authority from the municipalities. It was Mihály Varga and Fidesz who prevented the development of public transport, denied a signature and the capital access to European funds. It was Mihály Varga and Fidesz who declared war on the municipalities, II, III. Both the district and the capital were affected by withdrawal of funds on account of the epidemic. Their constraints were aimed at local public services that define everyday quality of life. It was Mihály Varga and Fidesz who also carried out the long-awaited development of the district in a fidesz way, in a vile quality, incredibly overpriced and stealing the projects. Mihály Varga's former college roommate was in charge of this. Mihály Varga and Fidesz were the ones who promised, but did not implement the school bus program in Buda. It was Mihály Varga and the Fidesz government who robbed Buda, privatized for zero forints the ten billion forints of public assets, the Klebelsberg Castle, the University of Óbuda and many Roman-coastal properties for the foundation of Mihály Varga. Millenáris went to failed II. Zsolt Láng, mayor of the district, took the Zichy Castle and half the island of Óbuda. The property of the former OPNI landed at the foundation of Péter Szijjártó's deputy. However, there were also proposals before the Parliament that would have benefited the citizens of Buda. I submitted these every year as an amendment to the Budget Act. But Mihály Varga and Fidesz didn't support any of these. For example, it did not support local traffic relief developments, the development of public transport and roads, the development of green schools, the community forest maintenance of the Pilisi Parkerdő and the Duna-Ipoly National Park, the development of playgrounds, educational trails, the elimination of damage caused by nature-destructive investments, the launching of the school bus programme, the replacement of service apartments for nurses, teachers, policemen, public utility shortages in the Óbuda Mountains, or even the second, III. development of district specialist clinics. But you can't fool, betray, and rob the Buda. Buda shows the way, the citizens of Buda are conscious, informed and responsible. In 2019 they showed the Fidesz mayor and mayor of the district, instead they entrusted Gergely Christmas and Gergely Őrsi and László Kiss with the leadership of the municipalities. In 2020, Mihály Varga and Gergely Gulyás were forced to run for office in the Buda constituencies in the parliamentary elections. In 2021, the citizens of Buda showed with record participation in the primary and referendum signatures that they wanted to change and vote for the single opposition. [[19.00]] On 3 April 2022, Buda can again lead the way, the path of change, leading to a competent, responsible and fair governance that leads to a free and secure, just, solidarity and green Hungary. If, on 3 April, the citizens of Buda and the Hungarian citizens decide to change government, I will work with the municipalities in partnership with the Budapest 4th constituency for the next four years to repair all the damage caused by Fidesz in Buda and to implement all the improvements that the Fidesz government has prevented. After the change of government, Buda will show the way and give an example of what a conscious, politically and socially conscious, health conscious, future-conscious Hungary can be like. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-03-10-1-263	Thank you very much, Congressman. After the agenda, Ms.Mária Kállai, Member of the Fidesz, asked for a speech:, Greetings to Szolnok and her region! It's an address.
u2022-03-10-1-264	Mr President, Dear House, First of all, I would like to thank the people, businesses, companies, civil communities, individuals, the staff of the Szolnok municipality, the local groups of Fidesz-KDNP for their charity work, for coordinating the charitable work they have done for the refugees of the Russian-Ukrainian war. The county seat provides two hundred accommodations, and if necessary, the campus of the University of Debrecen can accommodate refugees. The success of the collection operation in Szolnok has a number of indicators: from Transdanubia to Switzerland, food and other donations have arrived at the courtyard of the Town Hall in Szolnok and have been transmitted through relief organizations to those in need. Dear House, As a first-cycle individual parliamentary representative of Szolnok County City and the 13 settlements around it, I thank you for your trust so far. It is worth recalling, obviously without the need for completeness, what results can be achieved if the leaders of the settlements and the local governments of the region can join forces with the people living there, and the Hungarian government supports the work of the settlements in carrying out their tasks for the most important purposes. My constituency is basically characterised by duality: as long as the economic strength and services in the county seat are good due to the characteristics of the economic power and services, there was obviously a need for serious catching-up in the villages, as we started the cycle with infrastructure and institutional difficulties. All of our settlements had a fair vision of the future, so by implementing their strategy step by step, they were very well helped by the Hungarian village and the modern city programme. The outstanding value of the Hungarian village program is to increase the retention force, make rural life attractive and encourage towns to think together. I would like to congratulate our 12 settlements, as there has been a serious investment of more than HUF 2 billion in some 117 projects, which is very helpful in their catching up. I would like to thank the mayors in this place with respect for their attitude and work. They were able to sit at a table, think about regional development, effectively and successfully apply. We can ask what these settlements have achieved. Obviously, a comment time is not enough to say it, but you have to see in any way that medical clinics have been renewed, schools, institutions have been built and renewed. It is a great feeling to be able to modernize and build nursery schools; markets, secular-church community spaces were established, they could buy the necessary tools for the maintenance of the settlement; and one of the most important and crying out was the need to solve infrastructure problems step by step. This is especially true in my constituency, in the area of Great Circle, Szolnok, Hunyadfalva, Stonetelek. With this renovation being able to start from different sources, we can eliminate decades of disadvantage. Of course, it is important, because these settlements are excellent communities, they preserve their local traditions, their values, they are in a beautiful natural environment, but because of the infrastructure, they have not been able to connect well to the county seat, for example. Although the Hungarian village is young, we can say that in Tószzeg, Rákócziújfalu, Szászberken, Nagykörű you can hardly find a house for sale. I firmly state that with the help of this program, we will be able to catch up. As far as Szolnok is concerned, it must be said that progress is ongoing. We can say that by passing the M4 road, the county seat was fully integrated into the expressway network. In the last four years, 300 billion forints of resources have arrived for the development of the city. We are witnessing a lot of significant investments together, which define the county seat. Obviously the most important of this was the M4 road, the construction of the expressway, but today Szolnok can say that thanks to a coordinated, conscious work, the railway plant Stadler's train factory, the MÁV VAGON Szolnok site, has a significant role to play in modernising the Hungarian railway. The county seat has developed in relation to the dynamics of job creation, the economic strength of the region has in any way increased after the economic crisis. According to the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, this year's strongest growth was here. Of course, we can say that the country's economic strength in our region can be justified, and we can conclude four years of success. This is true, and we should be proud of it even if we meet every day that the left tries to make the results achieved equal to nothing in his communication every day. We're questioning the work of the people who work in it. However, let us look forward to what we see before us, asking with respect the confidence of local forces, the voters in the area of Szolnok, to continue, thanking, of course, the institutions, the settlements and the civil communities for their work so far. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-03-10-1-265	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Kállai. I give the chair to Vice President István Jakab. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2022-03-10-1-266	We ask for your understanding. It's not just a change of seat, it's a change of cycle. Dear Parliament, Representative Andrea Varga-Damm has applied for a post-meeting address for the last 4 years. You have the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2022-03-10-1-267	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make my last speech as a Member of Parliament, and in doing so I would like to take a look back for the last four years. Pál Szinyei Merse, József Darvas, Mór Jókai, Gyula Illyés, Kálmán Mikszáth, Imre Madách, we arrived in this House on 8 May 2018. I must say, as a Member, since I have been a legal representative for 32 years, it has not been news to me that I can now represent not one individual or individual, but the entire population of the country in Parliament as a representative of the people. However, we can also say that during this cycle there have been special events that, apart from the two world wars, have never occurred in a single cycle. We were traveling between the upper house and the lower house, considering that the epidemic always forced us to change our place. We have never had to remember so many Members who died during the term. We are after 234 meetings, and two of our fellow Members died during the cycle. I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that I do have a lot of negative experiences in this House, especially with regard to our work as Members. While half of the opposition representatives were really very prepared, decently and truly representative of the people, the other half practically used Parliament as a resting room. It was surprising to me how few Members really spoke with expertise, dedication and preparedness in relation to the subject. I must also tell you that I have one faction leader among the faction leaders qualified to do this work, and I hope that he will continue to do it, and this is Lóránt László Keresztes. He was the only faction leader prepared from the bill, who really represented his faction as a faction leader, an authority not only for his community, but also for the House. The other faction leaders have been trying to create the stand-up comedy style in this House for the last four years, but unfortunately there are three things missing from the quality of this: talent, content and humor. I have to say that a Member has really demonstrated his personality, his spirit, his humor, his kindness, and his readiness, but the great majority has remained grey, and it cannot be said that he was a representative of the people in this House. Today's session, by the way, was incredible, but it was a four-year impression. On today's meeting, everything that's usually happened over the four years. [[19.10]] At today's meeting, of course, there were potatoes and onions, but at today's meeting, there was a party cadet voting as President of the Republic, and then, of course, the socialist system, the storm of applause in the 1950s. It was the same today when there was a debate on a political declaration, the disparaging of the two sides, the nasty use of each other's words, and the attack on the other political community was not simply a form of opinion. Today, of course, there was once again an immunity suspension, which was almost weekly in this Parliament, and the biggest problem is that in this cycle immunity has been suspended most often due to suspicion of corruption crimes. I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that the legislative mechanism that was in this House, although not new, has been experienced in previous years, and this is the introduction of anti-democratic rules in salad law into the law, and the contempt of the opposition for not noticing these hidden bombs, of course, was also the subject of today. It was a great pride for me to be here as a Member of Parliament. But I think that we must never go beyond demanding of our community, demanding of our fellow Members, requiring politicians to love one thing more than themselves, and this is the people they represent. We can't live in bubbles, we can't distance ourselves from the society that sent us here and those who trusted us. I must say, fellow Members, that the past period has resulted in an extraordinary uncertainty in Hungarian society. And as Kálmán Mikszáth our predecessor said, uncertainty kills the spirit in man. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] Fellow Members! Let us not help society's distrust and strive to make them feel that we have been sent here in the future. Thank you very much.
u2022-03-10-1-268	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr János Bencsik applied for a speech entitled "About the Civil Hungary." You have the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2022-03-10-1-269	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This is my last speech in the Hungarian Parliament, and I wish I could hold it at a more peaceful time. Our neighbor has a bloody war going on, millions of people are turning from one day to the next, and the world is freaking out about new manifestations of Russian aggression. At a moment like this, it would be a basis for at least trying to maintain the appearance of national unity. I therefore appeal to you, and to my fellow opposition Members in particular, to show restraint in these distressing times. There may and may be reasons for criticising the government's foreign policy, starting with overpriced purchases of ventilators, excessive friendship with autocratic, dictatorial leaders, until conflicts with the European Union are sharpened, all of which are legitimate criticisms, I myself and the civil response have criticized the government on several occasions. But now, when the government is finally doing what is expected in such a situation and what must be done is being forced to do it now, because in this respect it does not matter, in such a situation, that the Hungarian government did not condemn aggression, it did not stand by its Western allies, that is the denial of reality, that is the deception of Hungarian voters. In this situation, Hungary does not pursue swing politics, does not speak double, as you have said, but does exactly what is right, and what we have urged, expected and called for. I know there's an election campaign, and everyone likes to say strong words, but I really want you to understand that in this situation, every single voice that is worse than the country's international judgment is seriously irresponsible, and every sentence that sets our country up for a country that is unreliable even in critical situations, who cannot be trusted even in the time of the war, is indeed causing incalculable damage. Or when Péter Márki-Zay says that the Hungarians in Transcarpathia are more pro-Russian, did they think about the damage it causes, and what kind of crosshairs it draws on the brows of tens of thousands of Hungarian compatriots across the border? Apparently not. Or if so, I would ask you to talk to him, try to make him understand that in such a life-threatening situation, these words have a very large, life-threatening weight. Dear Parliament, The historical perception of the government cycle of the last 12 years is the responsibility of the generations after us. The picture of this era in the textbooks, we don't know yet. But one thing I'm sure of is that these were years of missed opportunity. Hungarian politics has been captured and not released by XX. We have no answers to the challenges of the present century, but we have not even been able to have a meaningful, cultural debate about it. We have no idea what we will do with the situation where roboticisation and artificial intelligence kick the door to employees and Hungarian employers. Or what we're gonna do in a world where algorithms know our children and us better than we do ourselves. Or we have no idea how technical singularity can serve the world and mankind while our whole world becomes unrecognizable inhumane. Last but not least, how we can protect our planet and the Carpathian Basin in it, its ecological system, so that it can remain alive even in our lives and in the lives of our children. And it's more than a sin, it's a mistake, a mistake you'll be asked to make. Here and now, in my last speech to Parliament, I can only express the hope that the future after us will still have the opportunity to replace the omissions that this political generation has committed. Thank you very much for listening to me, and thank you very much for having served my country and my nation here in the Hungarian Parliament for the last three years. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-03-10-1-270	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman László Varju... I am only telling you, fellow Members, that I know who is next, but they are not in, and I do not want to remove anyone's name at the last meeting, and they will come forward. I give the floor to Congressman László Varju: what is happening in Újpesten? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-271	Thank you very much for your patience and attention, Mr President. I fully agree that this should happen in this way, because it is indeed here today that it places an opportunity and a responsibility on which subjects we will deal with at the last session of the parliamentary session. I don't want to break up with the tradition of what's happening in Újpesten, and what's worth dealing with in this constituency, the angelland part. I think it is obvious to all of us that during this period, there is no doubt that the Russian-Ukrainian war has determined what is happening in the world, and it is no different for us. We've been completely redeployed, and our lives have been redeployed over the last few days, weeks. By the way, we knew we had to help in a situation like this. After the war started, decisions were taken in Újpesten, Angyalföld, which seek to help the situation of those in need, because as European Hungarians, we clearly reject aggression and stand up for peace, in this case Ukraine. For example, we have expressed this in the last few days by lighting a candle on Sunday evening and by dressing in the colors of the Ukrainian flag in the city hall of Newpesten. This is where I met the family who first arrived in our city, but they have been followed by many. Of course, in addition to gestures, we will try to help with further substantive actions. The municipality has started a targeted fundraiser, to which, in addition to the compassionate and giving people, there have been a large number of organisations, opposition parties. [[19.20]] Thus, according to the request of the refugees, besides food, vitamins, toiletries, blankets, and other hygiene products were gathered, requested, and received from donors. Újpest and Angyalföld have proved many times that the inhabitants of this area are a unique community, moved as one in the districts, and there has been a movingly large, generous offer to the collection points in just hours, which, of course, the municipalities are constantly sending to those in need. In addition, a very important document has been drawn up in substance in line with today's parliamentary decision, and I can now say, or I can now say that it has also become a corporate decision and that the Newpest humanitarian fund, which supports charitable organisations in crisis situations, has been established. The proposal, as I said, has been decided and accepted by the board. Finally, I would like to say one last experience that happened just the other day, two days ago. On behalf of a Hungarian countryman living in Germany, I was called to say that they wanted to help. He comes from Germany, and his bus as an entrepreneur is happy to deliver refugees who wish to travel out to Germany, and in fact have been organized within a few hours. There was a busload of donations that he brought with him, some phone calls, help from the police, and the journey could begin. These tiny, perhaps not so small gestures gave many people new hope that if they were accepted, they could find a humane environment as a fugitive. Ladies and gentlemen, It is a terrible time in the life of Europe and the world, but it is moving to see the unity that we are capable of in trouble. I sincerely hope that in the end love will win, hatred and peace will overcome aggression, and democracy will defeat dictatorship. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-03-10-1-272	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, MEP, DK Group on the situation of young people with limited mobility. Here you go.
u2022-03-10-1-273	Ladies and gentlemen, The truth is, after more than 460 comments in this term, I was not prepared to even comment on the agenda at this meeting until, as usual, I bought on the market in Kispest on Saturday, and I was approached by one of the vendors who met me on the basis of my relatively significant number of faces, and we got into a conversation with each other. I'm gonna call him Stephen, it doesn't matter what his name is. He told me that he had a severely disabled daughter who recently turned 18 and told me what their situation was like. He said that in total, together with all the benefits, this young adult, limited in his movements, would receive HUF 70,000 to make a living from it, that they had now lost the higher allowance for children, and that his wife, who is at home with this child, could not move without help. He told me how much he had to work to ensure the right conditions for this family and these two people, and especially for his daughter, and how much he wanted to be able to buy a device, machine, structure that could help this young adult into the car, which costs millions of forints, and even his VAT is over a million forints, because the state still collects taxes on this equipment. And what really hit me with the personal story is that you said you were sitting in Parliament and never paying attention to us, never paying attention to wheelchair users, never paying attention to disabled people, disabled people and family members who care for them. And I know it's not, I know we've talked about these people's problems for the past four years. I am sitting here between two Members, between Péter Ungár and Mr László Varju, who have done a great deal and talked about this matter themselves. But if that's how Stephen feels, then we haven't done enough. If he feels and I am sure that many people with disabilities and their families feel that we have not done enough, then we still have work to do, and that is not the only comment we have to do, but that those who will be here in Parliament or who will be here in Parliament after 3 April, either in government or in opposition, let us continue this work. We have now received a letter from all of us, Members of Parliament, fellow opposition and pro-government Members, in which we will move to make a move! The Association described the problems that characterize these people, or the lives of these people. I am sure that all my fellow Members have read these proposals, what needs to be done to ensure that there are enough professionals in educational institutions and other special institutions for people with disabilities, what we need to do with this truly unacceptable financial situation, what these young adults will cost us, what we need to do with family members who need to be at home, but for whom the care fee does not provide employment, does not provide a livelihood, does not provide pensions, what we need to do in order to improve the conditions of housing, what we need to do in order to make real, meaningful progress in accessibility. I think I can continue to list these professional items here for a long time. I would like to tell you that I am sure that every government has priorities and every parliament has priorities, and I know that these priorities very often differ on both sides of Parliament. We think a lot of things differently, but I honestly believe that we should be right-wing, left-wing, liberal, green, be one side of the horseshoe or the other, think of anything else about many questions in the world, perhaps this is a question in which we should not have a debate, we should not think differently, and this country should not be so poor, we cannot be in such a bad economic situation that we cannot and do not want to help these people. I would like to end this term by asking all my fellow Members to think about these people in the next term of government, whoever will be in government, whether the current government or a new government. That is what I promise, that is what I will do, and that is what I ask of my fellow Members.
u2022-03-10-1-274	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Anett Bősz, DK Group, asked to speak with the title of our current affairs in the Érd and the region. You have the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-275	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This is one of the last times, and I trust that this is one of the last times that my colleagues and I are sitting in the benches of the opposition, because I believe that the situation is ripe for a change of government. I would like to talk here in the next five minutes about what Érd and its region can gain from the change of government, because the restoration of the rule of law and democracy also includes a number of practical steps to improve the daily lives of citizens, and which can be seen in development, as in the principle of equal dignity, in the principle of equal treatment. Such is fair greening, such as the emergence of the value of solidarity in fiscal policy and the formulation of a more free and new social perspective that can benefit economic policy and social policy. Érd and its region can gain from the change of government by changing the basically poor or mixed infrastructure suburban character. We see that, over and over again, road network development promises have remained unrequited. We have also seen that the promise of a very clear election made in 2018 that all roads in the region will be covered with solid roads within five years was far below expectations. I'm just going to mention one thing: 300 kilometers out of 400 kilometers of the road network in Érd. But I could also mention Tárnok or Diósd, where nearly half of the settlements walk in dust in summer and in winter in mud. [[19.30]] We cannot afford this, because we are talking about an amazingly dynamically developing area, where young families are moving, where we really need to be able to fit, and we need to be able to drive a stroller, a small motorbike, a small bike, a big bike. These are all demands on the part of citizens that are waiting for an answer, and I think we can promise that if there is a change of government and if there is a change in the region of Érd, we will be able to finally make these promises. I would like to talk about a few other things that seem theoretical, but they do help citizens' everyday lives. For example, strengthening the local government is one of these. There are policy areas that need to be returned to municipalities after the change of government, such as construction, social services or social services. As a part of this, what my fellow Member Gergely Arató was just talking about, our fellow countrymen who need accessibility or other help in everyday life... they can finally get this. It is no coincidence that the principle of subsidiarity is so important in the European Union, because it is the municipalities and smaller offices that can really get close to the citizens, they can listen to the Istváns, Eves and everyone on the market and their parents, because, unfortunately, our older, disabled countrymen also live with their parents, in a situation where, without family help, independent life would be unattainable, although this is just a social policy decision and an institutional development challenge that our country could otherwise jump at the current stage of social development. But to go further on the challenges of Érd and its region: Diósd and Törökbálint are under enormous environmental and noise pressure, mainly due to transit traffic. We need to develop not only on the noise barrier walls, but also on how to re-solve, for example, fixed-track transport, how to make freight lines. These can be solved by some technical tasks relating to the organisation of transport. However, what is not possible is the P+R parking lot. For P+R parking lots, there is a need for development resources. We need development resources for industrial park development. And also to pay attention to the smallest ones in the region, who may not have been: Salt fountain and Pusztazamor, I can only say that industrial park development, for example, must rise to the most modern environmental and nature conservation standards. I can guarantee that if, in the coming months, I have the opportunity to work here in this House as a Member of Parliament in the region. Thank you so much for listening. I hope I can serve you.
u2022-03-10-1-276	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Hajdu, representative of the DK Group, also applied for a post- Agenda speech with the title "20 years in the legislative process." You have the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-277	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My apologies, but I'll be talking about myself. I asked to say goodbye. I say good-bye to this House, I say good-bye to my colleagues who, with their work here, have earned the title of representative, and, above all, I say goodbye to my constituents, whose representation here in the legislative process, after twenty years of parliamentary service, I will finish today. In 1994 I was elected Parliamentary Representative in the 23rd Constituencies of Budapest. This has been transformed since then, so today New Palota, Pestújhely and Rákospalota form the constituency together with a part of Újpest. I served five cycles through the walls of this House. At five parliamentary elections, I asked for the confidence of local voters, and they all found themselves worthy of representing the constituency on five occasions. I would like to thank them for their unbroken trust. But trust is not to be thanked, it is to be served, and I hope I have served some. At the time of the Horn Government, I was a vice-president of the Environment Committee, involved in the substantive development of laws on the protection of the environment, waste management, water management, forest management, nature conservation, noise protection, aviation, protection of protected natural values or the protection of the built environment, conservation of monuments. I also served as mayor of the district for five cycles, so I dealt mostly with the situation of local governments and asked for the words of the clever and difficult things of my constituency, especially after the agenda. I've been a member of three pro-government groups and two opposition groups. I have spent 20 years in this House among small and larger scandals. Yes, governments have changed, and governments do not benefit from styles. The biggest difference between governments is in adopting and taking note of Parliament's supervisory role. It has shown itself in the content and style of the answers to interpellations, questions, and immediate questions. During this cycle, not the Member, but the voters he represented, and the disrespect for them have been observed in the arrogances and lectures. In the Act on Parliament, the right to information and information required for the performance of the mandate of Members remained at least a letter written in the last four years. We've been forced to sue the data on a series of occasions. Before the Fidesz-KDNP governments, this concept was hardly known in this House. In contrast, I could not submit any successful legislative proposals or even amendments, even though I experimented 39 times. I didn't have a case of wealth, wealth, or corruption. I didn't have a company, I don't have a stock. I wasn't part of an immunity procedure. I haven't even had an unauthorized absence in 20 years. I didn't break my congressman's oath. I spoke out against the injustice of the slave law and its uncontested force, for which the Speaker of the House suffered a monthly reprieve. However, time has shown that protesters were right. I'm no longer running for office in this election. I'm retiring from active politics. During my final mayor's term, I took care of the selection of my successor in time. The mayor recommended in the voter's trust has been elected. On 3 April, the opposition is preparing for a change of government, with the voters voting in favour of NER as a joint candidate for opposition cooperation in most of the 106 parliamentary constituencies. In my constituency, my personal candidate and the winner of the pre-election are Balázs Barkóczi, spokesman for DK. I've proposed him, he's my successor, he's my voter's trust. I wish him to serve in the legislature within the walls of this House for at least 20 years. Thank you very much.
u2022-03-10-1-278	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Varga, DK Group, also applied for a post-the-meeting speech: the budget of the city of Debrecen will collapse if Orbán stays. It's an address. You have the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-279	[[No sound.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Is the microphone ringing?
u2022-03-10-1-280	Did you place your card, Congressman?
u2022-03-10-1-281	Yeah, I got it. I just can't do the mike.
u2022-03-10-1-282	Then the colleagues will help you immediately. [[Zoltán Varga has a portable microphone placed in front of him.]]
u2022-03-10-1-283	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, Firstly, I would like to thank my fellow Member, László Hajdu, for his long-term political work. I think if we're talking about honor, if we're talking about integrity, we're talking about Laszlo Hajdu. And I'm very happy that otherwise I could sit in a row with him, sit next to him, and work with him. I wish him continued good health. But let's talk about Debrecen, like we've done so many times before. Yes, well said, Mr President, the title of my speech is that the budget of the city of Debrecen will collapse if it stays in Orbán. [[19.40]] Of course, you are not welcome to talk about this either in the fidesz benches or in the Fidesz Prefectors of Debrecen: Kosa, Pósán and Tasó, as well as the current mayor of Debrecen, László Papp. Of course, we know very well that in the last 12 years, you honourable pro-government representatives have been working with every means, with billions of public money stuffed propaganda to clear the EU, or as we have heard from you many times: Brussels is being attacked and discredited, and the Russians, Putin, or Orbán's buddy, will be washed clean in the eyes of the Hungarian people. Although we know that Orbán is slowly more involved in the report to Moscow than he is at home, at High Slip, but he and his representatives are still thinking that enough of the usual peacock dance is still telling the EU radically different from what they're doing here. During the war slowly raging at our borders, we can see the characteristic Orbán cacophony. In fact, the media belongs to the well-known teller, and many politicians, the Internet, and the paid troll army, who raid the Facebook world, do the exact opposite. They broadcast Russian propaganda, often even denying the fact of war. After all, although I do not really know what you believe, even in Debrecen, you are still expecting significant EU support when planning this year's budget. Debrecen's budget total is a very large sum: it exceeds HUF 185 billion, which in itself could give rise to optimism. However, the fact that more than 13 percent of the budget total, a quarter of urban development, is based on approximately HUF 25 billion of EU funds, in this form and knowing Orbán's past and present, is more than bold. We know that today the Orbán government has actually become the most corrupt company in the EU, and that the European Union and its leaders have finally learned about Viktor Orbán, you know, knowing how it works. They see through his crappy pub tricks, and they just refuse to finance Orbán's kleptocracy anymore. And I can only congratulate you because, after all, the Hungarian government's stupid master plan was successful: we managed to stop Brussels. We know very well what this has meant: Orbán kicked the door to the civilised world, the European Union, but he did not expect the swinging door to punch the Hungarian government in the nose with that momentum. And that's what happened. Because Brussels has indeed stopped, it stands like a stake, but with the unexpected consequences that virtually all EU funds and free money taps have been closed to the brink. After all this, all the budget debrecen is in vain, despite the sound of government propaganda, if there is no funding, if there is no EU free money, there is no development, if there is no development, there is no working city, but there is no working country, and here we are now a few weeks before the elections. Orban or Europe? Putin, Putin's poodle or free, democratic West? But I go on: euro or ruble? That's the question. And unfortunately, that's the question in Debrecen. And this is where Debrecen is now, not only Debrecen, but all the Hungarian settlements, whether the county seat, county town or small village. That's why we're going to expel Orbán and his like-haired corrupt mob on April 3rd and open the door to a new, freer world. Thank you for listening.
u2022-03-10-1-284	Dear Parliament, I called Mr Zoltán Varga, Member. Thank you. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Tibor Nunkovics, Jobbik Group asked for a speech on the problems of the Danube-Pilis-Gerecse region. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-285	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Fellow Members! Dear House, For a very long time, I have thought about what subject I should be speaking on today's agenda. I have been thinking about collecting in a samizdat what work I have done in recent years since I was a Member of Parliament, but rather I decided to use this last opportunity to draw attention to a serious problem or deficiency in the main settlement of my constituency, in the centre of my constituency, in Esztergom. Esztergom was already on the agenda in Parliament today, because we voted on it, and I voted in favour of the proposal that made Esztergom a county city. At last, the first capital of Hungary became a county-righted city, I think that it has been a long time since he was entitled to this title, but unfortunately this was a long-standing promise from the government, and it was the Fidesz government that made it impossible for Esztergom or any other city to have this rank before. But I'm very glad that this has been achieved today. However, Esztergom has a problem which, let us put it this way, could return at any moment, since it is also an old promise from the government that the flood barrier will be implemented in Esztergom. We all remember, at least I'm sure I remember the last time we had to face a serious flood in 2013, and I myself volunteered to pack the bags myself. I don't think anyone would like it, obviously, especially those who live there, if it ever happened again, and it would be very important for this dam to finally be a priority, and not only to hear about it at the level of promise, but also for the first time, because there are values on Prímás Island that are unfortunately flooded every time, both public and municipal and private property, which deserve to be protected, especially if they were built for a great deal of money. Let's be honest about the fact that the construction of a dam, the construction of a flood protection system, cannot be measured in the price of a stadium, it is well below that. It is no coincidence, by the way, that, since I am a Member of Parliament, I have always put forward an amending proposal in the budgetary debate to allow this dam to be implemented. However, I am very sorry that my fellow Members in Fidesz have actually voted off this proposal and this proposal every time without debate, since no proposal has been adopted in recent years by the pro-government majority. [[Sándor Szabó replaces the gullible Dezső in the notary seat.]] Dear fellow Members, This is a real problem, a real danger that needs a solution, and the solution is also very simple: this dam must be built. If the change of government takes place on 3 April and I gain the trust of the people there, and I can now return to the benches of Parliament, not as opposition representatives, but as pro-government representatives, this investment will be a priority and a flood protection system to protect Esztergom will be built. This was my last speech, and these were my last sentences as opposition representatives, and let me tell you that it was a great honor for me to work in this building and work for the Hungarian people, the Hungarian nation. I hope to return to this building and continue to work, but whatever happens after 3 April, I will continue to serve my nation. So help me God. Thank you.
u2022-03-10-1-286	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the group, LMP Group, applied for a post-meeting speech at the end of the parliamentary term. I give you the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-287	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Allow me, before I begin my speech after the agenda, the last speech in this parliamentary term, to refer a little back to Mr Hajdu's speech. I can say, Congressman, that it was touching to hear this account from you, and what I can tell you is that it has been an honor to be political on the opposition side here in plenary, and on quite a number of occasions at the Committee on Sustainable Development. I think that you have truly earned the title of your representative and can serve as a real example for all those who will serve the nation here in the new parliamentary term. So, with all due respect, on behalf of my group, I thank you for your two decades of work. [[19.50]] And, of course, I would like to thank all Members, regardless of party standing, for the work of all Members who have worked here during this term, and, of course, of all Members, of all Members of Parliament, of all officials, for helping with their work in such a difficult period and allowing the work of Parliament to be done. In part, I would like to take account of the last speech in this term. I do not know how many times I have spoken for Pécs and Baranya over the past four years; I have always tried actively to represent the interests of my country in addition to national affairs, and I have brought its problems here to Parliament, and I have also tried to offer solutions. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the enormous importance of parliamentary elections for Pécs and Baranya in 24 days' time. Unfortunately, not much good news has been reported in the last cycle. It was obvious that this government practically ignored Pécs, ignored Baranya, couldn't get the government's support, and unfortunately, the county's MPs also betrayed our region. It was very painful that, during a pandemic and an economic crisis, our city and the county did not receive support, but we were faced with new cuts and restrictions. Perhaps the most serious step was to outsource and put the University of Pécs under political control. Pécs has been the first Hungarian university city since 1367, and we are proud of this, it is part of the identity of Pécs. I think that all those who have ignored university autonomy and those who have contributed with their votes to the fact that the university is now under the control of a political body do not understand this identity and are not fit and worthy of representing Pécs and Baranya. That needs to be changed, too. [[In the notary seat, László Földi is replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai.]] But in addition to all the actions that have affected the region negatively, there are very serious threats to Pécs and the region. I've talked a lot about how they want to authorize a nuclear waste storage facility, a nuclear cemetery near our city, which is unprecedented. Near such a metropolitan agglomeration, such an object is not wanted anywhere in the world. The example of terrible events in our neighbourhood shows how easy it is for such a nuclear facility to become a military target, since in Ukraine, Russian aggressors attacked a radioactive waste storage facility several times. I think it is very irresponsible for the government to realise at least in this situation that this plan must be crossed over and that there can be no reason for such an object to come close to a metropolitan area. A similar threat, which this government does not take into account, is that they want to authorize a new uranium mine partly under the inhabited areas of the city. I think, even considering an option that, if the permit is issued, it may even fall into Russian hands, even the Russians may be able to disposal the Hungarian uranium ore, this is also serious irresponsible. This also needs to be changed, which is also the stakes of the 3rd of April election. What I can say is, given the government's attitude over the past four years and the attitude of government representatives, that if we want to preserve the safety of Pécs and Baranya, the healthy environment of Pécs and Baranya, then we need a change of government, we need to expel this government, and we need to dissuade those governors who have never joined our region. And if that happens, we can finally tackle decades of problems such as public transport, damaged road networks or many problems affecting the water utility network in the region. The opposition alliance, the Association for Hungary in Unity, has an established programme for this. I can promise everyone who lives in Pécs and Baranya that I will do everything I can in the next term, if I am a member of the Parliament, so that this region can finally start on the path of real development. One of our first measures will be to restore the autonomy of the University of Pécs, and the university that will determine the future of the university, the whole city and the entire region will once again belong to those to whom it belongs, the students, the employees there, the parents and the Hungarian people. Thank you very much.
u2022-03-10-1-288	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Péter Ungár, Member of the LMP Group, spoke with the title of the summation of the parliamentary term. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-03-10-1-289	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, I would like to start by trying to draw the Members of Parliament's attention in this parliamentary term to the fact that care work in Hungary is not paid. I did this not because I think it would be an empathetic issue; I do not think that it belongs to charity, but I think that this is one of the most pressing and important social issues in Hungary today. Who takes care of the elderly, who takes care of the disabled, who takes care of those whom others do not care for, and these people receive money, and when they are paid, how much they receive, a basic system question, in my opinion, is about whose benefit and why the economic system is being built. The thing is, there are basically three questions, which are very difficult to postpone, and the negotiation of which is very difficult to postpone. One, and perhaps the most burning number, is the issue of elderly care in Hungary. With the government side, we have had very infertile debates about elderly care, as they take an ideological position that elderly care is the responsibility of the family. This does not match the reality of the Hungarian people's lives, it simply does not. People don't live where their parents live, or their mother-in-law and father-in-law live, people have to work. Both parties need to work to support their children, and they simply do not have the opportunity to leave the labour market and take care of the elderly, which is 68 thousand forints. In addition to the informal framework, which the government refuses to pay at the minimum wage level, it is also taking place in the institutions, but in the institutions it is taking place in a worse and worse capacity, not because the workers there would not be committed, but because they are not paid and because they are not paid, there are not enough people in the institutions to do meaningful work. Social workers in this cycle could not actually move forward, although they worked more in an epidemic than almost anyone. They did not receive the one-off HUF 500,000 wage supplement, and the 20 percent increase announced by the government does not actually reach the level of inflation. Another serious problem is the situation of people with disabilities. In the case of children with disabilities and later young adults, there has been a positive improvement in the cost of home care for children that the minimum wage has been paid here. And even the fact that the related point system was finally revised by the Minister of Human Resources was a positive step forward. At the same time, both integration into the world of work and what my fellow Member Arató said, the absurd situation with regard to the various medical aids, as well as the terrible bureaucratic burden that all such forms of relief represent, have not changed substantially. The parents of all people with disabilities are concerned that if they die, what will happen to that child. And the Hungarian Parliament or the government will never be able to give a reassuring answer to this, but at least it would be possible to express that this is the case for all of us. The third issue is child protection. This was less than an opportunity to deal with in the Parliament right now. This may have been the most positive step forward, ejecting both the foster system and the institutions of the great communist heritage. But as long as 95 percent of child protection workers receive the same amount as the guaranteed minimum wage, there will be no child protection in Hungary, despite the fact that there are various referendums of such sarcasm. All in all, I can therefore give a summary of the question of how caring work is and how much the caring work is, a system-critical case, a fundamentally feminist case, and a case about what justice is in the Hungarian political and economic system. Hopefully, I'll have the opportunity to do this in the next Parliament. It is necessary to continue to show this matter in social dialogue, because if it does not change who does the caring work and for how much, then there is no one left to do it.
u2022-03-10-1-290	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Bence Tuzson, Fidesz Group, spoke with the title of cases concerning the 5th constituency of the county of Pest. You have the floor, Congressman. [[20.00]]
u2022-03-10-1-291	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, The regions of Dunakeszi, Fot, God, Csomad, Csömör, Erdőkertes and Veresegyház are one of the fastest developing regions of the country. This is thanks to the fact that there are people living here who form a community, who always take one step forward as a community; this is how this area can develop; this is why schools are being renewed, schools are being built, now bunk trains are running, roads are being renewed, roads are being built, and new roads are being made, and we can list the improvements that have been made in this area. But in addition to improvements, it is very important to note that it is indeed... [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Dávid Doros win! Szabó Timea intervenes. Defiance in the ranks of DK and Dialogue.]] it is very important to remember it in this area [[A statement from the opposition. The president's ringing the bell.]] that further improvements are needed in the next period and that we have been a community in this area. Very important [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] To be a community that is helpful. Yes, there is a war in the neighboring country of Ukraine, and at this time the population of Dunakeszi, Fot, God, Csomad, Csömör, Erdőkertes and Veresegyház, the people living there, moved as one man to help. A collection was organized, collected, and donations were made to the needy. Thank you for that. Thank you so much. And, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to express my special thanks in this work to certain people who have organized this collection, Mayor Csaba Dunakeszin Dióssi and head of a civil society organisation, the head of the Association for Naturally Dunakeszi, István Csoma, who has worked very hard to make this collection a success; to Mayor György Fóton Vass; to two individuals in Göd, who have helped this collection both as individuals and through their businesses, and who have worked very hard to deliver it, and who have personally participated in the relief, to Mark Csabai and Attila Juhász; to Mayor János Csomadon Klement, and I also have to highlight this because Csomad is a small settlement and, for a small settlement, two trucks worth! István Fábri, mayor, Csömör, was able to make a donation, because at three points [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] They organized the collection and provided the donations that were collected to those who needed it; to Mayor László Pásztor in Erdőkertesen, who also provided great help, and to Mayor Béla Pásztor in Veresegyház. In this area, until now, more than 14 truckloads of donations have been gathered, and these trucks have also been launched, and the fundraising is not over, we will continue as long as there are people who are fleeing, fleeing a war, and need help. Yes, if you need help, you need help. The inhabitants of Dunakeszi, Fot, God, Csomad, Csömör, Erdőkertes and Veresegyház, the people there understood that, and thousands of thousands! There are those who have given donations and helped those in need. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to thank all those who have helped my work locally in these settlements for the past four years; they have helped to make this region the fastest developing region in the country, and to make investments here, such as the construction of the Dunakes student quarter, which is the country's largest high school investment; they have helped to make proposals that will then help the people who live there to work in reality. Thank you for that. I would also like to thank the people of public life who have also contributed to this work being successful. It was because of the success of Dunakeszi, because all our work was based on cooperation, the people living there, the local leaders, were able to join forces with the government, the Member of Parliament, so that we could make this region the fastest developing region in the country. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: And it will be united that Doros David...! Szabó Timea intervenes.]] Thank you so much for listening. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Go, Dávid Doros!]]
u2022-03-10-1-292	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Till now, it has been done with dignity after the agenda [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] I think I have the right to ask you to continue. Thank you. [[Szabó Timea intervenes. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We always talk about this, Mr. President, but things don't always go with dignity up there. You know, that's it. Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] I didn't want to argue with you so badly that you wouldn't believe me. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Neither do I.]] So... [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I do not wish to argue with you either, with due respect. Szabó Timea intervenes.]] Honourable Parliament... [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Tuzson Bence is leaving in a minute and we're staying in a family circle!]] Dear Parliament, He applied for a post-meeting speech [[Bence Tuzson is leaving the Chamber. Dr. Agnes Vadai: That's right!]] Member Tamás Mellár, Dialogue Group: What about the University of Pécs? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman, within a five-minute time frame.
u2022-03-10-1-293	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The strange thing is, on the last day of the parliamentary term, I'm speaking after the first agenda. [[Zoltán Balczó: It's never too late! Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] I hope it won't be my last speech in Parliament, and we'll see about that, but my hope is very strong. [[Szabó Timea interrupts and applauds.]] I would like to say a few sentences about the University of Pécs, a few words, especially after the change of model. This is also important for Pécs, because the situation in Pécs is that one of the city's largest employers is the University of Pécs, so what will become of the university is very, very important for the future of the city. And, isn't it true that the issue is relevant because from September this change of model started, which actually means a privatisation, a privatisation from which the state could not obtain any revenue, and yet, in fact, it has outsourced it into a form of foundation, and at the same time, the budget must continue to finance the university. But Minister Palkovics has tried to comfort us by saying that at least the universities will be independent, because the curatoriums will decide on the most important issues, but if someone looks at the Curatorium of the University of Pécs, then he sees that his President is Secretary of State József Bódis, so it is hard to imagine how independence from the state will be here then, and there are three members of the board who do not have any publications, so it is difficult to imagine that they will be able to really make decisions on scientific issues. I have initiated a public debate on several occasions in Pécs to talk about this very, very important issue, and I also asked the administration of the university and the board of trustees to sit down and discuss these very important issues, because they are obviously of interest and concern to everyone. When I was in my constituency, I felt the same way about how important the university is to people, because it really is crucial, isn't it, in three respects, because Pécs must be a regional centre, which must also be a regional centre of knowledge, which obviously should be given by the university. Then the development of small and medium-sized enterprises is of the utmost importance, since Pécs is relatively lagging industrially, here we would need incubators, start-up programmes, in which the university could be very helpful, and, of course, in terms of innovation and innovation, it could be very strongly relied on, in particular, the technical faculty and obviously the medical faculty, our economics. And, I mean, I've been working 42 years as a university professor, and I've been a professor emeritus for three years, and I've spent most of it at the University of Pécs, so my heart beats for the University of Pécs. And it is not possible to know exactly what the future will bring, but I am committed to working at any time, however, but in any case to get the University of Pécs on an upward path, and I fully agree with my fellow Member, László László Keresztes, that this can only be achieved if we can restore the autonomy of the university. That's why we're going to fight in the next period. And the other very important goal, which I also set for the University of Pécs to play a significant, decisive role in the life of the city, because Pécs will only be able to play the role of this scientific and cultural centre if it works together with the university, but with a university that can really be on an upward course. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause for the opposition. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Go, Tom! Szabó Timea intervenes.]] [[20.10]]
u2022-03-10-1-294	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr. Ádám Steinmetz, Member of the Jobbik Group, applied for a post-scheduled speech: . Yes or no? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-03-10-1-295	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The whole world is talking about the Ukrainian war and Russian aggression. More than 200,000 war refugees have arrived in our country in recent weeks, with more than 1,300 children on Tuesday alone. Many of my fellow refugees in Somogy provide assistance, donations, and shelters, for which they will be thanked. But what did the Russian-friendly government of Hungary do in Somogy? Besides assisting József Attila Móring, he replayed the state-owned children's camp in Fonyódliget worth tens of billions forints for a privileged foundation. Just as the privatisation of BB, the disposal of the children's camp in Fonyódliget will not be forgotten by the Somogyi. Then, on the property on the shore of Lake Balaton, the team of Lőrinc Mészáros built a tent camp out of the taxpayers' money, of nearly five billion forints. Now that there is a war, I have asked the new owner of the dozering, the Foundation for the Recreation of Children in the Carpathian Basin. I asked them to open the camp in Fonyódliget to accommodate children in the Carpathian Basin, Transcarpathian. But they didn't even give me an answer. I respectfully ask the Fidesz government to open the Fonyódliget camp to war refugees? Yes or no? You know, for the children your friend Vladimir Putin is now shooting with his bombs and his tanks. If you have humanity, then do this gesture by April 3rd. What happens after April 3rd? The country will wake up one morning. On this spring morning, the air will be different, the suffocating fog of corruption, which is strangling this country, and it will begin to burst. There will be a ray of hope that will help us to believe that Hungary can have fair leadership. On the morning of April 4th, when the sun comes up, with hope in our hearts, with determination in our eyes and in our hands we will begin to work. We will have many tasks: we will have the thieves accounted for; we will take back what the Fidesz privileged have taken from us; we will improve health care, which Fidesz has not done in twelve years; we will give young people the opportunity to thrive in their homeland; we will make it clear to the whole world that Hungary belongs to the West and not to the East. We also make it clear that Putin's friends cannot lead this country and that we will make Hungary's Government do one thing in the future: it will serve the Hungarian people with humility. Finally, I thank the Hungarian people that I have served them here in the National Assembly, the church of the nation for the past four years. It was an uplifting feeling to represent the interests of the proud Somogy citizens and to do so for their well-being. With my humble opportunities, I took every opportunity to present the problems and suggestions of our daily lives in the Parliament as the voice of the people. I would also like to thank my fellow Members for their cooperation, and it has been an honor to work with you.
u2022-03-10-1-296	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr László Varga, MSZP Group asked for an address on current affairs. You have the floor.
u2022-03-10-1-297	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Council of the European Union, I am very sorry that the pro-government benches are empty, because there will be a very important extraordinary meeting here in a few minutes, where we can really talk about the war that has started east of us, the related Hungarian tasks and the situation of Hungary in this situation. I would like to say that we are absolutely interested in peace, and we want to do everything for it. Here we are talking about the comments after the agenda, in our last regular session, in this cycle, for the last time, and as I usually do, I would like to put the problems of Miskolc and Borsod back on the table in the first place; in summary terms, because I have talked about it a lot in this cycle, and I have said a lot of times how harmful this process, which was initiated by the government under the cover of the Covid epidemic, is the campaign that the government has actually launched against the municipalities and thus against the city of Miskolc County. In particular, I would like to point out that the financing of local public transport is being cut. Here, the government took the state aid, about HUF 500 million from MVK Zrt., and the previous Fidesz city administration left in the company a very serious public service fee of about 4 billion in 2019. Clearly, in this situation, it was very difficult to operate, and Miskolc needs much better public transport. After the change of government, we will give back public transport support, and more buses and more trams will be allowed again. We're finally going to start refurbishing the roads, the sidewalks, making it easier for Diósgyőr to reach downtown, downtown Miskolc and the highway, and we're going to stop these plugs. We are also developing health care, as, unfortunately, during the Covid epidemic, it was found that there were no developments, especially in the Diósgyőr part of the town of Diósgyőr, and it is very important to appreciate the workers and raise the workers' wages. We want to solve the air pollution problem that has been affecting the city as a whole and the valley of Sajó for several decades after the change of government. Unfortunately, nothing has happened on this front in the last decade. I can also say about public safety by evaluating the cycle here, that in two weeks there was no order, as promised by Sándor Pintér, and no Hollow Valley became Miskolc's jewelry box. There are very serious public security problems, and therefore we need to strengthen the role of the police and obviously also the conditionality that has given police officers to do their job and to strengthen their existential position. In the Újgyőr square, we will create a police station after the change of government to deal with comprehensive public security problems. Teachers have also braved themselves on the situation of education in Miskolc in recent years, improving education, investing in the future is also an important point of the program and giving decent wages to teachers. We want a truly modern city from Miskolc, we want it to be a modern city, not just in words. This requires not only luxury investments and prestige investments, but also truly human development, which is why we are developing sub-centres and developing city centres with EU funds. Such a development will be given to Tapolca, the St. Petersburg Gate, the Győr Gate, the Bulgarian Land, the Újgyőr square and Diósgyőr, so we will bring basic commercial and other services closer to the people. But of course, when it comes to developments, it is necessary to develop the settlements of the surrounding settlements, such as Varbo, Parasnya, Radostyán, Sajólászlófalva and Sajóbábony. We will also raise funds for these, and we will devote it to the change of government in any case. Finally, I would also like to thank you for allowing me to represent Miskolc and Borsod here in Parliament for the past four years. Thank you very much to my fellow Members for working together. For my part, I would like to say here before April 3rd that I am ready to proceed. Thank you.
u2022-03-10-1-298	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, Member of the Jobbik Group, applied for a post-meeting speech. - 18th. You have the floor. [[20.20]]
u2022-03-10-1-299	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I think the last four years have shown me that the power of unity is much stronger than we think. For the past four years, I have tried to get the problems of the residents of 71 settlements of the Somogy 4th constituency to the Hungarian Parliament. I believe that the development of our settlements, rural development, local government and the protection of Lake Balaton is not a party political issue, it is a common issue for all of us. The only way we can go further together is to think about how we can solve these tasks, to make suggestions for these problems and to work later on not only to be solutions, and to get those words into history books, but to believe in real actions. Therefore, in recent months, I have put my greatest attention to talking to the people of our constituency about putting together a programme that is an alternative to the people who live there, from which they can see that I really want to do it. There's no need for promises. We need to hold hands and work together. I believe that without a living country there is no strong Hungary. In order to do this, the development of the settlements, the tender money, should not be used in accordance with the instructions given from above, but the locally elected mayors and representative bodies should make investments following the voice of the Hungarian people. To do so, resources must be provided. The dependency relationship between the Members of Parliament and the municipalities and city leaders must be eliminated. What is needed is, indeed, to invest locally in improving the quality of life of the local population. We cannot ignore the need to pay particular attention to the development of the centre of our constituency, Siófok. I will give priority to the construction of the Siófok bypass for the next four years. I've been promised many times. We're gonna do this. In addition, I consider it important to invest in waste water around Lake Balaton, because unfortunately there are still very many places around Lake Balaton there is still no sewer network. That's how it is in Siofok, by the way. And speaking of Balaton: in recent years, I have spoken several times to protect the Balaton. Over the past decade, many investments have been made that are harmful to Lake Balaton. It not only causes environmental and ecological disasters, but unfortunately it takes away our common treasure, Balaton, from the Hungarian people. I think that we can achieve results by stopping those priority investments immediately, and, by the way, the joint civil cooperation has proved in countless cases that we are strong together and that we can stand up for our common values. It is therefore important that we preserve this for future generations. Therefore, since Lake Balaton belongs to everyone, I will do what the pro-government representatives will say: we will protect it together, together, strongly and determinedly, because this is what we need. We can't afford, for example, what they're planning at Club League right now. They want to tear down a 9 million-year-old inheritance, the Belly Wall, hundreds of meters long to build a hotel there. That's what we say no to. I will stand up to the fullest in the coming period, in the next cycle for all residents of our constituency in 71 settlements, regardless of party standing, because I think that the most important task of a Member of Parliament is to represent people living in all regions, regardless of whether he is pro-government or opposition. I'll take this job and work with you in the next parliamentary term. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2022-03-10-1-300	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the Parliament's extraordinary meeting will take place today after five minutes of technical break, while the transition will take place on the part of the technicians. Thank you for your work. The meeting's closed.
