u2022-12-06-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning, fellow Members. I warmly welcome all of you and welcome all of you who are following our work today. The 19th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Attila Gelencsér and Dániel Z. Carpathian notaries will be here to help me. We begin the day with pre-meeting speeches, as usual, and Mr Zoltán Vajda of the MSZP Group applied for a pre-meeting speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-12-06-1	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. If you'll allow me, I'll look to 2022, even 23 years, and even the whole decade. There was a negative development, and this is the fact that in 2021 the budget accumulated a deficit of 6.6 per cent in proportion to GDP, compared with the Polish budget, which closed the year with a deficit of 1.9 per cent. In 2021, therefore, the budget deficit disappeared. This was a mistake in the economic history mirror. When inflation started, the central bank stepped on the brakes and the government stepped on the gas. This will be 14.5 percent annual average inflation in 22 and the latest figure, 21.1. This is likely to go even higher, and inflation will start very slowly only in the first half of next year, but still in 23, 15 per cent, yes, 15 per cent inflation is expected in the baseline scenario, this is the peace scenario; if this is not the scenario, inflation will be 18 per cent, which is the highest inflation in the European Union as a whole. We know the reasons for this. One of the reasons is that the two institutions of the Hungarian State defining inflation policy, the government and the central bank, went on different paths in 21 and the former economic policy coherence of the government and the central bank was disrupted. We must tell you straight, if we continue to pretend that there are no very negative macroeconomic developments in Hungary, we will lose the years of 2020. Hungary is the financially 4-5th most vulnerable country in the world, getting back here, in this group, was a waste. There are a lot of mistakes in this. This is where the decision is made that the government did not make an important decision in 2010: it did not launch a two thousand megawatts of renewable energy. As a result, the explosive energy prices in Hungary in the 2020s were one-on-one. The person who said that we would be local exceptions was wrong, unless in the sense that some of our macroeconomic data listed us today as the most vulnerable countries in terms of the financial system. This is the current account deficit, such as the high deficit, which will show a deficit of around 8%. This is the high deficit in the budget, which once again was a serious economic policy malpractice. And there is another area that I have to highlight from the sources of inflation, and this is the food industry: today Hungary operates from the back of the EU with the second lowest productivity, only Bulgaria is behind us in the food industry. We also know that the lower productivity, the higher the inflation in that area, because if there is not enough supply, demand will push prices up. However, there is one other thing to mention: the Hungarian government's crisis management strategy is wrong, it is wrong because it is trying to give fish instead of nets. If I use a price stop for a product and it is possible to pass on the loss of profit to other products, they will do so. The government expects about 2.5-3 percent reduction in inflation from these measures, instead it creates a 3-4 percent surplus in inflation. They therefore increase the level of price increases as a single goal. So finally, as things stand today, we need to ask ourselves three questions. One: what is the state of the Hungarian economy? Two, what led us to where we ended up? And three, is there a way out? The answers to the fact that we are among the five most financially vulnerable countries in the world, this means a continuous exchange rate war, constantly raising the possibility of a current account crisis, constantly putting pressure on all other areas, such as sovereign debt financing. We have the second largest twin deficit in the European Union, Romania precedes us, which is not a very big, serious pleasure. The budget deficit of around 6.8 per cent and the current account of around 8 per cent are, unfortunately, the same level that was condemned when Fidesz was in the opposition. It's unsustainable! Why did this situation develop? Because from 2010, good decisions have not been made, and then, during the energy crisis, bad decisions have been made, the budget has been released, against the Poles, where the deficit was only 1.9 percent. Face the fact that the Hungarian economy is in a crisis situation. Faced with the fact that financial, macroeconomic indicators in the EU are among the worst 1-2, they will surely be the worst next year. We must face the fact that if Hungary continues this economic policy, there will be stagflation. You can change that this year, not next year. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] What you have just heard is the literal words of György Matolcsy, the President of the Central Bank, appointed by you, at the meeting of the Economic Committee yesterday, that he has literally heard quotes from him, so now you have the opportunity to say five minutes of the words of György Matolcsy, appointed by you...
u2022-12-06-2	Congressman...
u2022-12-06-3	... literallyanswered. Thank you. [[Applause in the lines of Momentum and LMP.]]
u2022-12-06-4	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, responds to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-12-06-5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If I wanted to start interestingly, I would say that the opposition is not able to judge the government's economic policy, even to do so, it needs the Hungarian National Bank. [[Bence Rétvári: That's right! Zoltán Vajda intervenes.]] It is also very interesting that, not so long ago, you accused George Matolcsy central bank president of all kinds of Fidesz protégés, unilateral government support, of defending government economic policy, and now it turns out that György Matolcsy is still an independent central bank president, doing his job independently, and his work includes that if he wants to give his opinion on economic policy as the head of the central bank, he could do so at any time. Then it is also very interesting for you that not so long ago the President of the Central Bank has been severely criticized by you, and now you are quoting and celebrating yourself, so that you can do your job with the words of György Matolcsy. [[8.10]] Well, that makes me wonder. In any case, in many ways we see Matolcsy's words differently from the government's point of view. Of course, he has some findings that are true. For example, it is true that there is a problem. There's trouble in Hungary, there's trouble in Europe, and there's trouble all over the world. The world's economy is heading towards recession. All countries were forced to take steps, including Hungary. However, let us not forget that, over the last 12 years, the government has led this country, the economy, through two crises and both crises successfully. One was caused by your party in the 2008-2009 years. By the way, while we are on the record, the beginning of the same protocol, if you had read it, is also about how your crisis management in 2008-2009 took place and what it did to the country, that after your crisis management, it took us six years to restore the performance of the economy, while at the time of Covid, the government, together with the central bank, could do all this in one year, which proved to be an outstanding achievement in Europe as well. I suggest you read this report a little more carefully. [[Zoltán Vajda: I literally quoted György Matolcsy!]] Read it from beginning to end, because it's not just about what measures the government has taken, it's about looking back. Returning to government economic policy: however it is, economic growth was 4.1 percent in Hungary in the third quarter, while the average of the European Union was 2.4 percent. In Hungary there are 1 million more people working than in 2010, some 4.7 million people work, and unemployment is below 4 percent, which is permanently at the forefront of the European Union. [[Zoltán Vajda: The economy is still in trouble!]] I think that the Hungarian budget is crisis-resistant, the Hungarian economy is crisis-resistant, and the government can justify this with its decisions. Dear fellow Member, I suggest you reconsider your words after studying the protocol, and you will see that the Hungarian government can protect the country from problems. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Vajda: György Matolcsy's words do not reflect this!]]
u2022-12-06-6	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Máté Kanász-Nagy applied for a pre-meeting speech from the LMP Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-12-06-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Well, György Matolcsy really talked about the crisis in Hungary, and the Hungarian government has a very serious responsibility for getting into this crisis, and it has a very serious responsibility to mistreat this crisis. I would like to talk about another aspect of this crisis, the energy crisis and the energy poverty that is emerging in the wake of the energy crisis, which is a growing problem. We know that households, families, live in energy poverty, which cannot heat their homes to an adequate temperature, especially during the winter season, or whose overhead accounts are borne and paid disproportionately. Well, please, 21 percent of the Hungarian population live in energy poverty, which means 800,000 households, 800,000 families. This is one of the worst data in the European Union. An average Hungarian family also spends up to 20 percent of its total monthly income on paying bills, spending energy costs. This is a very significant proportion in the EU as well, i.e. at the average level. Of course, energy poverty overlaps greatly with housing, housing poverty, income poverty and other poverty indicators, since those with low incomes, no wealth, typically live in households, homes, which are of poor quality, which is very difficult to heat up, and the various tools and electrical devices of this family are outdated, not energy-saving at all. These figures, that is, that nearly 800,000 families live in energy poverty, are, by the way, multi-annual data. This was the case in the 2010s, and we are looking forward to fresh data. Obviously this number has deteriorated, but we are talking about 800,000 families when there was still a rumble in the 2010s. I can see as soon as I get the government answer, but there was a reduction in the rent and how much it helped the families. It has helped that 800,000 families live in energy poverty, housing poverty. And if it is possible to criticise the reduction of the rent, then it must be done from the point of view that you have implemented a perverted redistribution. This means that ten, one hundred and one thousand billion forints were spent on the reduction of the rent, but those who, for example, heated their luxury villa in Buda, entered the heated garage or heated the Jacuzzi, the pool, will receive a much, much more reduction in the rent compared to their income and consumption, while the family who lives in poverty in a small settlement and may not have access to public services, utility services, will not benefit from the reduction of the rent. There are solutions that could help alleviate the problem and situation of energy poverty, but we still do not see these solutions. Obviously, the zeroth step would be to launch a national rental program, rent regulation or even the national concept of the social housing agency, but there is practically no government housing policy. Rent and access to housing for low incomes are not supported in any way. In addition to the reduction in overhead costs and reduced costs, it should be pointed out that there are very, very vulnerable social groups, parents who raise their children alone, large family members or pensioners who should be strongly supported even after the reduction in the cost reduction. I am not talking about the amendment of the social law, obviously not born in this spirit, which we have been discussing here in the last few weeks, that we should bring back into the social law the normative forms of housing support or debt management services. And there is the national building insulation program, which would also mean the greenest, most sustainable reduction of the overhead, because that's the good energy, the greenest energy we don't even consume, and that's obviously the cheapest energy. There could also be reference to the words of György Matolcsy, who also spoke about the government's failure to fulfil its promises for the 2010 insulation programme, but in this regard they already know very well the words of Mihály Varga, who said the same thing a few weeks ago, and quoted the statistics that only 20 percent of Hungarian houses, households, are insulated in an appropriate way. In Austria it is 80 percent, but in the neighbouring countries it is 25-30 percent, much higher than in Hungary. Is there a national insulation program? And then I didn't tell you that as long as you insist on Russian gas, gas dependence, energy will be expensive, energy will become more expensive, energy will not be sustainable, and XX will not be sustainable. Hungary is being held in the 18th century, even though the 21st century is already in the 21st century. It should respond to the challenges of the century. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the opposition side.]]
u2022-12-06-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Zsófia Koncz responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-9	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for your speech. The LMP fraction always highlights green aspects and renewable energy aspects, but I think that we need absolutely responsible decisions before a heating season. You are always trying to focus on radical solutions. Well, I can't even begin to think about what would happen if the LMP's radical solutions were somehow enforced before the winter heating season. We're really trying to get people to heat. I think this is an aspect that is very, very important to all Hungarian families. The question came to mind how Hungarian families can heat. That's why we have statistics here. In 2010, more than one million people were the ones who experienced a lack of adequate heating of the apartment with these KSH data, and this decreased by more than half. [[8.20]] Also, the payment back on credit or housing has decreased very, very significantly in these ten years. You are criticising the reduction of the rent, and I think that this is a achievement of the past period that is extremely important and that has required a lot of conscious decisions. However, Eurostat is also showing what we have said several times, but I think it is important to address this, that the price of gas has decreased in Hungary alone from 24 EU Member States, for example. The Economist recently wrote that the energy crisis caused by Brussels could be a problem in several countries on the European continent, and I think it is worth examining these figures, which have been published in the paper. While in Hungary the price of a kilowatt hour current is 10 euro cents in scale, it is currently 70 cents in Italy: this is a huge difference and the price of a single kilowatt hour electricity is 280 HUF. For example, you are urging that nuclear power, namely, Paks II. For example, it should not be implemented or there is constant criticism of nuclear energy. Well, I can't even begin to think about what prices would be if that were true, because we can produce a very, very significant part of domestic energy production on Paks. Last week's news is that, in the context of the Paks enlargement, the European Court of Justice has found that Paks enlargement is legal, saying that the authorisation process was fully in line with EU standards. The government will make sure that the Paks investment meets the strictest environmental and professional requirements, as safety is of course the most important when building a nuclear power plant. You're Paks II. It is very strongly demanded that it be stopped. This will, on the one hand, be a very important player in domestic energy production in the future, and, on the other hand, in relation to the CO2 emissions that you have also said, it does not matter if we are going to produce nuclear energy. Here I think that last week was indeed the result or moment of two of the most important energy policy results, that, on the one hand, the Ministry of Energy was established on 1 December. Minister Lantos said at the Commission hearings what kind of concept he had in mind and what cases we would be working on. We also have to say, and here too, electricity, electricity is mentioned, that it is a huge thing that the Slovenian power line is ready, and Prime Minister was there at the handover of this. In practice, this has been achieved by linking seven out of seven countries, and this increases energy security in all respects. By the way, I told you yesterday, but it should not be forgotten that if energy independence, energy sovereignty, in 1999, the first Orbán government took the power line to the Hungarian border and then connected it to the Croatian network. So we didn't just start this process. And what is very important is that, while we are talking about gas, which is clear, Prime Minister, he has also confirmed that we would like to bring the share of natural gas below 30% by 2025, but it is important that we have built interconnectors that the opposition has attacked a great deal and agreed that Slovenia is still missing because the interconnector will have to connect Hungary. So I would ask the Member to support us in these ideas. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-12-06-10	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Parliament, has applied for a speech before the agenda from the Group of our countries. Here you go, Madam Vice President. You have the floor.
u2022-12-06-11	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, While Fidesz is engaged in a lively war of freedom against foreign-funded Soros organizations, while Fidesz, former Vice-President of Hungary, former Minister of Family Affairs, currently President of the Republic, greets the Background Society in the Sándor Palace personally. He does this after, for example, that the President of Hungary did not think it important to express himself in the social debate on the heart-sounding regulation, he remained silent when he was supposed to stand up for children of fetal age, but he gives a personal opportunity to negotiate calmly for the Background Society, which is a national security risk. [[Máté Kanász-Nagy: What's wrong with him?]] Let's see what this organization's activity consists of in Hungary! They are the ones who always make us happy at Christmas, of course, in quotes, the,, daddy plus daddy plus children are equal to families, but they were the ones who were so sick of thinking that they demanded special transit zones for transgenders at the southern border. They proudly advertise on their website that they have taken action against the Child Protection Act, and continue to organise an illegal week of school diversity, and provide legal assistance in the use of LGBTQ storybooks, transhumans for bathrooms and dressing rooms, but they also brainwash the public sector employees, whether it be law enforcement, victim support, education, media, health, child protection and sports professionals. However, they also report that they have managed to achieve a positive legislative background in relation to the adoption of children and gender change. I also recall that it was this organisation that, illegally, in the spring referendum, encouraged an invalid vote, so the President of the Republic ignored the opinion of 3.5 million Hungarians in favour of the normal family model in the spring referendum. Scandal! The President of the Republic should not have received them, but, for example, filed a complaint because several of the activities I have listed are currently in breach of legislation in Hungary. But not only did this cause the President of the Republic to be outraged in the national circles, and not only did Katalin Novak remain silent about the heart-sounding decree, but he also did not give an opinion on the Turulszobor of Munkács when an extremely important symbol of Hungarian history was violated by an anti-Hungarian Ukrainian state. But what did the President of Hungary do? He visited Kiev with this anti-Hungarian Ukrainian regime and took photos specifically by the President of Hungary, taking photos specifically with the Governor who said no to the restoration of the statue! Scandal, shame! If we seriously believe that Hungary is a Christian country and we seriously believe that Hungarian interests are the first, then the President of the Republic should act accordingly. But this Ukrainian policy fits in with what the government or the Prime Minister has announced, because the freedom fight is also written here in words, but when the European Union brings the slightest pressure to Hungary to participate in the financing of the Ukrainian state, the Hungarian government voluntarily and singing to this corrupt Ukrainian regime for HUF 75 billion, this is also quite amazing. They do this in a situation where Hungarian children are cold in schools, sitting at 18-20 degrees, failing businesses, because they cannot pay hundreds of thousands or even millions of bills, families and pensioners are extremely difficult to ensure their basic livelihood, and there are rural settlements where they now have to drive 40-50 kilometres to get fuel at all. Shame! The government and Katalin Novak are taking action against what they proclaim. I believe that if we really take Christianity seriously and really take it seriously to represent the interests of the Hungarian people, then this should also be reflected in actions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-12-06-12	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam Vice-President, on behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Eszter Vitalyos, Deputy Minister, responds to her speech before the agenda. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to make it clear that President Katalin Novák does not work in the hands of the government, does not have to report to the government on his daily activities, and I think that as one of Hungary's major public-law dignitaries, he does not have to report on who he is receiving and what is said in some of his negotiations. [[8.30]] However, I think that what Katalin Novák has achieved, either as State Secretary or later as Minister of Family Affairs, for the sake of Hungarian family policy, for the sake of the livelihood of Hungarian families, is incontrovertible. And I would like to assure you that the Hungarian Government will also do everything in the context of the crisis to enable us to continue this family policy effectively. By the way, at the time of the crisis, the government set itself three very precise and very clear objectives: one was the provision of pensions, the second was the protection of jobs, and the third was not the order of importance, but only the protection and improvement of the situation of families. I would like to remind you that, however you try to say that only Hungary has an economic crisis and there is a problem, the rise in energy prices caused by sanctions in Brussels and war inflation affects all European countries, including Hungary. It is enough just to watch the daily news to see what demonstrations are taking place all over Europe because of the crisis. Unfortunately, what we can see at home is that the left is doing everything that Brussels and others are asking; they are fully supporting the sanctions that are causing the energy crisis in Brussels, and it is not enough to listen to them demand that Paks II investment be stopped every day. But let us consider that we are protecting the economic situation of Hungarian families in this difficult time too. We continue to protect the Hungarian population by reducing the rent, despite all the efforts of the left, the reduction of the rent continues to provide all Hungarian households with the average consumption. The Hungarian government therefore pays most of the family's rent, which means a monthly HUF 181 thousand grant to every Hungarian family, every pensioner. Hungarians remain most protected from the rise in energy prices in Europe. But let us also look at what we do to protect jobs in addition to families: for example, energy support for energy intensive small and medium-sized enterprises; this will help about 9,000 businesses. From 15 November, we will extend the interest rate stop to the variable rate loans of small and medium-sized enterprises. Entrepreneurial interest rate stop results in a total reduction of HUF 80 billion and provides assistance to more than 60,000 companies. But when we look at the measures that we are taking to protect Hungarian families and, of course, jobs through them, we see that six measures protect our families: the reduced price, the firewood programme, the brown coal programme, the petrol stop, the food stop and the interest stop. Totally HUF 1064 billion remained for families in the form of tax benefits and income tax refunds. Despite all the difficulties, we paid the 13th month pension, we paid the inflation pension supplement, and we paid the pension premium at the end of the year. It is valid and remains a personal income tax exemption for young people under the age of 25. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Ministry of Culture and Innovation is in the process of reviewing family support, and we are looking at what, despite the difficult situation, we can leave, whether extended or reserved, in the next period, so that we can support Hungarian families and businesses in the next period. We're asking for your support. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-06-14	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr András Jámbor has applied for a speech from the Group of Dialogue before the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-12-06-15	Thank you for the floor. Fellow Members! You promised in the campaign that there would be no cuts, there would be no cuts, and even in the middle of the summer Viktor Orbán talked about whether anyone who cannot pay his rent should earn better or save. The thing is, we're not here. The Prime Minister also said that he has now gone up to the wall and that there is no way for him to bring in additional income in the economy. We disagree with that, we think the rich will pay. [[Bence Rétvári: Soros!]] We see that hundreds of thousands of people in Hungary today are in a position to lose their housing if they don't get help, there are 160,000 households that can fall in this crisis. There's a shortage of petrol, a sugar shortage in stores, food prices are rising. This is not the situation you promised in the election campaign. I come from a family that suffered a great deal both after the change of regime and the crisis in 2008. What I see is that again, as is usually the case with crises, the rich get richer and the others get poorer. I don't think this is the right direction, and that's not the direction you should be following. In the last 12 years, you have based your economic policy on keeping your salaries low, bringing in the multinationals; you have based your economic policy on giving terrible subsidies to these large multinational companies. If we look at who's most taxed, what we see is that the corporate tax on large multinationals has fallen the most, from 19 to 9 percent under your administration. And if we look at this year's and next year's budgets, we see that this year's corporate tax will be collected at 5.4 percent, and the following year at 5.7 percent. And, well, it's obviously not small and medium-sized enterprises that commit tax evasion, they're tax optimizations that can pay lawyers who can assist in such an operation. They're obviously the biggest companies. You are pursuing an economic policy that has led the country from crisis to crisis, as György Matolcsy said yesterday, who was your central bank president, your economic minister, and, by the way, he criticized his own policy yesterday, at least he saw his mistake, which is unsustainable. It is untenable from the point of view of the fact that it is not possible to create such financial differences and to base the country's economic policy on trying to keep capital here with low wages and terrible subsidies. It cannot be based on this because we simply need to reduce labour law more from crisis to crisis, we need to be more involved in payment competition [[Bence Rétvári: We reduce labour law...]] , and more support to the multinationals. After a while, the state budget will be eliminated in this situation, and we will not be able to compete if we do not try to increase competitiveness in another way. This would also be good for increasing productivity, which would require more education, strengthening health care, overall strengthening human areas, but, for example, in the closing accounting law, we see that expenditure on health has increased by 0.3 percent, which, let me say, is well below inflation. On the issue of education: I do not think that Hungarian education will be strengthened by the fact that you are firing teachers for political reasons. When we tell the rich to pay, we think of two things. On the one hand, the fact that the four largest Hungarian companies made 555 billion HUF profit in the third quarter, which is basically one of the biggest profits in these four companies. And the other thing we are thinking about is that today there are five thousand people in Hungary who have a billion-dollar fortune; this number will be 7500. By the way, there are 18,000 people who own over 300 million forints. In a crisis, they have to ask them and they have to pay the cost of the crisis, not those who cannot pay the cost of this crisis. I therefore ask you, with the Spark Movement, to consider the proposals that we have published in our manifesto, not burden the costs of the crisis on those who are in trouble, not on those who cannot pay for the crisis, but on those who are rich. [[Miklós Soltés, with his fingers: 3 billion! Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-12-06-16	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, the reply to the speaker's speech before the agenda will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[8.40]]
u2022-12-06-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You're sitting in Parliament because one of the richest people in the world paid for your campaign. [[Depreciation in opposition ranks.]] If you are sitting here in Parliament with billions of dollars of money, you will stand up and say neomarxist words with the network connected to George Soros, who accumulates billions and billions of dollars according to the most heartless capitalist principles, who gave you three times the amount of 3 billion forints of state support for the campaign. And you've been exposed to this, lying about how it happened, how it didn't happen every day, but now it turns out that you, who here tells us that the rich need to be taxed and the poor need to be helped, are actually sitting in Parliament from the campaign donation of one of the richest people in the world. [[Miklós Soltés applauds.]] Well, if anything, it's completely hypocrisy, honourable Member. But in Hungary, your trend and our civic trend were in government, and both have numbers of what happened to poverty, when what happened to the individual social decylis, that is, to say, the income tenths of society. What happened in your period before 2010? [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: The numbers are coming, listen up!]] The bottom 40 percent of households have lost income, the bottom 40 percent! [[András Imre Jámbor:]] I am speaking to you, honourable Member, so the income of the lower 40 percent of society decreased when the Hungarian left was governed. [[Intercoms from the opposition and the pro-government ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] He said such words, while the bottom 40 percent lost income, the middle layer grew minimally, and the richest 10 percent rose by 10 percent. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: Oops!]] When you tell the rich to pay, your government policy actually took you from the bottom 40 percent and gave you the top 10 percent according to Eurostat. Check it out, check it out. And what happened after 2010? The income of the poorest households has increased to the greatest extent, honourable Member. And I'm not saying it, and we're not saying it here in Hungary, that's what Eurostat is saying, quite contrary to what you're saying. You stand up and say all kinds of words, you don't say one number, you don't say one fact, you just live in your own little bubble, honourable Member, and you refuse to take these numbers into account. If you look at the countries in which the share of people living in severe material deprivation has fallen to the greatest extent in Europe, the fourth largest proportion of people living in severe material deprivation has decreased in Hungary, according to the latest 2020 report. And it doesn't matter, indeed, Mr President, what situation Hungary is in, the global crisis in which we are all living. In a situation like this between 2006 and 2008, a weakened Hungary in 2008 or a strengthened Hungary like now? Because if you look at the proportion of people living in severe material deprivation, which you said here earlier that there was a economic activity in Europe, it was partly beneficial for Hungary, but if you look at the poverty figures: while in Europe during this period, this decade, until there were wars, there were no epidemics, there was a 34 percent reduction in deprivation, so poverty, in Hungary twice as much, 65%. There may have been an improved trend in Europe, thank God, but we have been able to double this positivity, thank God, because more people have jobs, a million more people have jobs. You have only shown how you can increase unemployment, not how you know about employment. You never dared radically raise a minimum wage. Name a left-wing government that has radically raised minimum wage. Name a left-wing government that has radically raised minimum wage. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: You couldn't say anything!]] And give me an Orbán government that hasn't raised radically. The first Orbán government raised the minimum wage from HUF 17,000 to HUF 50,000, and then the second Orbán government raised the minimum wage from HUF 73 500 to HUF 200,000. Name the left-wing government who dared to do such a thing. Give me a left-wing government who was able to give the lowest earners a large wage increase with a minimum wage increase. Give me one left-hand government. [[Imre Jámbor András: In 2002... Intercoms from the pro-government ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] Tell me one that radically raised the minimum wage. You think Péter Medgyessy is the highest minimum wage raiser when Medgyessy, Gyurcsány, Bajnai together 23 500 HUF... three prime ministers, all three billionaires! Say a non-billion-dollar left-wing prime minister this century. [[András Imre Jámbor: Csaba Lantos!]] Can you tell me a non-billionaire left-wing prime minister? [[Noise, interruptions. The president's ringing the bell.]] You say nice words, honourable Member, but they have zero credibility, because they may look nice on the pages of a book, only when you govern, people in difficulty will always be able to drink the juice, and we, despite the fact that there is a war and a difficult situation in the world, and you are constantly pursuing a policy of supporting sanctions to support war, and we are also in this situation. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We help the most vulnerable by providing HUF 181 thousand per month for every Hungarian average consumption family. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-06-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. [[László Szászfalvi: Sew a button on this. You can't! András Imre Jámbor: Yes, you can! Defiance.]] Congressman! Mr Brenner Koloman has applied for a pre-meeting speech from the Jobbik Group. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-12-06-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I am thinking about what Prime Minister József Antall would have said if he had lived to see in the year 2022 the same thing happening on the part of the Fidesz one-party overpower he lived in the communist one-party system because he was fired as a teacher. Yesterday there was a silent demonstration between the walls of this House by the teachers who, in their final despair, touched civil disobedience. Yes, my fellow Members of the Fidesz, you know, this is what you have practiced when you believed in a balanced civil democracy. But you are treating the civilian and conservative flag as a horse-zung, as we have known since G. Fodor, long ago, with real Bolshevik methods, soulless and exploitative, not only with teachers, but also with Hungarian citizens in general. In addition, yesterday the speech of the Fidesz Autumn was delivered from the mouth of President György Matolcsy. I would like to quote Mr President with a quote that has not been said so many times before, and I think you will hear these sentences a few times in the coming months when reality sometimes comes to light, our uncle, called "Reality." So, President Matolcsy, I quote, yesterday you said that we did not make good decisions after 2010 and that the government made bad decisions after 2021. I think that the area of education is a kind of veterinary horse, how true this sentence is. You have used a decade of resources when there was a global economy economy, when European Union funds were unfortunately running uncontrolled into a 30-inch lookout sometimes, and you have not actually used it to implement that comprehensive modernisation of education that has been necessary for many decades. CHAPTER XXI In the century of knowledge and information, our conservative political community believes that all Hungarian citizens, regardless of the size of their settlements, have the right to excellent education at European level. What should be done to ensure that this is the fundamental goal... which, I think, is due to Hungarian citizens in the 21st century. We hope that your irresponsible policy does not threaten this EU membership, although it is progressing well enough, at least for the Hungarian public, your propaganda is making considerable efforts to put a Russian-friendly position in people's heads with a funnel. I think, therefore, that the following very important points of programme should be taken immediately, and since they are often reached, I believe that the opposition, in some self-criticism, may rightly be accused of criticising, so I respectfully make very specific proposals, which, in our view, Count Klebelsberg, bringing the idea of Count Klebelsberg here: what does it take to make our country flourish in a time of crisis? Consider the issue of education a war, and spend not 6 percent of GDP but 8 percent of education. What Mary Theresa was a Hungarian queen who recently died in the anniversary after Ratio Educationis realized that there was a service apartment, and a very outstanding salary for teachers compared to the pay conditions of those days. That's all I really need. In the break-down regions, special pay is needed to teach willing colleagues to go there. It is necessary to review the schools that can be returned to the maintenance of local communities, but of course it is necessary to provide adequate support, especially for schools in smaller settlements, in order for this school system to remain sustainable. [[8.50]] I think that it is also very important to give back their autonomy to the knowledge centres, the Hungarian university world. I think it is very important that the Constitutional Court's decision to restore the autonomy of the research network of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences is implemented, because these are the only steps, these are the urgent steps in which, in this crisis, all Hungarian citizens will really be able to emerge from this difficult situation. Take these steps as a matter of urgency, that is the national interest. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-12-06-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister, responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Members, Dear House, We should not be taught in civil thinking by the party that founded his activities with the Hungarian Guard, and came in here in a guard vest for the first inaugural session. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: You used to be a Soros scholar.]] We do not wish to hear from you your views on civil thinking. Then don't be lectured on Russian friendship in Hungary by the party that brought the only Russian spy into the European Parliament, KGBéla, of all the Hungarian representatives, who was convicted for this, and is hiding, on the run, KGBéla, who you defended here in the Hungarian Parliament, and put on their own list and sent to Brussels [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] KGBéla, honourable Member, you, you. Your party president after the previous Russian-Ukrainian war, what was he doing, can you help me? In the Crimean referendum, I recall that it was one of the very few European politicians who went there and legitimized that it was a real people's will and a real decision? Who's the Russian friend? Who's the Russian friend? Your party president went to a referendum that no one in Europe recognized and legitimized that he recognized and you elected him party president, or I don't know if you voted for him or not, but you voted for him. And you're talking about other Russian friends? In the referendum in Crimea, the party that delegates its president is accusing anyone of such a thing? Our main goal is to raise wages, honourable Member. We made it clear before the first demonstration that we wanted a large-scale teacher's wage increase. Our plan is to raise the highest rate of teacher wages in the last 30 years in three years. We have already shown once that in four years we have made a 50 percent increase, for the first time when a wage increase could be started, because the economy was in a position after 2010 when we started it in teachers since 2013, we had a 50 percent wage increase in four years. But now we would like to do more in less time, because in three years we would like to increase the wages of teachers to an average of HUF 777,000, so that next year there will be a increase of not 10, but 21, not 10, but 25 per cent after next year, and 29 per cent in the following year. This would probably be one of the fastest wage increases in the European Union, and we would probably create the largest construction in the European Union as a whole, because, as I spoke to the MEP of the European Commission, there is no greater construction in Europe than the draft Hungarian teacher wage increase, which would be a HUF 600-700 billion from EU funds, and we would obviously add more from domestic sources. That's what we're working on. But what are you working on? How did your party president, Márton Gyöngyösi, MEP, vote in the European Parliament on 24 November 2022, a few weeks ago when it was said that these funds should arrive in Hungary, from which we can raise or not pay teachers' wages? Well, how did you vote? [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: We need a Hungarian budget!]] How did you vote? He voted not to come to Hungary on 24 November, a few weeks ago, a very recent vote. And before that, there were six other times, honourable Member, when Hungarian left-wing representatives, dollar-left representatives, voted against the interests of Hungary [[Miklós Soltész: Shame!]] And they were not even willing to give no opinion, but they went there directly and voted against the fact that Hungary would receive the source from which we could create the largest wage increase in the last 30 years, because the fact is that there will be a wage increase is certain, but it doesn't matter, honourable Member, that next year this is 10 or 21 percent, it doesn't matter whether it is 10 or 25 percent after next year. And all we have asked for is that the government, from Hungary's resources, from Hungary's home and from the European Union, can increase this and increase it to a greater extent. But you didn't even do that! We all know that when we write to the Commission, we write to you because the Commission doesn't speak Hungarian. [[Depreciation in opposition ranks.]] You are sending to the Commission the materials that they then translate into English and send to us, you, Hungarian left-wing representatives, because you are spreading these false news about Hungary by constantly sending these untrue materials to the Commission. And when there is some material from these which the European Parliament is voting on, on the basis of this explanatory statement, which you have compiled here, the Hungarian left has drawn up in Hungary, and on the basis of which there is a vote, you see their own arguments, what they say here in Hungarian in the Hungarian Parliament, they read it there in English. And just like here, they voted against when we were going to bring forward the legislative proposals relating to the 17 agreement points in an accelerated procedure. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: We voted for them all!]] the Hungarian left did not help to speed this up [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] And DK, Momentum and the others, they voted against it here, too, and they voted against the same argument system. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: We voted! We voted for them all!]] You are completely ignoring what has happened in Hungarian education in recent years. I've only got time to tell you his conclusion. In the last five years, honourable Member, in Hungarian kindergartens and schools. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] 4576 developments were launched or completed in the value of HUF 1000 billion. It's a nice song, I think we can all be proud of that. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-12-06-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! From the Momentum Group, Mr Szabolcs Szabó applied to speak before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-12-06-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Among the speakers before the last agenda of the year, I asked to take a brief look at the most important events of the year and to comment on the position of the Momentum Group. A lot has happened this year, but first of all we have to talk about Russia's aggression against Ukraine. Let us conclude that this war was started by Russia, and that Ukrainian citizens, including many Transcarpathians, are the suffering party of Hungarian dual citizenship, and they must defend their country. We can only speak in the voice of recognition about their heroic struggle, and only in the voice of regret can we speak about the policy of the Hungarian government protecting Russian interests. We Hungarians have often experienced what it is like to have Russian boots treading on the land of our country, so the correct Hungarian reaction could not have been any other than the harsh condemnation of Russia. [[Bence Rétvári: Convicted! When didn't we judge him?]] , and the unconditional support of Ukraine and Transcarpathian Hungarians. That's what we've done so far, as we can, and that's what we'll do in the future. Unfortunately, the government is in Putin's best interests. But if not at any other time, at the latest when Anna Politkovskaya was murdered, it would have become evident to everyone that Putin was a villain and now a war criminal. Another decisive event of the year was the conduct of parliamentary elections and the unveiling of fidesz electoral lies. Before the elections, we were accused of raising prices and taxes. Compared to this, immediately after the elections, you introduced brutal restrictions, increased all taxes I understand, introduced a crowd of new taxes and significantly increased the price of gas and electricity. We're paying a fidesz premium for everything today. So let's find out that they did exactly what they accused us of before the elections, in Hungarian, they lied through the campaign, they cheated their own voters. The next Fidesz gift of 2022 was the runaway inflation of the Hungarian population. The last time we saw it in the '90s, there was a daily increase in food prices in stores, and even though I'm not in my 20s, I don't remember a shortage of gasoline or sugar. They can point at anyone, it's the government's fault. Your President of the Central Bank said this very clearly yesterday, and I quote: "As we have made the mistakes within, the solution must also be sought within. So there's no war inflation, there's fidesz inflation, there's a fidesz premium, whatever they're lying about, that's a fact. Your own central bank president gave you one. In the midst of an amazingly large livelihood crisis, you have even avoided the responsibility of social care through a legislative amendment, while citizens and local authorities have a long-awaited number of people in need of help. Thank you only for those civilians and local governments who will help them instead of you. An important event of the year was the growing unity of teachers, students and parents against the dissipation of the education system. A few years ago, Zoltán Pokorni said that 10-15 thousand children go to the pool every year. We're talking about multiples now. And instead of thinking about the solution, they're even threatening them. [[9.00]] In fact, there's an increasing number of teachers getting fired. As a fact, let us say that this education system has practically fallen apart, and this form cannot be reclaimed. There is no other solution, we need an immediate, high wage increase, and then we need to rebuild the entire education system from its foundations. So, to sum up, we have a difficult year ahead of us, and we certainly have a more difficult year ahead of us; György Matolcsy made that very clear yesterday. On behalf of the Group of the Momentum, I would like to send a message to all Hungarians not to give up, not to go abroad, not to retreat to their huts, and in the midst of such socio-economic problems, everyone's voice must be heard! Now let's stand up for the teachers and students, and then let's all go through the holidays with your family, according to your own religious beliefs, get some rest, get some strength, and from January 2nd, let's start to replace the system together. To do this, I wish all the best for the Hungarian population. Merry Christmas and Happy New Year to everyone! Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-12-06-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Menczer, State Secretary, will give the answer to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-12-06-25	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I'll try to go through the topics you've touched on. It affected the election. I didn't think we'd be talking about it today, but if you've brought it here and accused us of being unreliable, then let me bring you some quotes from the Momentum best of, before the election. Maybe someone likes Gundel pancakes, goulash soup and pumpkin soup separately, but if you mix them together, it's slop. Tamás Soproni, your party partner, said so. We don't want to mess ourselves up. Tamás Soproni also said. What is Ferenc Gyurcsány still doing in politics? You should really get out of public life. András Fekete-Győr said it a little, even in a much more cyfra. The opposition is a suicide tactic. Your Prime Minister's candidate has also said that he is a candidate for Prime Minister's Pre-election. The Momentum would spit against you if you entered a coalition with Jobbik and MSZP. , said András Fekete-Győr. Are you still drooling on your faces, Your Honour, or have you managed to wash yourself? That's my question to you about the election. [[Szabolcs Szabó and Gy. Erzsébet Németh intervenes.]] The second point you mentioned was that of war and Transcarpathian foreign Hungarians. Before we get to the war, honourable Member, who are you to say the Hungarians of Transcarpathia? ! Are you simply taking the liberty of pretending here to be concerned about foreign Hungarians? ! Are you, a representative of the Momentum, the Momentum that we know for sure hates foreign Hungarians? In the Romanian elections, the Romanian party was supported against the Hungarian party, the Slovak party was supported in the Slovak elections, and the Slovak party was called on to do so. You hate Hungarians from abroad with all your heart, they are part of all kinds of international networks, they follow their orders, and they never, ever side with Hungarians from abroad, nor do they side with Hungarians from home. Then let's go to war. Indeed, you are right about one thing: it is extremely tragic, regrettable and saddening, and I say once again, a tragic development of this year, but there is only this tiny difference between the government and you, the Left Moment, that we have always wanted peace. We say that war is a tragedy, that peace should have been preserved before the outbreak of war, and unfortunately this has failed, and we have since said that everything must be done to restore peace. So we are pro-peace, on the other hand you are pro-war, honourable Member. Here is the sentence of András Fekete-Győr, which is about the need to offer weapons to the Ukrainian government, Katalin Czech also says:, Help Ukraine to get the weapons they can use to fight the war. You would send weapons and supported the Márki-Zay Péter who would otherwise have been able, along with you, to send Hungarian soldiers to war in a given situation. Not only would you defend Transcarpathian Hungarians, but you would also send young Hungarians and men living within the borders to the war. Well, what are you talking about, Your Honour? ! So let's move on. Energy, economy. Let's just say it's not easy to argue about energy with a representative of a party whose leader, former president and candidate for Prime Minister are only related to energy that would clean the electric scooter in the shower. So it is very difficult to take you seriously and to argue in substance, when that is all they have to do with energy, even though it is a little more serious issues: the supply of the country, gas supply, heating, the operation of the economy, fuel supply, procurement, nuclear energy, not to mention. The fact is that we have done everything we can and will continue to do in the future to ensure that sanctions that would destroy the country's energy supply are not put into effect; red line for us at oil, gas and nuclear power. You would support this, András Fekete-Győr also said that you would support the oil embargo. If you were on the government, the price of fuel would have been 700-800 for months. [[Szabolcs Szabó: No gas! Lot. Erzsébet Németh: There is no fuel!]] Patience, my friend, patience! [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And shut off the gas, so there wouldn't be heating for the residents, and the industry wouldn't be able to work. And one more sentence. If you are already extremely progressive and defend democracy; I have been invited by a community of young people to debate with your president on foreign policy, your president has not agreed to debate. If your president is so powerless and weightless, try to make someone out. I wish you good luck. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-12-06-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, From the DK group Gy. Ms Erzsébet Németh applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2022-12-06-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Allow me, before I begin my speech before the agenda, to say to Mr Menczer, Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, that you should choose your words and the style you allow yourself here. [[Eszter Vítalos: Say it yourself!]] I think there is a place for debate in the Hungarian Parliament, but those words and that style [[Bence Rétvári: The style of autumn speech?]] Even if you are now freaking out that György Matolcsy confronted you yesterday and fortunately now Hungarian society with the state of the economy, however, Mr Secretary of State, good taste and cultured speech should not be completely dropped and undressed in this House. [[Miklós Soltész: Where is Gréczy? How's it going with Gréczy? Noise in the ranks of the governing parties.]] Dear House, Now, I would like to begin my speech before the agenda, entitled "Why is there no trace of humanity and perception of reality in the activities of the Orbán government?" Not only as a politician, but primarily as a human being, I am confused over the immeasurable cynicism, as the Orbán government is in the midst of a livelihood crisis. An area that has been abandoned in the last 12 years has been bled out, where, for a scandalously low salary, the few remaining professionals are often forced to work only out of enthusiasm for their profession, and now they have dumped the crisis on these social institutions, nursing homes, caregivers of people with disabilities, homeless people, which the Orbán government is unable to solve. Admitting the total bankruptcy of the State of Orbán that Hungarians are not able to provide for the most vulnerable and vulnerable members of the Hungarian people. All they can say to institutions with state and municipal reservations, who face the sevenfold increase in gas prices at the beginning of winter, is to find a way to pay the brutal bills themselves. You call this government? ! Or would you call it government when the Home Secretary tells homeless people to pull themselves together for the winter? ! What were you thinking? ! Squeeze together, in a row, lying side by side with the poor people, like the herrings in a can, and warm each other up? ! The use of words and the humanity behind it is simply outrageous! Only the raw political interest matters to the Orbán government instead of the people in need of help, even when it discriminates between those involved in social care. Because what sober, logical, professionally substantiated arguments are there that only the church-reserved social institutions are granted public support by the government? Is there no need for heating or electricity in public, municipal or civil institutions? Why does the Orbán government only consider the churches worthy of receiving the Hungarian people's tax subsidies? Zsolt Semjén and the clergy must know the answer. [[9.10]] But the most likely explanation is that the Orbán government doesn't care at all about the fate of these people because they've been given up. They say that in the future, for example, civil institution-holders would be able to provide public support through a tendering system, but that is also the only way to achieve the immense cynicism of Viktor Orbán. On the one hand, civilians will be forced to claim the favors of power for the same money that is distributed to the churches without request. On the other hand, I would like to indicate that winter has begun, that the brutal bills are coming, and that we do not even know anything about this tender system in broad terms. Who gets, how much and when? In the meantime, the news came in the form of a government decree yesterday that the churches received new support, namely a head quota of HUF 20,000 per person for public education, and social and health institutions, if I looked at it correctly, receive HUF 195 thousand per person. That would be okay, my dear Orbán government, but it is not okay for other institutional supporters to be able to access it sector-neutrally. In addition to their inhumanity and cynicism, there is something yet to be seen in the relations of the Orbán government with the social sphere: the lack of competence and the lack of realization. This is demonstrated by the package of laws, according to which patients in the care department will be removed from hospital classes, and those who will not be able to pay multiple fees in nursing homes from their own pockets or from their relatives' pockets can simply go wherever they can see, at best home, or at worst on the street. I'm social and shadow... [[Bence Rétvári: Shadows! Tamás Menczer: We are relaxed!]] ... as the shadow minister for pensions, I think that this is not okay, and if the Secretary of State of Rétvári is going to answer me, then I would ask you to answer, instead of the usual puffs and cynical sentences, why you are not giving support to civilian institutionkeepers. Thank you for listening.
u2022-12-06-28	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister of State, responds. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-12-06-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Member, Mrs. Shadow Minister, Dear House, First of all, in relation to Secretary of State Tamás Menczer, I would like to apologise to the Secretary of State for making such a parallel at any time, that if anything is shameful to Hungary, it is not only the activity of your real Prime Minister, but also his rhetoric, as he spoke in public, even in front of his fellow political groups; even Hungary has been marked by your Prime Minister! I have not been able to accurately identify that your speech is actually a speech supporting social organisations or attacking churches because you spoke more against churches than you did with any social activities. I'd respond to both. For us, the work of those who work in social institutions is extremely important, whether the state social institution, municipal social institution, ecclesiastical institution, civil, foundational or any other institution with other reservations. We therefore increased everyone's support. In your time, these subsidies decreased by HUF 30,000 at the core institutions, with HUF 100,000 at the priority institutions. However, we have increased the funding of the institutions and the fund of social services by HUF 1001 billion from 2010 to the last budget adopted. So there was more than three, nearly three and a half times the increase in the social field. But more importantly, a million people have jobs in Hungary. Because if it's a good social policy, it's job creation. There are people who can't help because they have a disease, they live with a disability that can't work, but we created jobs for those who can work, we created a million new jobs, and we raised the support system for the others by HUF 1001 billion. We've always tried to be everywhere. What the left showed during his own city run here in Budapest during the coronal virus epidemic was not nice. For example, when no one showed up on Pesti Road for a long time, Gergely Christmas didn't show up, only you went there a week after, or I don't know how many days later when they said there was medical care, while there was no medical care, because they brought the caregivers there to the hospital, where it turned out that 70 percent of them were in a state of illness, condition that required hospital treatment because of repulsion or other, then that's not a pretty certificate of the Left's care policy. I ask you not to repeat the false statement from the left that Lajos Korózs started, but you continue to continue to this day that people from the Hungarian hospitals are being sent away from the hospital in a way that they really need medical treatment, but they are being taken out of hospitals. In his fake video, Lajos Korózs even concluded that by using the fake paramedic for an episode, nine out of ten people died in it. Nothing like that happened back then. Turns out, too. That's what they said, but it turns out it's not real, they're still caught. That's what they're saying right now, and it's gonna turn out that it's not real, they're gonna get caught right now, because we're gonna take care of everyone in a hospital who needs medical attention or some kind of boarding school. We have also increased the number of seats by four to five thousand in recent years, and we are creating a new high level through specialised care centres, where people who need social assistance can receive even higher levels of care because we will take care of them. The biggest untruth you've been saying for weeks now is that the state has withdrawn from social care. In fact, you have said this many times, and you have already said this between 98 and 2002 and have said it many times since 2010. So the value of that word from your mouth has been worn out, because that's what they always say. You say the bill that stated that if someone can't take care of themselves, if their family can't take care of it, if they can't take care of it, if they can't take care of it, if they can't take care of it by a charitable organization, by a church organization, then the state will take care of it, they'll tell you that the state is leaving. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh intervenes.]] And when we recorded on a legal level that no one will be left unattended, because if no one can provide for him, the state will always be there, all Hungarians can rely on the care of the Hungarian state if neither you, your family nor any charity can help you. This is what you say is a hit-and-run, although expressis verbis is described as being unable to provide you with it, you can always count on it. So I'm gonna ask you to stop this kind of rhetoric, even though I think it's a waste of time. Over the last 10-12 years, we have managed to achieve a much lower proportion of people in Hungary, from 23 percent to 8.3 percent according to Eurostat, and when sanctions bring about a real crisis in Europe, thank God, there are fewer people on the verge of being and not being, so it will be easier to protect their safety. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-12-06-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The speaker before the agenda of the KDNP Group is Mr László Szászfalvi. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-31	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In Hungary, migratory pressure has reached a new level of danger. Near the Serb-Hungarian border, migrants have been disrupted, and more and more people are hearing about riots, shootings, harassment of the peaceful population, physical action against border protection bodies. These migrants are arriving in Serbia through safe countries, a series of border violations, i.e. a series of crimes. However, most people are unable to go further because of the Hungarian security barrier, so migrants are becoming more aggressive, violent, armed and, if necessary, used. However, despite the border closure, migrants are able to cross the border and enter Hungary with the help of smugglers. This is exactly what happened on 14 November at the border of Budapest, when Iraqi smugglers opened fire on Hungarian police officers who wanted to control them. People smugglers don't scare back from anything. Hungary is a transit country, but it is also a protective rook, which has been protecting the EU's external borders for seven years. Based on Frontex's data, the Western Balkans route has been the most active route to the EU since the start of the migration crisis in 2015-2016. On this migration route, twice as many illegal border crossings were registered in the first ten months of this year as during last year. Ladies and gentlemen, Illegal migration poses serious threats to internal security in all countries, threatening citizens of all the countries concerned. The European Commission intends to tackle the issue of illegal migration by emphasising solidarity and human rights. [[9.20]] Even more serious events since 2015 have not led the European Commission and the European Parliament to the conclusion that, in the interests of internal security, decisive and clear measures should be taken to ensure border security. Brussels is willing to do nothing to resolve this extremely serious crisis that threatens Europe as a whole. Dear House, According to the Hungarian government's consistent position, illegal migration should not be managed, but stopped. To this end, we have built a legal, physical, organizational and lively line of defence at the Hungarian and Schengen borders, in line with all European Union and all international conventions. Therefore, not only were we given thanks and material and moral support, but we were given constant attacks, criticisms and incomprehension. For this reason, Hungary, Austria and Serbia recently took control: at the summit in Belgrade, the leaders of the three countries signed a Memorandum of Understanding, in which it was recorded that they would act together to combat illegal immigration. The Christian Democratic People's Party supports the government's efforts by all means to protect the security of Hungary, the Hungarian people and the Hungarian families. Dear Parliament, The dramatic increase in illegal migration and the increasingly aggressive behaviour of irregular migrants show that urgent measures are needed, and that we are at the very last minute. Europe's culture, religion, history, so Europe's survival and future are at stake, so all well-intentioned and well-intentioned people must unite. We hope that 2022's advent can also mean this to all of us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-06-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to the Member's speech will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-33	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We have been protecting the southern border for seven years, and for seven years there has been an increase in migration in Europe, here also on the Balkan route. In Hungarian prisons there are smugglers from 73 countries, more than 2,500 people are smuggled in Hungarian prisons, they can expect serious penalties, four to five years of punishment, they cost Hungarian taxpayers 5 million forints, they only cost Hungarian taxpayers 3 billion forints, we have suffered this for years, we haven't had any help in this, we have built the fence, this year we have strengthened the fence now there is a multiple line of protection, because we have been very aggressively engaged in smuggling people and illegal migrants, we have spent 650 billion forints on border building and border surveillance in recent years, but we do see that the European Union is not helping this. Trafficking in human beings is a huge business. You also referred to the van that the Hungarian police were firing at them, who heroically stopped on the M5 motorway, and whose trailer was stopped on the M1. For these smugglers, this smuggling activity, the one bus of about 22 people to Europe, resulted in revenues of HUF 41 million. Forty-one million forints of labor, I quote the labor fee, they received underworld money to smuggle these people to Europe, and the European Union does nothing but talks about safe entry corridors, it talks about legal migration routes and it talks about mandatory distribution quotas. The smugglers talk about 41 million forints profit per minibus, and they even shoot the Hungarian police in order to collect this money and distribute it among themselves. It is a huge business for them, the underworld is financed by a very large sum, but unfortunately, Europe is the victim of this, and most of all, people who may have died along the way, unfortunately. With regard to migration, we did not understand why the Hungarian left always represents a pro-migration position until we learned that their campaign was financed from abroad. The dollar left cannot take any other position on migration than that entrusted to its principals, so it is pro-Migration. However, you can see how left-wing politicians here in Parliament are silenced when asked about foreign campaign support. At the same time, in addition to the migration crisis, we have experienced another serious crisis this year: the war and sanctions crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to read to you the message of Pope Francis shortly before Christmas, which came to light a few days ago in connection with the war. This is what Pope Francis says to all of us before Christmas: With the war, everyone loses, even those who think they're winners. How many more tragedies do we face before all those involved in wars understand that this path leads only to death, even if some are deceived by winning? The question is asked by Pope Francis. Let us be clear: with the war, all of us will be defeated, including those who have not been involved, and have looked upon this horror with cowardly indifference without having done anything for peace. It is our duty, in any role, to be a man of peace. No one's an exception. No one has the authority to look away. We must not tire, we must not get used to this or any other war. We must not allow our hearts and minds to become insensitive to the terrible horrors of God and man. Pope Francis said: "We will all be defeated without peace." I'm sorry, I'm sorry, My fellow Members here in the Hungarian Parliament, European politicians and all of us who are also active in NATO's alliance, we have become allies in NATO, we are here in Parliament to bring peace. Pope Francis has called on all nations to have only a loser in the war. If there is no peace, we will all be defeated, even if some think that there may be winners sooner or later. If we have work to do on Christmas 2022, it is to promote peace. It is not acceptable for decision makers to come together at any time without talking about peace, that peace is not their goal. I wish everyone a blessed and peaceful Christmas. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-06-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! From the Fidesz Group, Mr István Németh Szilárd will be speaking. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, President Emmanuel Macron is right. The Hungarian Prime Minister posted on Twitter yesterday, because President Macron said that the Russian-Ukrainian war is costing Europe much more than the United States of America, and if we want to survive this energy crisis situation here in Europe, it is high time that we re-evaluate the sanctions. Honourable Members, It is also a strategic issue for Hungary to have peace in our neighbourhood as soon as possible, because the longer there will be peace, the higher the price of peace. The sanctions policy only deepens and prolongs the war, so this is a very dangerous thing. Brussels is completely against European interests, Europe is increasingly involved in the war, and the economic downturn caused by it is also getting deeper. We can say that with the sanctions, Europe has shot itself in the leg, because the sanctions imposed on Russia have not brought about the end of the war in Ukraine, and the people of Europe have become poorer, and Russia has not fallen on its knees, and this year's surplus in foreign trade is now more than twice that of last year. It should be noted in Brussels that sanctions policy is not a matter of principle or ideology, because energy prices have skyrocketed, and that means a deficit of EUR 10 billion per year of at least HUF 4,000 billion for the Hungarian economy, and that is exactly the money that we cannot devote to tax reductions or wage increases. Therefore, Hungary has never supported and will never support this sanctions policy. [[9.30]] Although Hungary has fought against the ban on energy sanctions, we can continue to import Russian oil, and we are also exempted from the oil price cap; therefore, the supply is guaranteed, but we cannot exclude ourselves from the price relief effect of sanctions. In this very dangerous, extremely risky situation, we have only one serious task to do everything we can to ensure Hungary's energy supply. I report that Hungary is the third of the Member States of the European Union, based on the charge of gas reservoirs, there is enough gas in domestic storage for more than six months. However, as I said, Hungary cannot exclude itself from the inflationary effects of war and sanctions. Over a year, electricity prices have increased more than five times and gas prices have increased six times, and this affects other products, including food prices. We can conclude that this is a sanctioned inflation. If the EU were to lift sanctions, prices would be reduced by half. It is therefore in Hungary's national interest to withdraw peace and harmful sanctions in Brussels. However, the Hungarian left does not care at all, we can say that the left is clearly and increasingly pro-war and sanctions against the national interest, as we have heard here recently Szabolcs Szabó, who made a clear belief in Momentum's war and sanctions policy, they stood up for the hawks of war. The dollar left, by the way, is doing this for a reason, because they have been paid and paid very seriously for it. For a very long time, their policy has shown that they are rejecting the reduction in their costs in full and that the Gyurcsánys would return to what they did between 2002 and 2010, when they gave foreign suppliers the opportunity to increase gas and electricity prices 15 times. We now have a policy in the opposite direction. Even in this extremely strong energy crisis, our main objective is to keep the cost reduction. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said that it is a key issue that next year we should put all forints in the Rezségvédelmi Fund in order to protect Hungarian families in this situation as well. The Hungarian government's first priority is the security of Hungarian people and Hungary's independence. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-06-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. In response to Mr István Szilárd Németh's speech before the agenda, the answer will be given by Deputy Minister Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, We are closing a year that has been accompanied by events that we have neither desired nor wanted. The year began with us almost freed from the grip of the plague, and as early as February, the shadow of war came upon us. Fortunately, in the military sense, we didn't become a military theatre, but in an economic sense, we did. If the epidemic has weakened Europe's economic base, then the answers to the war have added to this. It wasn't supposed to be like this. The 11 months left behind have shown that Brussels is simply not capable of realising what is in Europe's interest in this situation. The fact that it is made out of compliance with the external powers, either out of insensitiveness or political incompetence, doesn't really matter from the point of view of the consequences. The bureaucrats have put everything on sanctions, and the fact is that they are not winning, the European economy is not winning. There is a recession, inflation has not been seen since the 1980s, and jobs are no longer safe. In addition, according to the calculations published in the otherwise liberal Economist, the energy crisis could result in an increase of 100,000 deaths in Europe. That would be a huge tragedy. And in these circumstances, the signs of political change are already visible, the fact is that not very much. Gas sanctions, nuclear sanctions are on the agenda, oil price caps equivalent to import restrictions, this is the same misguided policy, only at higher speeds, and the damage can be greater. These damages have been felt by us for some time in higher energy costs, higher food prices, or even in the fact that it is not always possible to refuel as much and as we would like. This is what we were talking about when we said from the beginning that this was a misguided policy. It would have been a good national consensus, of course, but the opposition unfortunately pursued a different policy. For a few bundles of dollars, they gave up their independence and the interests of the country. Thus, they demanded weapons, soldiers, gas shutdowns, Paks closures, global minimum taxes and the exemplary punishment of Hungary by withholding EU funds. Dear House, We have great hope that the new year will bring new cards, first of all, that Brussels will not only have the insight but also the strength to take better account of what is good for Europe and what is not. It is also our great hope that the Hungarian opposition, the left, will have the power to detach foreign expectations, the infusion of dollars and the reflex that they demand the opposite of what the government is doing, regardless of whether it has social support. Finally, let us hope that the year 2023 will be determined by peace negotiated in peace negotiations rather than by unexpected missiles. Dear House, So before the holidays, in the last debate on the agenda, I would like not only to wish you a peaceful Christmas, but also a peaceful next year for all Hungarians, a year in which, despite the existing difficulties, we will find our way back to the gradually growing path that we were on before the plague and the war. Thank you for your support, encouraging words and constructive criticism. We will continue to work for a country that is stronger on its own feet, which is increasingly able to appreciate work, support families and maintain its own safety. I wish all of us strength, insight and just that much determination. Regardless of which side of the political horseshoe we are on, I wish everyone a blessed and peaceful holiday! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-06-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much for the last words. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. There are political debates coming from here. A report on the existence of the conditions for the adoption of a reasoned opinion on the draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a common framework for media services in the internal market, amending the law on the freedom of the European media and amending Directive 2010/13/EU and the consolidated debate on the proposal for a decision adopting it in an exceptional procedure follows. The submissions were submitted in B/2168 and H/2169. The Parliament's IT network is available to all of us. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the rapporteur's speech will take place. Before I give the floor, I would like to point out with all due respect that you will have a total time-frame of 25 minutes for the opening speech, the further speech in the debate and the presentation of the closing word. I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Tessely, rapporteur for the Committee on European Affairs, rapporteur on the agenda, who will speak from the pulpit of the platform. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[9.40]]
u2022-12-06-39	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It is a rare and honored occasion for the vice-president of a standing committee to speak as rapporteur at the plenary session. As we are well aware, since the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty in December 2009, national Parliaments can carry out ex ante control of the application of the subsidiarity principle. The Committee on European Affairs is responsible for examining this principle, which is undoubtedly not an easy task. The subsidiarity principle states in black and white that national parliaments may, if necessary, prevent the European Commission from exceeding the powers conferred on it. We are therefore looking at whether action at EU level or action at Member State level is more effective and we are trying to find an answer to how and how the principle of proportionality applies in this case. At its meeting on 29 November 2022, the Committee on European Affairs decided to present the proposals on the agenda, and we did so in order to ensure that the draft regulation on media freedom was in breach of the principle of subsidiarity. The procedure is open to eight weeks, which in this case expires on 12 December 2022. I would like to inform the House that this proposal has already been adopted by the Upper House of the German Parliament and that the Committee on European Union Affairs of the Italian House also sees a serious problem in particular in the legal basis for EU legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, As far as the content of the draft regulation is concerned, I would like to point out that we agree with the general objectives of media diversity, freedom of expression, protection of journalists, this is not a question, this is beyond discussion. We support the need to continue to examine, as a result of the new types of services and the changing media environment, how to enforce the principle of media independence, the principle of freedom of opinion and the aim of providing European citizens with the best possible level of service in this area as well. Our main objection to the parliamentary procedure was the legal basis of the draft EU regulation, namely Article 114 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which was then, for 30 years, a means of establishing the common market, in particular as regards the free movement of goods. However, the European Court of Justice has repeatedly stated in its judgments that this article of the Treaty does not confer general competence on the EU legislature to regulate the internal market, in Hungarian, there are limits to the applicability of this article. Unfortunately, the European Commission also intends to apply internal market logic in the media sector, while ignoring these barriers, as if all media services were a cross-border activity. However, most of the elements of the draft regulation cannot be identified as cross-border or only indirectly. I would also like to inform this House that several Member States have expressed their concerns in this regard in the course of the Council working group discussions, and that even some Member States have requested the opinion of the Council Legal Service on whether the legal basis is correct. In line with these Member States, the report of our committee therefore states that the chosen legal basis for the draft regulation is inadequate. We must see that the fragmentation of the media sector in the internal market is due to the linguistic, constitutional, historical and cultural specificities of the EU Member States, and therefore the common framework that the draft regulation intends to establish is not justified. Ladies and gentlemen, On this regulation, we need to make another objection, which is a lack of EU competence. According to the Treaties, media matters are neither exclusive nor shared by the EU. EU treaties do not give the institutions of the European Union a blank cheque to do whatever they want. The principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are instruments to ensure that the Union does only what Member States or regional authorities cannot do better than they can, meaning that the Commission would only have a sense of action in this case if national legislation were not sufficient. At the same time, media diversity also shows that national regulations differ, reflecting the diverse traditions of individual nations. It is of particular concern to us that the draft regulation has included a number of subjects which are directly involved in the development of the media system in the Member States. These include market entry mechanisms, the distribution of state resources, the functioning of public media and the regulation of public advertising. The requirements for decision-making by Member States' authorities, which generally lay down certain requirements, not only in cross-border cases, can also be challenged on the basis of powers. We also regret that the draft regulation does not have any demonstrable added value compared to national action, but, in contrast, we are particularly concerned about the rules on public service media, which also seek to regulate the principles of public service media editing, the appointment or removal of managers. We do not see the cross-border nature here at all, but we do see an intervention point that violates the core of the constitutional traditions of the Member States. Overall, we must say that this draft regulation is another proof of the Commission's stealthy intention to expand its powers. [[9.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, Last but not least, we also have concerns about the form of the legislation. The draft regulation does not provide sufficient room for manoeuvre for national decision-making, which is because the form of regulation generally excludes the possibility of national regulation. However, we believe that, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, these rules should have been drawn up in the form of a recommendation or a directive. On the other hand, regulation is a disproportionately harsh interference with the autonomy of Member States, particularly in areas such as public service media, where Member States have very different constitutional rules and traditions. It is difficult for Member States to apply uniform European rules in these cases. We also consider it important that the diversity of the languages of the Member States is one of the obstacles to the development of the single market in the media sector. As a result, the media market is fragmented, often local or regional. The media and the press have national and regional markets instead of an internal market at EU level, in line with the constitutional, historical and cultural characteristics of the Member States. Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the draft regulation, it can be clearly said that it goes far beyond the regulatory powers of the internal market, on which the Commission proposes this regulation. On the basis of the above, the Committee on European Affairs concluded that the draft European regulation establishing a common framework for media services in the internal market infringes the principle of subsidiarity. Please support the adoption of the committee's own proposals. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-06-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform you that you will have a timeframe of 12 minutes and 16 seconds, so that you can also say speeches and closing words during the debate. With all due respect, I would like to ask Mr Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, if you would like to speak on behalf of the government. [[Csaba Dömötör: Yes, Mr President.]] Yeah. However, before I give you the floor, I would like to inform you that you have a 15-minute time frame for both your speech and your speech during the debate and the closing word. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-12-06-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to comment very briefly. As the Commission's package of proposals has several elements that provide clear intervention in the Member States' competences, the Government agrees with the report and the decision and supports the report and the decision. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-06-42	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you, Mr Secretary, that you have only used 21 seconds of your time frame. Thank you very much. Dear House, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented. I give the floor to Mrs Elias Boglarka, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2022-12-06-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that on 5 December 2022 the Legislative Committee discussed the adoption of a report on the existence of the conditions for the adoption of a reasoned opinion on the draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a common framework for media services in the internal market, amending the law on the freedom of European media and amending Directive 2010/13/EU. A proposal for a decision. The summary report is set out in Rule 46 of the House Rules. pursuant to Rule 26 of the Rules of Procedure, adopted by 26 votes in favour, 9 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the concerns about the draft regulation and the details of the proposal in my speech as a speaker, so I would like to point out, first of all, that the principle of subsidiarity is more precisely violated in terms of form and content and that the legal basis is uncertain in the case of the draft regulation, as the rapporteur explained in detail. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-06-44	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The speaker's speeches shall last between 30 and 30 minutes, and the independent representatives' speeches, if this is the case, shall be eight minutes. First, I give the floor to the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mrs Elias Boglárka. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-12-06-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Joining in the speech by the author, I would like to add, in part, but rather confirm, the following. On 16 September, the European Commission adopted a draft regulation establishing a new media monitoring institution at European level, as well as changes to the principles of national measures and administrative decisions on the functioning of media services. Yes, instead of solving the economic and energy crisis in the wake of war and the sanctions that have failed, and even the serious issues facing Europe before the freezing winter, the bureaucrats in Brussels want to take another step towards the abolition of the powers of the nation states and the creation of the united states in Europe. However, this is not the better existence of the citizens of the Union, but the horror of the Utopias of Orwell leads to and is projected to take place. Let us not forget and, if necessary, remind the Commission that the original objective of European integration was not to create a European united states. The aim of most state leaders in the countries was to create a Community Europe with a broader theme, which was created for nation-state autonomy, along with common values called peace and common interests called development. These are the two things that are most affected today by the lack of Europe and for which Europe's leaders should work together. Instead, what do we see? Continuous and unceasing attempts at a, not supranational, but a nation and thus national powers without decisions, from above-directed, vulnerable Europe, and unfortunately we feel more and more aspects of this on our own. But as long as we are here and we can make decisions on the basis of the voter's trust, we can make decisions on the basis of national interests, and therefore we do not want to support this stealthy withdrawal through the draft regulation. We can also see that at this time in Brussels it does not matter that the draft was already having problems at the moment of its birth, as Vice-President of the Commission, Mr Jourová, acknowledged that they were even uncertain in the legal basis, which was supported by a very high level of German analysis. It goes far beyond the internal market regulatory framework on which its reference is based by seeking to intervene in national measures at this level. Under the principle of subsidiarity, as the rapporteur said, decisions must always be taken at the lowest possible level and, under the Treaty on European Union, an EU measure will be met if the objective pursued is not achieved at Member State level or better achieved by EU action. This is not visible in this case. However, national parliaments have the opportunity to examine subsidiarity under the EU Treaty. That is why we are here and that is why we are discussing this proposal. [[10.00]] I trust that we will achieve a goal and that we will prevent the EU institutions from exceeding their powers in the spirit of the rule of law, in order to protect the rule of law, because the issues covered by the draft regulation, such as the creation of a diverse media system and the protection of media pluralism, and the regulations on public service media, are all those that the Amsterdam Protocol places in the exclusive regulatory powers of the Member States. (The President's seat is Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Parliament.) On this basis, it is therefore an overreaction, and the principle of subsidiarity is not taken into account, in our view, to be clearly established. I should also add that the main element of the draft regulation, contrary to the justification of the draft regulation, cannot be identified as a cross-border aspect or, at most, indirectly. In fact, even the impact assessment annexed to the draft regulation recognises that barriers to cross-border activities and investment occur primarily in the broadcasting sector and only to a lesser extent regulated by national law. Furthermore, national rules on audiovisual media and legislation at EU level have already been harmonised with the Audiovisual Media Services Directive, which is based on Articles 53 (1) and 62 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and not on Article 114. I would like to welcome the President, who, I see, has taken over the leadership of this meeting. It is also obvious that one of the obstacles to the development of the single market in the media sector is the linguistic diversity of the Member States, which makes the media market comprehensiblely fragmented, often local or regional. In the field of media and media, there are national and regional markets instead of the internal market at EU level. We must take this into account, especially with regard to the constitutional, cultural and historical characteristics of the Member States. Article 114, on which the draft provides a legal basis, is also clearly concerned about the governance aspect, namely the establishment of a new body at EU level. In consultation with stakeholders, companies and business associations would prefer to keep the European group of authorities regulating audiovisual media services, which would be replaced by this new body, in its current form. It should also be noted that some elements of the draft could even be considered. However, a directive or recommendation that respects Member States' specificities could be a much more justified legal instrument of the Union, since a draft regulation does not provide sufficient room for manoeuvre for Member States' decision-making, which cannot take into account national traditions, cultural, constitutional and historical characteristics. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of what has been said, I think it is clear that the principle of subsidiarity is violated from both a formal and a substantive point of view, and, as I mentioned earlier, the legal basis is also uncertain. In view of this, the German Bundestag has already adopted a reasoned opinion on the EU's plan, which I understand is also expected by the Danish Parliament. Furthermore, as Mr President mentioned, according to our preliminary information, the Italian House does not wish to leave the draft regulation silent, it intends to justify it, and the proposal is also planned to be discussed by the two chambers of the Austrian Parliament, the Czech Parliament, the Finnish Parliament, the Dutch Senate, the Portuguese Parliament and the Polish seymour, as well as the Swedish Parliament. Concerns relate primarily to the inadequate legal basis and the inadequate legal instrument elsewhere, as in our case. Ladies and gentlemen, Protection of subsidiarity and sovereignty in the Member States is not a party policy issue; it is clearly a national interest. This is why the Fidesz Group supports the adoption of the parliamentary decision, and I therefore urge all elected representatives of the Hungarian legislation to do so. I ask you to demonstrate with your support: when it comes to national interests, they are able to prioritise Hungary's aspects. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-12-06-46	Welcome, fellow Members. In the debate, the next speaker was Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group. I give you the floor, please.
u2022-12-06-47	Dear House, The fact is that this proposal is not intended for EU purposes, in particular for non-national purposes. [[Dr. Dawn Juhász intervenes.]] Dear Congresswoman, I'll deal with this later. This serves only one purpose: the political goals of Fidesz. This is one of the stages of the freedom struggle, I say, in a very large quotation mark, of the fidesz continuous tension and anti-European policy that, as it stands, costs this country HUF 3000 billion. They've lost so much to the country, or at least we'll get it much later, but they didn't learn anything, they didn't understand any of it! They continue to think that it is a good idea to look for domestic political benefits, to make themselves the protector of national interests, otherwise creating conflict after conflict is completely unnecessary. Let me give you a very simple piece of evidence. While the debate of the Health Act, which affects a very significant part of Hungarian citizens, was hidden overnight, this debate was considered important, however, that Parliament was discussing it immediately at the beginning of the day, in the best press time. It is nothing more than an act, my fellow Members, to fight another virtual battle on European cooperation and the European Union. As far as the content of the proposal is concerned, this procedure is also called the yellow flat procedure in the European Union, saying that they can warn the Commission that our dear friends should not do so. Ladies and gentlemen, It's not a yellow flat, it's an orange flat procedure, because it's not about the interests of the nation, it's about the interests of Fidesz. It is about protecting the indefensible, protecting the media conditions that have developed in Hungary over the past 12 years as a result of their hard work. Because what are you afraid of? What in this proposal do you object to, which is why you are outraged? Protection of editorial freedom, protection of the impartiality of public media. I understand, of course, that what bothers you is that the public service media will have to be impartial. It's enough to go up to the public media website, and you can see that the public service media have no news that György Matolcsy exposed your entire economic policy yesterday, that he is already dissociating from what has been operating for the past 12 years, and dissociating from where this country has been sent. There's no news to the public media that there are lines at the gas stations and that there's no way to refuel. I'm sorry to give you this personal example. I got in line at the gas station this morning with a gentleman who talked to me afterwards and told me that they were otherwise disabled, and that they could only take the child to school by car, they could only drive to work, but now they spend the whole day looking for petrol. But that's not news to the public media. You know what the news is? The fact that the lack of gas is also due to sanctions, which, frankly, is a big lie. And I can continue to tell you what's not news to the public media and what's news to the public media. Now, changing this is what's bothering you. The fact that it is even mentioned in the European Union that it may not be okay to operate propaganda in a Member State through public media through public money, distorting the market, seriously distorting the media market. You do not like the protection of consumers' rights; you do not like the fact that European citizens are also better protected from media service providers. And, of course, you do not like having control over the media authority; you do not like the need to make it transparent about how the media authority works, so that political self-doubt does not decide who is being punished and who is not, who is not being made impossible and who is not banned, who is not banned. Now, that's what you don't like, and that's what you can say that it's in the national interest to keep it that way. [[10.10]] Ladies and gentlemen, It's not a national interest, it's a party interest! You may imagine that your party interest is in the interests of the nation, but I must say that you are very wrong if you think that is what you are thinking, and you are very wrong if you think that the European Union will respect that otherwise. Because the congresswoman has been extremely selective about the EU's core values. He forgot to mention the rule of law, democracy and the protection of minorities among the EU's core values, not by accident. These aren't important to you, you don't respect them. I have to say that professional criticism is also on a number of points. To say that the media service today, the XXI. It's not a cross-border activity in the first century, and I can't tell you anything else, and to put it mildly, it's not a knowledge of reality. I don't know, you've been informed, you've been informed that there are very different media platforms now. Most of these are cross-border, indeed, there are actors on the media market who are not Hungarian actors, thank God, I add, because in this case the Hungarian actor means that he is a fidesz player, because those who were not fidesz have already been killed from this media market and I could continue these types of comments. It is quite obvious that what you claim to be absurd is absurd. Of course, I do not think that Hungary should immediately be enthusiastic about any Commission or EU proposal. But you have the means. EU legislation may be adopted by the European Parliament and the European Council. Members elected by Hungarian citizens are sitting in the European Parliament, the majority of whom, unfortunately, are currently fidesze. Representatives of governments are sitting in the European Council; perhaps they know Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and the members of the government, and they represent Hungary in the Council of the European Union. Go over there, reason, find a better solution. The problem is that you can't compromise, you can't argue, you don't have allies, and that's why you're trying to use this kind of substitute, propaganda, instead of really producing lobbying, negotiating, shaping the circumstances. Ladies and gentlemen, It is quite charming when the Member refers, for example, to the German and Dutch parliaments, while they wish to insult these parliaments in a political declaration tomorrow. It seems that if you agree with us, you have a good opinion, if you don't agree with us, well, then get out of here where you think you are. Ladies and gentlemen, I can't do this! European policy is about seeking alliances, looking for friends, reasonable compromises, interest-based cooperation. You can't do this! You cannot achieve anything for this country, whether it is EU aid or agricultural subsidies or media matters. You are unable to achieve results when you have to argue when you need reason when you need compromises. That's why they're looking for replacements, which is why they're looking for solutions where the Hungarian public can pretend that anyone in Europe is interested in the opinion of Fidesz. Ladies and gentlemen, That's an opportunity they've taken. But if you want to find such cases, I can say abundantly EU questions where there would be a greater sense of Hungarian action. In the fight against large companies... Oh, sorry, you don't agree with that. Big companies, global companies, they don't want to tax them, do they? There could be more effective action to defend Europe, to protect European values. Oh, no, you guys keep vetoing there. There could be more effective action to make the European Union stronger in the field of external relations. Oh, no, you're vetoing there. You will only go against the European Union when it comes to their money and their power. That's what we're talking about right now. You are not defending the Hungarian people, not the Hungarian interests in this matter, but the one close to you is to put, to say the least, media entrepreneurs, the media empire that you have grunted and the power of Fidesz over the media. This is not a national interest, and it is even contrary to the interests of the nation, and we therefore do not support this proposal. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]]
u2022-12-06-48	Now, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Hajnalka Juhász. Here you go, Congresswoman. I give you the floor.
u2022-12-06-49	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In mid-September, the European Commission presented a new Media Regulatory Package on the creation of a common framework for media services in the internal market, which it endorses in its title as a law on freedom of the mass media in Europe. The Commission's presentation includes a proposal for a regulation and a recommendation, but in a thorough and detailed review of the proposal, I regret to say that it is bleeding from several wounds. Let's start at the beginning, my dear House. In the explanatory memorandum to the draft, the European Commission refers, inter alia, to a series of conferences on the future of Europe, of which I was a full member for a year, when it points out that in the final report of the conference published in May this year, citizens' proposals called on the European Union to further promote the independence and diversity of the media. In a footnote to this point of the proposal for a regulation, the Brussels panel refers to the relevant points in the final report of the conference. If we take the effort to compare the Commission's proposal for a regulation, the relevant footnote and the final report of the conference, while we are already at the rule of law and the European Commission, the Commission did not refer to what European citizens have proposed in the context of the future of Europe conference series. I was a member and not a regulation was proposed by citizens, but a directive. I am sorry, fellow Member of the Council, but as an international lawyer, the regulation and the directive are two completely different things. [[Intercoms from the benches of Fidesz: Yes! Gergely Harvestó: I did not say otherwise.]] And let's keep looking, because the Commission has not only distorted this! Within the framework of the conference, the so-called European Civil Debate Group on European values, rights and the rule of law also proposed a directive in the context of media freedom. In the context of the future of Europe series of conferences, I have also said this many times to Vėra Jourova and Verhofstadt when we use the voice of citizens to expand the powers of the European Commission, but also to reduce the sovereignty and powers of national parliaments. Nevertheless, explaining the future of Europe series of conferences, the Commission prepared a proposal for a regulation called "European media freedom" and, surprisingly, put forward a proposal for a regulation in which the national association of German publishers and media organisations expressed extremely serious concerns in its communication of 12 September. The German interest representation assessed the draft as a media restriction regulation, as well as an attack on European values and democracy, and demanded a thorough revision of the draft. This brings us to the next point, the legal basis for the proposal; because this debate is essentially about the legal basis. As the legal basis for the proposal for a Regulation, the Commission has identified Article 114 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which provides for the adoption of measures to approximate the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States which are the subject of the establishment and functioning of the internal market. In our view, the legal basis for the proposal is inadequate. Title I of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union deals with the types and areas of competence of the Union. On the one hand, it can be concluded that the media and the press are neither exclusive nor divided, since media and media relations are also the cultural and identity imagery of the Member States, so we are actually talking about 27 different media and media markets. [[10.20]] The Brussels approach, which sees the natural and cultural diversity of national press regulations in the Member States as a barrier to the creation of media services in the EU's internal market, is worrying. The current Audiovisual Media Services Directive clearly shows that strengthening the media market at European level does not require regulation-level intervention. It is therefore clear that the subsidiarity and proportionality principles of the proposal are seriously infringed. Ladies and gentlemen, The Commission's vision is to establish a European body for media services, consisting of representatives of national media authorities. Its main task would be to provide expert support and to give an opinion. We believe that the establishment of general, guarantee rules and principles in this area would be acceptable, at the most, in the form of a directive or recommendation. Let me tell you how the European Commission and the European Parliament themselves feel about this. Point 44 of the Communication issued by the European Commission on the application of State aid rules to public service broadcasting states that the definition of public service tasks falls within the competence of the Member States, which may decide at national, regional or local level in accordance with their national legal systems. I have also indicated this to Věra Jourová that this is the European Commission's 2009 resolution. However, point 54 of the same Communication points out that the choice of a mechanism to ensure effective supervision of the performance of public service obligations is the competence of the Member State, in accordance with the Amsterdam Protocol to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This is confirmed by the European Parliament itself, which states in 2010 that public service broadcasting in the digital era, according to the resolution on the future of the dual system, falls within the competence of the Member States to define, finance and organise public service broadcasting; the European Parliament and the Commission resolution on this. My fellow Members, allow me to say that, although Congressman Arató has gone out, and I do not like it very much when there are keynote speeches, and whoever tells the lead speakers is going out, I think that we should honor each other by listening to my fellow Member Arató's question in response to the speaker's speeches, it must be understood that this is about a legal basis. And the reason we are here, pro-government representatives, is that the very sensitive balance laid down in the Lisbon Treaty in 2009, which defines the powers of the Commission, national parliaments, should not be damaged, and we must do everything to ensure that our national sovereignty and subsidiarity remain inviolable in this respect. We support the proposal for a decision, thank you for the proposal, and the examination of precisely this subsidiarity is the instrument that national parliaments must protect tooth and nail, because we have a voice in the European Union until the powers of national parliaments are violated. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-12-06-50	Mr. Tamás Bellozó, head speaker of the MSZP. I give you the floor, please.
u2022-12-06-51	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, In line with the seriousness of the presentation, allow me to begin with a quote from Uncle Besenyő Pista:. Nothing? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This preposterous presentation could be read a long time ago and, listening to you, I just felt this feeling. They say that you are talking about a legal basis, and that is all we have to look at, and that there is no reason to say a single word about what this proposal is about, by the way. Let's see what the terrible thing that the Hungarian Parliament has to run is condemned in an exceptional procedure. It's about the independence of public media. It's quite amazing, really, so it's hairy, what the European Commission doesn't think of itself! ? It describes the development of diverse ownership structures. This, let's say, in terms of KESMA, could obviously be quite amazing for Hungary's Government and Fidesz. It is about the independence of journalists and the fact that no journalist can be observed, monitored, and guaranteed. In particular, the Commission's proposal concerns the following points. Editorial independence. This is what we must now act on, the Hungarian Parliament must act in a hurry. Editorial independence in a country and you are really concerned about the sovereignty of the country, where the Prime Minister and the government in a decree create a freak called KESMA, excluding from the scope of the Hungarian legal system, the decisions made by the Hungarian Parliament, so that anyone can examine in competition that 112 media products can be in one hand in Hungary! That doesn't bother you, does it? ! Don't you have any legal, subsidiarity or any other concerns about this? And yes, this EU regulation, this would mean the end of KESMA, because no European country could afford, not a single government, and not a single oligarchabrigad to buy and manually control most of the Hungarian press or most of any Member State. It's a bloody question for you, just not for what you're talking about. That's the observational issue, the Pegasus scandal is obviously responding to the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, To this day, neither the Defence Committee nor the National Security Committee nor here in plenary have we received a clear answer as to what the Pegasus spy software was doing for Hungarian journalists, independent people, former government advisors, and even God knows whose phone it was on. To this day, there has been only one answer. We have come to the point that Lajos Kósa, after a normal committee meeting, accidentally told him that, yes, this software was acquired by the Hungarian government, and that, by the way, the only reason that it did not have criminal consequences is because it turned out that Lajos Kósa wasn't telling the truth; at least it wasn't about which organization actually bought it. Here comes the harshest part of this proposal, my fellow Members, which is why we can see this proposal here on the table. Independent public media. Oh, my God. Well, that's impossible, well, that can never be in Hungary, so how can it be? ! The leader of the public media should be chosen in an open, transparent, non-discriminative manner, and it would be constantly examined that a lying factory, a one-party, agitprop television quoting old commie times would operate in Hungary, for example, as is the case now, out of hundreds of billions of public funds, and if so, the European Commission and this European Media Council could act on the contrary. Well, it would be the end of Fidesz's huge support if they couldn't lie people's eyes out on television a hundred times a day. Media pluralism, that's the next, stupid word, but it's about what I was just talking about. That it is not possible that someone, after the media and this was recognised by Viktor Orbán and Fidesz quite early enough, is practically the most recent and almost strongest branch of power in addition to the Parliament, the government and independent institutions, cannot be in the exclusive possession of someone or someone. And the KESMA that I just told you about the 112 media, the separate government decision, the media empire out of the law, is clearly going against that. And if it is media pluralism or the independence of editorials, doesn't anyone think that the point of this is that editorials can make decisions regardless of the owners, so that when the same articles are literally published in every county newspaper, with the same photograph, what did Viktor Orbán do that day, then anyone in Hungary believes that these editorials operate independently today? I add that we look at the county papers, there are no editorials anymore, they control the whole thing from Budapest as it is. And here is the last point, which would also obviously be a very serious blow to Fidesz's propaganda machine today, to the ongoing manipulation of media relations, and, by the way, to the foundation of, among other things, Antal Rogán's telecommunications power. This is the issue of government advertising, which is also part of this proposal, which would say, in some amazing, unacceptable way, you think that it would be possible to spend public money in media, on television, on Internet portals, on Facebook, on advertising, in an objective, transparent manner, on a fair and verifiable manner. [[10.30]] This is also a point that would bring down the propaganda machine and the European Union, by the way, the system that completely overrides Hungarian legislation, the rule of law, which you operate today. They know exactly what they're doing. After all, our fellow Member of the Fidesz said in his national exposé that I had to sit down when I heard that there would be a harsh intervention in Hungarian market relations in relation to government advertising. The Hungarian market relations? Well, here's where you tell me, my fellow Member, that you are manipulating market relations with public money. It's very clear to everyone, by the way. Now think about it, this proposal would be about the fact that the media that most view media products, most people listen to or consume online, should be given government advertisements in scale. After all, these ads are not about funding buddy mediums, even if 200 people look at them and go mad at them, because they are enough of them, but, let's say, they also have to give them to those media that have almost nothing, but they still have a lot of viewers, readers, or news users, because they produce products of such quality, even if they are not pro-government. But, finally, let's get to the legal basis. I think it is amazingly charming when Fidesz Members rediscover the word subsidiarity for themselves and worry about it. It's also a pretty stupid word, it's about making decisions at the level where they're most effective and closer to people. And you are saying this so that the Hungarian Parliament and the Hungarian Government can make all the decisions here, not the Union. But tell me, where was this amazing commitment to the principle of subsidiarity when they took away the tax revenues of Hungarian municipalities? ! Then why didn't you worry here when you pressed that bloody button here in Parliament, too, personally? Why weren't they worried about subsidiarity when they took schools away from the settlements, taking hospitals away from the settlements? They are now taking away the waterworks, they have already taken away the garbage transport, all the public services that the Hungarian authorities have done on the spot, as best they can, in cooperation with the citizens who live there, in agreement that, let's say, a community might have had a say in who the school director should be, or in what way education should take place there. Then they weren't so worried about these principles. No, of course not, because it's just another false lie on your part. And, as my fellow Member has said, their entire proposal is all about the fact that they have felt the wind, that if this regulation is adopted in the European Union, and indeed it is directly in force in Hungary, this media empire is over, the propaganda world is over, the manipulation of millions of Hungarian people is over, and then the Fidesz system is over. They're getting a good sense of that. So, of course, we do not support this proposal in any way. And we are very keen to have a Hungarian delegation from the Hungarian media authority in Europe with the participation of a media authority that can restore these swine, anomalies, even in our own country. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-12-06-52	The lead speaker of the Momentum Group, András Fekete-Győr, is next. I'll give the floor to Congressman.
u2022-12-06-53	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You still don't like the press. They love propaganda, it's their favorite, but they hate the press. We're meeting in a building where you banned journalists from the corridors. After the change of era, of course, we will call them back, and we will let them back into Parliament's corridors so that they can ask everyone what they want. We are holding this debate in a building that is broadcast by public media, public media funded with our money, and from which, by the way, all opposition politicians have been banned in the election campaign. In the election campaign! After the change of era, we will build a public media that will invite all sides; in which there will be dialogue, debates, fact-based, independent and impartial public information. This will be after the change of era. But what I don't understand: did you think that the leaders and citizens of the European Union didn't see that you hated the press and loved propaganda? If Prime Minister Viktor Orbán calls off the employees of the independent press without a statement, then there will be no news of this in the world, and there will be no news in Europe? Dear Fidesz Ladies and Gentlemen, They know everything about you in the EU today. You know how Lőrinc Mészáros became a billionaire with EU money and Hungarian money, and you know how the Simicska empire was built first, and then KESMA, and you know what political climate you created in Hungary with bomb posters and Putin. And Europeans no longer want to finance this with their money. So the thing is, we got here, they don't want to pay for it anymore. And it's all connected. So the 3000 billion forints we talked about at the committee meeting, which they do not want to give to the Hungarian government now, and therefore you have been taken from the Hungarian people, which is why. It's because you hate the press and love propaganda. On 16 September 2022, the European Commission presented legislation on the freedom of European media. That's what we're arguing about, isn't it? The draft regulation builds on the action plan on European democracy, and once again I stress that the European Commission has proposed a number of measures to promote democratic participation, combat disinformation and support free and independent media. These are Hungarian interests, and these are precisely the national interests that the new political generation is constantly talking about. At the same time, these terms may sound foreign to fidesz ears, but if you want to obtain EU funds, you should get used to these terms. Let's go over what the draft decree wants. Firstly, it aims to protect media pluralism and independence within the EU, in particular against political interference in editorial decisions and safeguards against monitoring media actors, for example, through Pegasus software. It then places emphasis on the independence and stable funding of public service media, although this unfortunately also provides transparency in this system, as well as in the distribution of media ownership and public advertising. It then addresses the issue of media concentration, right, KESMA, and also envisages a new European body of independent media services, composed of representatives of national media authorities. You've made countless excuses for all of this. They also dispute the legal basis for the draft EU regulation. They are concerned that the draft regulation does not provide room for manoeuvre for national decision-making in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. The difficulties caused by the diversity of national languages are complained about in the context of the development of the internal market. On the other hand, I'd like to ask you, is this still the same party that reads the news in Russian and Chinese on public television? 'Cause that's what you're paying for in propaganda. As regards subsidiarity, is this the same party that took away schools, hospitals and tax revenues from Hungarian municipalities? However, subsidiarity is precisely about whether these institutions, these opportunities, should be there, the closest to the Hungarian people. Isn't it important for you to make decisions close to people? Then the draft regulation also focuses on the issue of public advertising. They find that the internal market is also distorted by the opaque and unfair distribution of public advertising, i.e. public funds used for advertising purposes, which can potentially be provided to incumbent national service providers, or can be used to favour and secretly support media organisations representing certain government-friendly views. Just one example: TV2 received nearly ten times more public advertising money than TV2 compared to RTL Klub. [[Sic!]] While there are more people watching the RTL Club than watching TV2. [[10.40]] We don't think that's right. After a change of era, which we are going to introduce, it is a policy of state aid advertising proportionate to consumers, i.e. reading, listening and viewing numbers. That's what we're going to do after the change of era. They also argue that it is indeed cross-border services in the case of the press. You, whose agents have been working for years to wipe out the media of the surrounding countries! You, who create a separate London fake news agency! And do you tell us this, the generation of which we consume media content from all different countries and from all different languages on the most diverse platforms? ! The legislative proposal is accompanied by a recommendation setting out a list of voluntary best practices for media companies to promote editorial independence and recommendations for media companies and Member States to increase transparency in media ownership. And let me stop here for a second. Let me say a few words on behalf of my generation. We young adults are forced to find out what is happening in the world and what is happening in Hungary through a constantly deteriorating quality and less and less free Hungarian press. And you are consciously trying to dissuade today's Hungarian society from the need for diversity and at the same time want to normalize dependent propaganda instead of real, free journalism. And all of this is related to my generation that I've had the opportunity to observe it in the last 10 to 12 years, as boys and girls my age started working on Fidesz propaganda funds as their first job in their lives, campaign televisions, and your people teach them that this journalism, that journalism is that everyone lies, there is no truth, no facts, no data, only one or the other propaganda. That's what you teach my generation at Pesti Guys, News TV, TV2, and it could be classified as public media, and that's the saddest thing. It would be right to accept the European proposal for many reasons, but I personally consider it important to save a generation from the lies forced upon them. And I would normally draw attention to the fact that the peacock is dead, not dancing anymore. He slammed a billboard with a bomb. The Orbán system's strategy for 12 years has failed, and the EU will not finance your propaganda. But what's a much bigger problem is that you no longer fund anything worth 3000 billion forints. That's the problem! If you want to accept EU money, you also have to adopt EU rules. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2022-12-06-54	The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, Mr Brenner Koloman, will be speaking from the stage. I give you the floor, Congressman, please.
u2022-12-06-55	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear House, I would like to begin with a personal memory of my speech as a speaker. In those years, when we got rid of the communist one-party system, the domestic press also flourished. The first job of my life was the Kisalföld sopron newspaper. In Győr-Sopron County, this was a county daily that was read by virtually everyone, and local radios and local newspapers were also launched, so there was a kind of encouragement that not only public life would start towards a good civil democracy under the leadership of the first freely elected Hungarian government, led by Prime Minister József Antall, but also media relations would start a free development after the communist one-party system and a European development that, in our opinion, is a fundamental condition for a balanced civil democracy. After all, in a balanced civil democracy, citizens can develop their views, including their political opinions, on the basis of the fact that they receive real and information on the basis of which well-thought-out, responsible Hungarian citizens can make responsible decisions. And then let us start by saying that many times my fellow Members with fidesz say, yes, but let us say, what is public media like in Germany; yes, that there is a balliberal media overweight in the West, and so on. I would not argue in any way that there are such signs, say, in the German public media, which I know relatively well. However, I also think it is a fact that there is no value-neutral journalism. This illusion, since I worked as a journalist at my first job before entering the university teaching career, I know exactly that there are editorial principles, and there is a owner who has a set of values. It's okay. It's not okay, but what the Fidesz one-party overpower has done in the last 12 years with the media conditions of our country. Well, that's not okay. That's not okay. I mean, let's see what happened here. Once we have a public media at the head of which is a forger convicted by an independent Hungarian court. The forger leads the Hungarian public media, convicted by a court order! By 3 April, opposition politicians could not appear again, oh, pardon, for five minutes in the public media. Then, from 4 April, you people, because this situation is becoming embarrassing in the eyes of other European nations, started bombing us with invitations, interestingly, so that you gentlemen and ladies of state can stand up and tell us that we are not going in. I would also like to pay tribute to the fact that the politicians of our conservative political community are leaving. They keep going, of course, not every day when we're invited, but we're leaving, and we're going to continue to go, despite the editorial principles, let's say, that they don't follow it in the public media, and what kind of fidesz opinion-formants say their opinions before and after the show, according to your propaganda workshops, which we said is another issue. On the other hand, I would also like to point out that this kind of distorted media situation, which is what KESMA really means, and here I would also like to say to you that as a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and as a member of the Committee on Culture, Education and Media of the Council of Europe for many years, we have discussed many reports written by good experts from the 46 Member States, in which our country has unfortunately always been a negative example, and that the Fidesz Members in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe are currently voting with Turkey and Azerbaijan in general. So everyone on the highway is confronted; because everyone sees that the media concentration of the kind that KESMA represents has a fundamental influence on political elections. This was already stated by the OSCE in 2018 and is now again stated in 2022. The fact that I have been a Member of the Kisalföld newspaper since 2018, I have also been Vice-President of the Parliament for a while now, I can never appear as one of the Vice-Presidents of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of Parliament, because you, who are sitting here, have banned me and all other opposition politicians in all regional newspapers; that you can only describe us as the lies that your propaganda industry produces, is a disgrace and a disgrace! And you're talking about subsidiarity? ! Seriously. So it's a level of cynicism that shows the unspiritedness of your system. All you care about is your own power. I would also like to state here, in the name of Jobbik, that we, as responsible conservative parties, reject the extremes against the European Union. We do not believe in the united European Union, nor do we believe in what you are doing, that you want to reverse the current integration of the European Union. After all, this House has not long been discussing your proposal that the European Parliament should no longer be elected by European citizens, but that it should be delegated. [[10.50]] So, technically, you'd be turning the clock around. It's dangerous! Our opinion is free of extremes. We believe that there are European values, that freedom of the press and media is a fundamental conservative European value. We believe that our country can best enforce national interests by looking for good alliances in European nations and not making enemies in the Hungarian Parliament, as this proposal does, and tomorrow, by a fidesz proposal against the German Bundestag and the Dutch body of representatives. Well, that is not the national interest, my honourable fellow Members, that is absolutely against the national interest, as is the case, and I say this as Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, who regularly attends meetings held by the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the European Parliament and the Heads of Foreign Affairs of the 27 Member States. [[Sic!]] So you are going against the national interest if you continue this one-party overpowering system and refuse to restore balanced civil democracy. It is very, very important that they finally realize that the situation of KESMA and the current public media in this way, in this form, is unsustainable. The Media Council would be obliged to allow immediately representatives of the opposition. Here again I have to say ceterum censeo, and I looked closely at the opposition vice-president of the ad hoc committee that elected members of the Media Council, that you were not willing to elect even one opposition delegate to the Media Council when we, the five opposition groups in the previous term, agreed on one person between us. Although we would have thought it fair if two opposition experts were delegated to the three Fidesz members in the five-person Media Council, but we could also agree among ourselves, the five opposition factions, because we are responsible for politics unlike you, if only one member was elected, we could now show, say, to the European Union, that yes, there is an order from the opposition representative in the Media Council. That is why I would very much like to welcome the part of the European regulation which will finally establish the European Supervisory Board that will act on this matter, until I hope that we will also have the change that I have just told you about. For a very long time, our party has urged that there should be a European public media that informs European citizens in a balanced way in European languages, since it can be seen in the 21st century. This would be a very important goal of European integration in the first century, since European nations can work together in a good alliance if the citizens of individual states know as much about each other as possible. I think, and I would like to talk about the regions here too, and it would also be very important to regionalise media services, because it would be possible, for example, to make multilingualism more visible, to represent the issue of different nationalities, because yes, my dear fellow Members, national minorities, is also a European conservative value. Now, on the other hand, we have your current proposal. I think that, in addition, the media relations that really developed here when the same editorial was published in all county newspapers with the same text, with the same photo of Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, I am sorry, fellow Members... I grew up in the communist one-party system in the '80s, they could have been ashamed of themselves in the communist one-party system if they had done so. You did this! And then they dare to come to the Hungarian Parliament building and say that they are subsidiarity? ! Don't be ridiculous. Seriously, no one believes you at European level. In order for our country to finally find its way back to the balanced path that I have been talking about... and once again, neither we in the united states of Europe believe in the Conservative Party nor in your anti-European policy; because we believe that the current form of the European Union is not good, we must reform it, but it can only be if we are in good federal relations with other European nations, especially with the region, with the Visegrád countries, and so on. Now, in your foreign policy and internal policy, you have betrayed the national interest from these very important mechanisms of advocacy to our country with your irresponsible policy. I think it's a very serious responsibility for you. In addition, in such a major economic and social crisis, about which President György Matolcsy said yesterday that the speech and confession of Fidesz in autumn could slowly be removed from the CD by the ministers of state the term "hilarious inflation" and the other nonsense that your propaganda claims, no, in such a very difficult situation it would be necessary to take very serious steps to restore the media relations of balanced civil democracy, and to find our way back to what we believe in, because we believe in Konrad Adenauer, but in Gasperi and Schuman, in the Christian and conservative founding fathers of the European Union, and in their vision, not in what you are trying to force us to do. The rule of law is a balanced civil democracy, one of the fundamental conditions of which is balanced media relations, the independence of justice, among other things, which, in our view, ensures the normal functioning of the social market economy, and this ensures the proper functioning of the XXI. The well-being and freedom of Hungarian citizens in the century. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from Momentum and DK.]]
u2022-12-06-56	It is now up to the lead speaker of the group of our country, Mr Novak, who will also speak from the platform. I give you the floor.
u2022-12-06-57	Dear Parliament, A lot of things can be said about media relations in Hungary, but what is required by the law to be balanced is far from being balanced. We should rely on the National Media and Infocommunications Authority's statements to try to bring in an objective sequence of numbers, not our own subjective feelings, but even this confirms that the greatest media exclusion in Hungary must be suffered by the Hungarian Movement. That was before the election, and as I look at the recent statements, that's what's been going on ever since. According to the reports on NMHH's website, news shows are the best way to avoid the Hungarian Movement. There was only 0.2 percent among politicians in the third party in the months before the elections, in the years before the elections. Unfortunately, this trend has not changed since then: 0.2 per cent, if we look at not all the news, but the appearances of politicians, and we regard it as 100 per cent. Therefore, previously, the Hungarian Movement raised an objection, but the Media Council, composed of only Fidesz members, rejected our complaint regarding public media, TV2 and RTL Club. The system of national cooperation is therefore closed to the out-of-the-system movement of our country. While all parliamentary factions had a place in the most important media monitoring body, the ORTT, before Fidesz came to power in 2010, Fidesz's electoral password has been in effect since then: - Only Fidesz! Even KDNP has not been given a place, which is absurd as if there were only one party in the most important body to monitor the supervision of the media, the national electoral committees and the ballot counting committees. Well, here we are now, unfortunately, and not much has changed, as I said, although we can say that there has been a change of magnitude, since from 0.2 percent to around 2 percent the most excluded Mi Hungary Movement. And it shows this, let's say, if you look at the latest statement on the NMHH website, the latest monthly summary, then you can see that if you look at the political appearances and the news of the various media that we consider as 100 percent, even the Dialogue, the meaningful dialogue with no demonstrable support, has three times as much media coverage as Mi Hazak has 2.1 percent of this 100 percent, and the Dialogue has 6.3 percent. [[11.00]] This is the case, the number of mentions, which are not, of course, the sensitive topics, the important fundamentals that we would like to make, these are the topics that, let's say, the governing parties or the RTL Club, are important for the Balliberal side, which is important for Brussels, and that can clearly appear, let's say, in the RTL Club. So even these numbers are cheats, the percentage statements, not to mention speaking time, which is even lower, 1.7 percent in the case of our homeland movement. But if you look at the 2.1 percent mention, you can also see that, let's say, RTL Klub or News TV doesn't even achieve this, 1.2 percent of the role is in Parliament, and since then, Hungary's Movement, TV2, and TV2 from Fidesz Mészáros Lőrinc has reached 0.7 percent. I could therefore bring these amazing statistics for a long time, which, I think, clearly show that there is no balanced information in Hungary, so that this electoral system cannot work, and this democracy, of course. But let us not stop here, let us not say that there is only a problem with the media in Hungary, even if we include the RTL Club in the Hungarian media where appropriate, then let us say beyond that that there is at least such censorship, for example, on the largest social media site, on Facebook, such an amazing censorship, that even on its own side, in its own revelations, one cannot say what one wants. Among the parties, the only party that was banned and deleted was the website of the Hungarian Movement, the only one of the politicians was László Toroczkai's Facebook page in the EP campaign in 2019, so three years earlier, and since then, not only can he not appear with his own site, but we can't write his name either, and our pages will be rolled down, even though Hungary's largest tracking site would be ours. In the midst of such media conditions, it is no wonder, of course, that Kuruc.info has become the most read right-wing news portal in Hungary, in the midst of such repressions, silences and censorship, but in any case it is the shame of the Hungarian media relations that the news is being silenced at such a level that it is not possible to obtain credible information on any other website. [[Kálmán Olga: Jesus!]] By the way, Mi Hazank Movement decided to issue 4 million copies of newspapers due to its pre-election silence, but our party contracted in vain and paid some 42 million forints of campaign support based on list setting for national distribution, the subcontractors were forced to dredge, because they were threatened by the Fidesz Mediaworks subsidiary, MediaLOG, who somehow obtained information about the agreements. So that's how the political witch kitchen, the political mafia, works. And this MediaLOG was in a monopoly position, after the government, in order to create this monopoly, did last year cancel Magyar Posta's service in the field of political publications, even though they could have obtained very serious revenue in the elections, but it is overwritten by the political interests that were developed in Gábor Kubatov's witch kitchen. Medialog thus and without the post office refused to distribute the publications of our country on a market basis, and even where the hands of the Fidesz political mafia had reached, they tried to strangle us and the companies working with us, so the activists of our country had to deliver as much as they had won millions of newspapers. So there is no level playing field at all, and of course we cannot hear about it on RTL Klub, Facebook, Brussels bureaucrats never protest, nor did they protest in 2006, when our rights of expression and other freedoms were not only trampled into mud but blood. We must therefore speak out against these violations, which are affecting more and more Hungarian people on social media, and it seems that the government has also agreed with Facebook rather than making it a clear set of rules, and, for example, obliging him to have a clear representation in Hungary or a forum for redress against their arbitrary law-breakers. Because even though it is private property, a private television cannot do anything very rightly, because it has always been a basis for the requirement of balanced information, let's say, not to apply to a news portal, but according to the law, to radios and televisions. In the same way, I think that in the case of Facebook, which is almost monopolistic, or at least the largest social media site, it would not be possible to say that you should do whatever you want. Of course, you can't put it on the entrance to a store, on the entrance to your own store, let's say I don't serve gypsies, or put something like that on a nightclub, so I don't think Facebook can arbitraryly exclude anyone from their own surfaces. And then the paid political advertisements, for which we also see quite amazing law-breakers, so that even money can't get us anything in Hungary. The Hungarian Nation, Metropol, Bors and Mediaworks, acting on behalf of the 19 county papers, have also refused to publish paid political advertisements of the Hungarian National Movement. They're following their passwords. In order to prevent other parties from appearing, they resorted to a trick that the electoral advertising price list was not published, it was not possible to publish an election advertisement, but only its referendums, if we remember, there was even a referendum so that the government propaganda could go on as a paid advertisement, so that hundreds of millions could be billed to the state. When, after this legal loophole, Mi Hazank Movement tried to make use of this opportunity in the pro-government papers to at least give up referendum ads, it was also legally rejected by the Fidesz newspapers. Therefore, as campaign leader of our country, I made an objection to the National Election Commission, which was forced to give the truth to our party, but in vain we waited for Mediaworks to be implemented, we are not a rule of law. Let's look at the public media. The Fidesz Publimont giant poster company, in violation of the principle of equal opportunities of the electoral procedure law, was willing to provide only 26 billboards and 74 citylight surfaces out of the more than 10,000 surfaces of the law, and none of these Simicska columns, if known better, contained only government propaganda, negative campaigns or Fidesz advertising for dumping. In this case, the Hungarian Movement raised objections to the National Election Commission, but according to the NVB there was no evidence of disproportionateness. While we are talking about 10,000 billboards, and they were willing to give only 26 of them, even though we asked for more in writing, in writing several times, 26 billboards and 74 citylight surfaces out of 10,000 they think are proportional to the ability to create a single list, the third way, for the third power of our country Movement. Well, that's the rule of law we are. It is also quite amazing that, in recent weeks and in the coming weeks, the National Security Committee has been investigating foreign campaign funding for the Balliberal side, which is an amazing scandal, of course, but it is also that this is being examined in closed session, and that, for example, there is no access to Parliament on the independent list. Not only because, in the National Security Committee, not only the presidency was not given in the first place, as requested, but they did not provide room for the Hungarian Movement, but in this case, although all parties should, in principle, have access to individual votes, they decide that DK or Jobbik's representative may look into these meetings, but the Hungarian Movement should not. However, we believe that we should examine in full public the campaign financing violation recognised by Péter Márki-Zay, as well as the role of Facebook, since the interference of foreign interest groups with the Hungarian elections is also a national security risk. At the same time, we should explore the other side of the CÖF, CÖKA and the Follow us 2022 Kft. and the billions of campaign spendings and resources of similar cover bodies, government cover bodies, for example, those companies that displayed the negative campaign, the embarrassing billboards, and the dirty work carried out a discrediting campaign. I don't think that's acceptable either. So, when we analyse media relations, we agree with the government that the European Union should not have any say in this, because if it didn't interfere with the situation here in 2006, and doesn't interfere with the different types of violations, the law-breakers that I'm going to give you a few more compelling examples of, then I think it's time for Hungary to take control of its fate, to settle media relations at home, of course, if necessary, to declare war on Facebook as well. The government should stand next to László Toroczkai, you can start trial trials, of course you can prevent the overpowering of Facebook with Hungarian legislation, so you have to take action. [[11.10]] We are sitting on the horse a little backwards: the European Union always wants to intervene in Hungarian domestic affairs, while I am now going to set some examples of how and the Hungarian government is completely useless in relation to European Union companies operating in Hungary's media service but operating abroad. So it's time they didn't get involved in Brussels, but when it comes to foreign based companies, then we have to say what kind of LGBTQP propaganda may continue in the media in Hungary, for example, despite the introduction of the Child Protection Act. The Child Protection Act, which fits perfectly in Fidesz's window policy, is virtually completely ineffective against the world's strongest lobby, the LGBTQP propaganda. The government and the National Media and Infocommunications Authority are trying to operate on its compliance with weak attempts, rather than going to the wall in the spirit of much-spoken opposition, as the Sixty-four County Youth Movement has called attention to in several professional submissions. Again, such a word could not be written on Facebook, since not only our country, but many national organizations have been banned, banned, citizens cannot mention, for example, the name of the aforementioned HVIM as a registered civil society organisation and an active social organisation operating legally in Hungary. So it seems that that particular red line in the area of child protection is rather pale yellow for Fidesz when it really needs to be fought. Allow me to provide concrete statistics and amazing examples. In the first year of the Child Protection Act, the NMHH received 96 notifications for infringement [[Gergely Harvester: You wrote 95!]] In no case has the authority found the infringement to be incomprehensible. Unfortunately, the Media Council cannot act against media service providers registered in other EU Member States, but they would be obliged to encourage the authorities of that State to act, which it has done only on appearance level. In recent years, for example, the Dutch media authority has been notified twice, but they have not taken the request seriously. In the first case, for example, the child protection law was violated by an episode of the Jurassic World. Krétkori camp, with an age of 7 years on Netflix, even if it is a media service provider registered in the Netherlands, since it was broadcast in Hungary. By the way, two girls confess to each other, and then a lesbian kiss snaps between them. For the second time, Disney + was complained about the Baymax series recommended from 9 years of age, in which a robot encourages one of the boys to ask his boyfriend out. In both cases, only 12 years of age was requested, which in itself is amazing, but there is more concern that even this insignificant request has been rejected. According to the file, the foreign authorities did not agree in any case with the assessment of the Media Authority, which I consider unacceptablely moderate, nor did the foreign authorities initiate proceedings for media companies registered with them. So we're sitting on the opposite horse, and it's time for Hungary to say what's going on, for example, through the Netherlands or Brussels, to Hungary. [[Gergely Harvester: Amazing!]] As much as the DK shouts out now, it is so acceptable to them that their blood pressure has skyrocketed. However, the time has to come for Hungary to take the path of self-determination and not tell us what to do in Hungary from Brussels, but for Hungary to decide that, for example, Hungary wants a media free from LGBTQP propaganda. In another case, the Foundation for Rainbow Families. The family published two versions of the advertising of the family in November 2021 by Viacom International Media Network and Comedy Central, registered in the Czech Republic, which also violated the paedophile law, but did not have any consequences. The main messages of both advertisements are that deviants can also raise children, so that raising in a rainbow family is normal and has no negative consequences. Since advertisements are suitable for the adverse influence of the physical, mental or moral development of minors, I quoted the law, the words of the law are beautiful, but then there is little of them, and in spite of the violation of the law, since it would only be possible to broadcast at night as a mere advertisement with 18 plus classifications, and as a social advertisement it would be prohibited, according to the Czech authority requested by the Media Council, there is nothing wrong with advertising. Nonsensely, they even tried to explain that the protagonists don't clearly represent deviant parents who make up a party, of course I'm the only one who adds it, they even questioned parenthood, they may just be friends or acquaintances. The series "The Selected Survivor" on the AXN channel of the Spanish company Sony Pictures Entertainment Iberia did not comply with the laws to protect children, but NMHH was not able to act effectively here either. In the program, which was viewed with 16 extra grades, there was a clear homosexual sexual act under a blanket, but with unmistakable sounds and movements referring to action. Despite the clarity of the act, the complaint was rejected by the Spanish authority, i.e. the Hungarian Media Authority, by the Spanish authority. The Hungarian authorities wash their hands, and they think everything is fine, they do not turn to the Hungarian Parliament to finally do something about the amazing regulation of the Union. According to the Spanish authority, or it can be said that according to the world's strongest lobby, LGBTQP, because unfortunately these decisions are put in the pen, I quote:, there is a lack of detail and open representation required for 18 plus ratings, or a realistic risk of serious negative consequences for minors when clearly homosexual acts are displayed under a blanket. Then I could mention the example of 2021, on August 23, Prime's Romanian channel was released that a young girl portrayed as a positive character in the series "The Local Doctor Reorders" - of course, who else is trapped in the LGBTQP lobby, I say, and is thinking hormone treatment, because she feels she is born into the wrong body. What has become of this? The result of the civil complaint was that the Hungarian authority turned to the Romanians, and the Romanians rejected the complaint in the cynical manner expected or usual of them, because they replied that they simply could not make a decision, since the scenes sent by the Media Council were in Hungarian and did not understand them. This is absurd that a Romanian-based television in Hungary can broadcast a lobby that violates the child protection law in Hungarian, and Brussels does not have a word to say about it, and they even want to tell us what to do in Hungary, that they have already basically done what they wanted through foreign-based media providers, or what Balliberal and deviant propagandaists wanted. Staying with the Romanians, there was no action against the programme entitled "Buildings" on the Romanian FEM3 channel, which includes transgenders, drag queens, men and other sick deviants, despite the request of the Romanian authorities, the Hungarian authority. In this case, the above-mentioned bureaucratic justification for not being able to examine things in Hungarian has failed to be considered a bad joke. But it is quite amazing that the core of inaction is the Hungarian law, which is unfortunately in line with the EU's Audiovisual Media Services Directive, although such dictatorships should not be allowed, because this ultimately causes them to adopt a paedophile law as a window policy, but in fact it has no consequences. According to the Directive, and according to the Hungarian law in line with it, the media authority may only impose sanctions on a media service provider established in another EU Member State if it has previously sought the media effectiveness of the State in question, but it has not acted within two months if it has determined that the media service provider has only settled outside Hungary in order to avoid stricter Hungarian rules if it has notified the Member State in writing and the European Commission of the planned punishment. What point are we at? It is difficult to follow, it is so bureaucratic and so incredibly impossible, actually making it impossible for the Hungarian authorities to act. In addition, if you have given the service provider concerned the opportunity to comment on the matter and if the European Commission has decided that the planned sanctions are compatible with Union law. [[11.20]] By the end, a good little rubber bone, which basically makes all Hungarian precautions, the protection of Hungarian children impossible. This proves, therefore, that Fidesz has virtually itself prevented effective enforcement of the Child Protection Act in force, in an overly conflict-free manner, in order to avoid any conflict with the EU that might be necessary in terms of the outcome, and in this case we can only talk about visual politics on the part of the ruling party. Dear Parliament, I ask you to allow Hungary to decide on Hungarian media matters, so that the Hungarian people can decide. In order to do this, it would be good for the most important media monitoring body, the media authority and the Media Council not only to have Fidesz members, but also to have a delegation of all factions, as in the electoral committees, as in the practice before 2010, to be able to delegate to all parties; I think that this could create the basis for a fair and transparent relationship. And the Union, Brussels, must not interfere in the media conditions of Hungary, and it is time for us to prepare for life after the Union anyway. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-12-06-58	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Now there are two-minute speeches, but this is... Yet, Congressman Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, came forward. I give you the floor, please.
u2022-12-06-59	Dear House, I was impressed by the amount of LGBTQ content you are looking at, and I am sorry that it has not developed a little more empathy in this context. But there is one thing that this comment has proved: the LGBTQ lobby is not the strongest in the world, but human stupidity. Thank you very much.
u2022-12-06-60	As no one has applied for a further two-minute speech, we would now continue the debate with the written speeches, but Congresswoman Olga Kálmán... [[Kálmán Olga: Here I am, here I am!]] He's coming in right now. Then I will give the floor to Congresswoman Kálmán Olga in a normal time frame.
u2022-12-06-61	Thank you very much. My apologies. Well, we've learned for the past 12 years that the foundation of your power is to absorb, control, control, intimidate, desinform, bring the money home and make up similar principles, well, these are the bastions of NER. What was done with the freedom of the press of the past, even Putin would be pleased to snap his fingers, or might they have learned from him? You know, it's really hard to figure out which of the dictator's samples he copied. Years ago, the Transcendent created a setup. At the time, there were 476 media owned by Fidesz, with a turnover of HUF 60 billion a year. That was in 2017. Since then, the number of press products in the Fidesz empire has been well over 500, and their financial turnover is difficult to estimate. Their script is very simple: financially or legally impossible the various press products and then purchase them. Then, one day, they created a media tete called KESMA, where all their purchasing buddies volunteered to supply their own media products. As much as I'd like to, these memories don't wear off. These events will go to the shame of history, along with your many, many other crimes. The first victim was Origo in 2015 do you remember? which, since yesterday, has become so critical to the interests of George Matolcsy's cousin and then to the son of the central bank president, Ádám Matolcsy. Then TV2, VS.hu, in 2016, the county newspapers were covered, and the iconic feature of their role in portfolio propaganda was mentioned by several speakers today, when each county daily appeared with the same Viktor Orbán interview on the day before the election. At the end of 2016, the Watcher came, then the News TV, the Free Metro, became Metropol, and, well, we remember on 8 October 2016, one of the most shocking days of Hungarian press history, when, without prior information from the employees and editor-in-chief, Mediaworks suspended the printed and online edition of Népszabadság. Then the Hungarian Nation, the Chain Bridge Radio, the Weekly Reply and the others took place. From taxes that KESMA has not been able to buy or buy, the Media Council takes away the frequency with claims, see Clubradio. The Hungarian Telegrams Office, which is reserved with purely state money, provides the news for free, thus making it impossible for other news agencies to operate, thus making it impossible for the Hungarian news only to be broadcast by MTI. He also regularly abuses it, creating a code for himself, citing even communications within the National Press Service, the content of which he is not otherwise responsible, censoring it according to his own taste, that is, the mouth of the government. Dániel Papp, who is generally referred to as a forger for his repeated forgery as a television editor, is the CEO of the fund itself, and his civil suit was therefore rejected by the court. We remember how brilliantly he can edit, cut, cut, and flaunt when someone doesn't like, when something doesn't suit political farmers. The television channels operated by the Fund, even during the break of sports broadcasts, are now mainly seen on better days than the World Championship with pro-government propaganda, and at other times they fill a significant part of the programme with direct incitement, the abuse of the enemy currently appointed by the government, and above all of the opposition to Parliament. This activity was financed by the budget by well over 117 billion in 2021 and will be allocated by 126.5 billion in 2023. They make us pay the price of their lie factories, they lie to our eyes on our money. In view of all this, it is not surprising that in the latest report, Freedom House has taken Hungary out of the EU's member states only, and has transferred it to the free zone, which has played a significant role in the media and press relations. Well, now you're scared, and you're starting to play tricks based on subsidiarity, and you're trying to make the Union think that it wants to intervene in the domestic media market. No, dear Members. The Commission would create a European media authority precisely so that the Hungarian example cannot be repeated elsewhere. The new bill wants to protect the independence of journalists and editorials for you, isn't it? The aim of the regulation is to ensure the editorial independence of each editorial board from political power, large companies and to impose transparency requirements on Member States in relation to media ownership. Well, I understand that you don't like it, how you'd like it, if European standards didn't allow you to take it, buy it, intimidate the press, how would you like it, if you couldn't have lied, flooded the domestic population, the public with an enemy image? The regulation would allow the Commission to bring proceedings before the European Court of Justice, if some Member States do not comply with the rules, so it does not like it either, I think you do. International news agencies specifically mention the Hungarian example of KESMA in the context of the development of a common set of rules, which has not yet been able to deal with EU competition regulation, although it is quite spectacularly distorting Hungarian media market relations. [[11.30]] The Commission would like each Member State to have an obligation to assess the concentration on the media market on the basis of certain criteria in terms of impact on editorial independence and pluralism. Well, you don't like that either. The draft would also set up a new EU Media Council, which would bring together representatives of national authorities in an institution. It wouldn't top it, it wouldn't override it; it would be a body formed by members of the media councils of the Member States. It would also regulate public service media, public advertising and the protection of resources in connection with the Pegasus scandal. They have something to be afraid of, don't they? Freedom, regulation, restraint in the field of public advertising, EU directives, they're all curse words in your dictionary! And now you're seducing him in the European Affairs Committee, and then here in the Chamber, that the Union, wow, really wants to interfere with national competences? Yeah, you want to get involved like the European Public Prosecutor's Office? Well, they're afraid of that, too. Why? If there's no free robbery, control, ingestion, manipulation, propaganda, then you're calling this an intervention. Reporters Without Borders since 2002 have demonstrated the state of freedom of the press in 180 countries around the world. Hungary is in the middle of the index ranking 180 countries of the world for freedom of the press, 85th place, but this is the third worst place in the EU Member States. I know you're not touched by this either, but I think you've forgotten or never knew what the word freedom of the press means. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-12-06-62	A two-minute contribution from the Fidesz Group was made by Mrs Elias Boglárka. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll try to be quick. I'd like to make a very brief observation, or rather three. The first is that the proposal before us, as the left has said, does not serve the EU's objectives. Indeed, our proposal for subsidiarity examination is in the interest of Hungarian voters, and we are sitting here in Parliament under the authority of Hungarian voters. I believe that we need to make appropriate proposals. The other thing I would like to reject is that they have given us arguments that have not been made on our part. We have clearly stated that we have concerns about the legal basis and the legal instrument. It is because we are talking about a draft regulation, and we are saying that if there are points worth considering and considering, as Mrs Hajnalka Juhász indicated, that it was the recommendation that might be worth considering in the course of the conference on the future of the European Union that we should proceed in this direction. I would like to refer here to what has been said in my speech as a speaker, and I would like to emphasise or confirm that some of the elements of the draft and several of us have stressed this could really be considered, but a directive or recommendation respecting national specificities could be a more justified instrument of EU law, since a draft regulation does not provide sufficient room for Member State decision-making, it cannot take into account the different traditions of the Member States, cultural differences or, where appropriate, historical differences. So I would like to stress that a recommendation or a directive can be considered. We have concerns about the draft regulation, which is why we have initiated this subsidiarity review. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-06-64	Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász also applied for a two-minute speech. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-65	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be very brief. It is not the highlight of my day, but the low point of my day that Momentum and DK are teaching us about subsidiarity, they are pro-government representatives. That was the bottom of the day. What we have to understand is that it was one of the greatest achievements of the Lisbon Treaty that it left this power to national parliaments, taking it from the Maastricht Treaty. Why subsidiarity testing? Because, legally, this is what we stressed with my fellow Member, Mr Boglárka Illés, Zoltán Tessely and State Secretary Csaba Dömötör. The question is Article 114. Of course, they are not listening again, but here is the question, which we have already stressed, which even Mr Jourová could not confirm whether Article 114 is the appropriate legal basis or not. That's the first step. If that's not a proper legal basis, then there's nothing to talk about. There are different issues here, but the fundamental question is whether the Commission has a legal basis or not. And, as my colleague said, the fact that we are regulating it at the level of a directive or at the level of a recommendation is not a general problem for us. But in the series of conferences on the future of Europe, citizens did not propose the regulation either, as it is a mandatory act. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-06-66	Mr Gergely Arató of the DK Group has now applied for two minutes. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-67	Thank you very much. Dear House, We have not used the word subsidiarity very much in this debate, because that is not what we believe this debate is about. That's what you're saying. That's your bullshit. If it were a directive, the problem would be why it is a directive, if it were a recommendation, that would be their problem. Ladies and gentlemen, Excuse me, but let's not look at each other like birds. Let us not think that this debate is about what the Commission's legal basis is and what is the right legal form. This debate is about you wanting to continue to hustle and limit media freedom, continue buying up and eliminating even minimal critical media organisations against you. You want to continue to use the public media as a propaganda media, continue to fill media companies close to Fidesz with public advertisements, and still do not want an independent media authority. That is the problem, dear fellow Members, and not the legal basis. That's just the reference. What you're talking about is what the legal form is, well, I'm sorry, but that's just an excuse. That's not the point. The point is that, on the one hand, they can bully the European Union and reap old propaganda wheels, and on the other, their aim is to prevent in every way European guarantees for freedom of the media and credible information, because they know that media freedom and credible information are the end of your system. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-12-06-68	I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] Since no one has made themselves known, the consolidated debate is closed. On behalf of the authors, Mr Tessely will respond to what has been said in the debate. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have 12 minutes and 16 seconds to do so. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-69	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank everyone who expressed their views in the debate. I think it is important to remind the House that we were present in a debate on the subsidiarity test. We have heard many opinions here about many things, not so much on the opposition side. The main aspect of this procedure is always the protection of Member States' competence and sovereignty. Here we are looking at whether EU action is necessary, effective and proportionate. If I may, I would like to give some answers to what has been said with a few sentences. Our fellow Member Gergely Arató made it clear that these proposals were made to encourage you and against Hungary, so to speak, on your order. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's not true!]] You're quite free to listen to your own speech, which was one of your messages. The other message was that we could not compromise. From what you have said, I can conclude that you, on the other hand, would do everything in your power to ensure that the united European states that you so long for can be established before anything else. [[11.40]] My bell-ringing fellow Member has dealt with the attack on public service news for a long time. It is true that he is not present, but let me remind you that we know what it is like when the political left attacks the public service media with full cooperation and starts against him; there was a time when they did this with physical violence, in 2018, and with continuous political pressure ever since. In the statement by András Fekete-Győr, the HUF 3000 billion EU resource has been reappeared in the same way as in the committee meeting, as if you were hoping that this source would not arrive in Hungary. We're getting used to this. [[Gergely Harvesto: That doesn't mean it's true!]] But I think that not only the government and the pro-government representatives have a responsibility in this regard, so that the Hungarians can reach Hungary, but also the opposition. It would be good for them not only to face it every four years, because that is exactly what voters think. With regard to what András Fekete-Győr has said, I think that these types of attacks can obviously come because neither our migration policy nor our thoughts towards LGBTQ-propagandists nor our stand for peace are allowed. I also did not understand why you think exactly the same as Mr Harangozó, that in relation to schools, hospitals and tax revenues, the inability of municipalities is a fitting process. I was mayor when you were on the government, and I know exactly what it's like for you to ignore the local government and make the municipalities completely indebted. We have learned a lot about Mr Brenner Koloman in his private life, and I thank you with respect, and I did not know him so closely, but I have certainly written down his sentence that we are not willing to restore balanced civil democracy. I know that from the opposition side, it would look like we didn't win the elections, but we didn't. Looks like we won it by two thirds. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Under what circumstances?]] and this shows that two thirds of the population in the country agree with us [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Come on. Gergely Harvester: That's a lie! Dr. Brenner Koloman: Big lie!]] So you don't want to split everything. Mr President Novak has said a lot about his heartaches, but a sentence that is important in any way, he has said an experience that says that there has been no sanction, because they cannot examine something in Hungarian. This was also part of the justification of the proposal, that we would try to do something here with such a common market mind, which would require a considerable knowledge of the depth of the Hungarian language. The fact that he had seen more beautiful times with the freedom of the press that we had done, I quote the woman representing him, was a strange charm from the mouth of Olga Kálmán, as was the whole speech. I've had the perfect experience of being impartial and balanced, of course, just for the sake of the joke. [[Ha-ha-ha!]] However, I think it is important in any way, because in every debate, you will find that you want to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office so much that I am interested in it, and perhaps doubt about it. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Yes, because then he'd be a brat!]] Whether this would really be an independent solution and a good solution for Hungary. In addition to the fact that eight or nine Member States did not think so, beyond the freedom of the Member States to decide on this, you would like this so much that I am beginning to turn to them with concern, even though I am honest, I have always been open. Well, thank you again very much for your participation in the debate, and I would ask you very much to support the committee's proposals by voting in Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-06-70	Dear Parliament, The decision shall take place on Wednesday's meeting. The Commission's reports on the public-data amendment of individual laws and the discussion of the draft amending proposal follow up. The government referral is T/1786. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Fazekas, rapporteur of the committee, within a 15-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-71	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear House, Honourable Members, I would like to inform you that at the meeting of the Legislative Committee held on 24 November 2022, T/1786 on the amendment of certain laws to public data was discussed. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 29 votes in favour, 4 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The bill aims to transpose the open data directive on open data and the re-use of public sector information into national law. The aim of its introduction is to encourage the Member States of the European Union to use public sector-produced and managed data assets more widely and to facilitate the efficient recycling of high-value public data sets, using advanced digitalisation tools. The Legislative Committee has adopted an amendment to the proposal, which contains linguistic and technical clarifications. Dear House, I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-06-72	I would like to ask the Secretary of State, Mr Csaba Dömötör, on behalf of the rapporteur, if you would like to speak. [[On the signal of Csaba Dömötör:]] He says he wants to speak up. In that case, before I give the floor, I would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to the fact that you have a 15-minute time frame with the closing word. There you go. I'll give you the floor.
u2022-12-06-73	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, I do not wish to take advantage of it. The bill under discussion concerns public data. These public data have market value, and if these data are available, can be processed, they can create new products that have the potential to boost competitiveness and boost the economy. The amendment is also based on an EU directive, which makes access to so-called high value datasets free. This includes spatial information, land observation, environmental, meteorological, statistical and mobility public data. The Directive also broadens the scope of recyclable public data. From this point on, they should also include data on enterprises operating in the water, energy, transport and postal sectors in the public domain. Moreover, the Directive should have been transposed by July 2021, but the Commission has not transposed the implementing acts which contain the detailed rules. At the same time, this proposal remedys this and also serves to ensure that the public data available in an increasing scale are good for the functioning of the Hungarian economy. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-06-74	Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. No one has applied for a comment in writing, and now I don't see a candidate on the monitor. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] Since there is no candidate, the debate is closed, so, obviously, I suppose, Mr Secretary of State does not wish to reply either, because there is nothing to do with it. Then I will inform my fellow Members that the decisions will take place on Wednesday's meeting. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws affecting churches and the discussion of the summary amendment follow up. [[11.50]] Government referral T/1785. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héjj, rapporteur of the committee, within a 15-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 1 December 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed T/1785 on the amendment of certain laws affecting churches. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 25 votes in favour, 4 votes against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill before us is, on the one hand, to ensure that churches are given free ownership of buildings originally built for religious purposes, which are currently used for this purpose, in so far as it is owned by the State or by a municipality. On the other hand, according to the bill, established church maintainers have the opportunity to initiate the free transfer of ownership of state-owned municipal property, which hosts the public education institutions they maintain, to take over the right of maintenance. The bill is also intended to address the issue of any change of ownership of historical and national memorial sites, which aims to ensure that national memorial sites are not excluded from the Hungarian ownership circle and that they are able to continue to fulfil their role. Ladies and gentlemen, The Legislative Committee adopted an amendment to the proposal, which included additions to linguistic and legal clarification. The aim of complementing the proposal is to help the Pázmány Péter Catholic University perform more effectively educational, research, cultural and religious tasks by ensuring that, after investing in the expansion and development of PPKE's educational properties, the growing number of vehicles is placed, taking into account the needs of the neighbouring Hungarian National Museum. In view of what has been said, the proposed legislation should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-06-76	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the State Secretary Soltesz, who is present on behalf of the rapporteur... [[For signal:]] He indicated that he wished to make use of the opportunity to speak. I give you the floor. A total of 15 minutes is available to the Secretary of State in the debate. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. I'm not gonna live with it either. Thank you, on the one hand, for the debate in Parliament, which took place a few weeks ago, and also for the comments, the improvers and less improvers. Thank you very much to the committees, including the committee on nationality, the Committee on Legislative Affairs, for all that has been added to this law. Thank you for your work. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2022-12-06-78	Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now possible for the Members to speak. Two-minute comments must not be made in the debate. I'll ask if someone would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Congressman Lóránt Keresztes points out that he wants to take advantage of this opportunity. I'll give the floor to the congressman on time. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-79	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I would just like to comment very briefly on this law. The LMP fraction can support it. We consider it very important that this law provides that real estate should not be excluded from the original recovery obligation. Obviously, this is a very important step. What I have actually asked for in relation to this proposal is a phenomenon on which I would like to ask for your cooperation or perhaps your greater attention to the government. In many cases, I see a church-owned property that is a wonderful historical monument, and it seems to be in very, very bad condition. In many cases, I have tried not only to look for church buildings but also for state monuments directly for the maintainer, the owner, trying to gather information on how to improve the consistency of these buildings, how to take steps to avoid losing valuable monuments. But why, in some cases, church-owned buildings are very difficult to obtain information, I don't really get a meaningful answer directly from, say, dioceses. Where appropriate, an architect working there will indicate that they really see the problems, but how could there be a financing problem, possibly a type of legislative problem that may limit these steps with the various expectations of historic renovation... I think it would be very important that, in practice, regardless of whether there is a building in the hands of a state, church or even private, which is part of our built cultural heritage, we should not lose these, and that together we can take steps to maintain, improve, preserve these conditions. Does the government have experience in this regard that it may be more difficult to protect such monument buildings in church maintenance? Thank you very much in advance, if you can respond briefly to this, Mr Secretary of State. Thank you, Madam President.
u2022-12-06-80	I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application, so the debate is closed. Mr. Secretary of State, do you wish to respond to what has been said? [[For signal:]] He says he wants to answer. I give the floor to Secretary of State, Miklós Soltés. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-81	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Parliament, I would like to say to Mr Fraction Manager: on the one hand, over the last ten years, we have renovated more than 3,500 churches together with our churches across the Carpathian Basin, hundreds of schools, hundreds of religious institutions. We're obviously not winning all the renovations at the same time. That's probably why you asked me why it didn't happen. Obviously, the current economic situation will slow down these renovations for a while, but if you're signaling me something we might be able to help you with, you're very welcome. There's nothing we can do to make a promise right now, but sooner or later everything's gonna happen. Indeed, we must protect the wonderful architectural and thoughtful appearance of our ancestors, and we will do what we can in the past. However, this law is indeed an opportunity... there were not too many, but a number of church buildings, which, if any, are still used in a sacral way by churches, were not used for that, but not by churches, but for some reason, by old nationalization, miscarriage, or by the old legal system, when there was a system of good lords, remained in one of the local governments or in another, which we were now able to settle in this law. (The chair was appointed by Dr. Lajos Oláh, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Thank you very much for your supportive attitude. I would really just ask you as a rhetorical question, hearing the attitude of DK and Momentum in this debate, that if they had, let's say, steered together, all these issues would have been resolved among themselves, because I must say that both Jobbik and you have had a supportive attitude in this debate, while the extreme or left-wing parties I have mentioned have completely attacked the churches and this law. So thank you very much for all those who support and support this. We are doing something to protect the values that you have raised, and by introducing national memorial sites into the law, we are even more protective of what is Hungarian, which is national, which serves this country, and we do not want anyone else to take it out of this country with bad intentions or their intentions strengthened. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-06-82	Thank you. Welcome, everyone. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Wednesday's meeting. Dear Parliament, The debate on Commission reports and summary amendments to the proposal to amend certain economic laws and certain laws concerning the management of assets and postal matters will follow. The government referral is T/1842. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Sándor Fazekas, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-12-06-83	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 1 December 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/1842 amending certain economic laws and certain laws concerning the management of assets and postal matters. Bill No. 1. [[12.00]] The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 22 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill before us is to amend the regulation of the Minister for Economic Development, as well as other laws concerning the management of state assets and economic law, in order to facilitate the application of the law. The proposal contains provisions on amendments to 14 laws in total. LXXVIII 1993 on certain arrangements for renting and disposing of apartments and premises. In addition, the Commission considers that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. With regard to the amendment of the Postal Services Act, it can be seen that the use of the Priority Letter by the population is very small and that the relevant EU legislation does not impose binding rules on domestic lead times. The proposal adapts the quality requirements to a reasonable level of expectation that at least 85% of priority mail is to be delivered by the end of the second working day following the previous dispatch. CXXXVIII of 2018 on the implementation of public civil engineering investments. The purpose of the amendment is to bring the provisions of the State's legislation on civil engineering investments into line with asset management rules where this is necessary and justified. The need to amend the law also justifies the fact that the implementation of the National Athletics Centre is coming to an end. In order to organise ownership of the assets involved in the investment, it is absolutely necessary to adopt the amendment, which is closely linked to the complete closure of the investment of the National Athletics Centre. If this can be achieved by the end of this year, the closure of the investment will no longer be hampered by any irregular ownership situation. Dear Parliament, Given what has been said, I believe that the bill before us should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-12-06-84	Thank you. I would like to ask the author if he would like to speak. [[Dr. János Fónagy: In the end, Mr. President, if possible.]] At the end. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-12-06-85	Mr President, Dear House, Mr President, you mentioned that the Committee on Economic Affairs, of which I am a member, did not put forward a rapporteur, but I would like to speak in the detailed debate on the two amendments which have been tabled there, since both are about the conditions under which rentals and apartments are to be rented. And I would like to say here that if someone, say, could have used a discount option in the 1990s, but they couldn't participate in it for objective reasons, I am open to seeing that there are circumstances to be appreciated, let us say, the high number of children and the keeping of future taxpayers in Hungary or the possibility of expanding the family, along which this can be debated. What I don't understand from the government is that you're aware of the figures, and you're obviously looking at how the housing stock is constantly dwindling. Fidesz MEPs also run local governments, they also see that the number of apartments is extremely low, and what is even more irritating is that they regard housing almost exclusively as a social issue, which I myself reject. I think this is basically an economic and sustainability issue, one of the legs of the programme of prosperity in the homeland, which is needed to keep the taxpayers of the future at home, so that as little as possible to migrate abroad under duress. That is why I think that the national interest is contrary to the fact that the government is letting the housing stock go down, but with a public housing programme, future taxpayers would be more easily born in Hungary on the one hand, because the second most typical reason for not having children behind humiliatingly low salaries and uncertainty may be housing scarcity, housing problems, and, on the other hand, they do not even get to the point of discussing the conditions under which the remaining housing stock is to be transferred to private property. Fetishing private property is another historic failure of this government. If we look at the region's data, there is a very high percentage of the ownership of the property. The solution to this is not, as on the Balliberal side, often to touch private property. God forbid. The solution would be to have a conceivable crowd of rentable apartments, let's say, one tenth of the vacant half-million-dollar housing stock from the state and local government might be better used as a rental than just letting this stock rot down and disappear. The fact is that the tenant housing stock will have to be upgraded, and then it will appear in the system at a percentage, but it is no coincidence that in the entire Central and Eastern European region there is an extremely high percentage of property owned within all properties, and in Hungary it is the highest. And what we see is that there are hundreds of thousands of Hungarian people who, say, as small entrepreneurs or educators, drag this country on their backs, they may have a purpose for family expansion or family formation, they would have a childbearing purpose, but because of the lack of housing, they do not have the opportunity to do so. Many people make the decision to go to Western Europe, but if the child is born there, it is socializing there, perhaps we can see that it will be difficult to become a Hungarian citizen who is replacing the lack of socialization here, say, here, in this country, we have two or three children, or, more fortunately, four children. The thing is that the best thing to do is to not have to leave Hungary under duress, but to do so requires concept and thinking. Once again, the two amendments that worked on the subject came in on the part of my debateable fellow Member with the LMP. I do not want to put in an unfair position families that have been waiting for a predictable settlement of their housing situation since the 1990s, but this has not eliminated the problem of hundreds of children's commitments without exaggeration, thousands of people can stay away every year because the housing system is not okay, because there is a lack of a rental segment of their own property, which is a very large number of Hungarian families, that if it were affordable, it could be planned for a long term, it could be either a family establishment or a hallway or a place of fulfillment. The fact is that this is not something the government is paying attention to, and this is a historical failure, and unfortunately it is also reflected in demographic data. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-12-06-86	Thank you. I see another comment. I give the floor to László László Keresztes of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-87	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I'd just like to talk to him very briefly. It's a salad law that's in front of us, changing 13 laws. I can essentially conclude that the LMP will not be able to support this proposal, since it has a number of elements that are essentially about the recovery of state wealth, public wealth. Technically, we can use the password of neoliberal rationalisation to characterize this proposal, but I would like to refer to two parts of it, on the one hand, of the matter of mail. In addition to Szeged, Pécs and Baranya were hit hardest by recent postal closures, to be quite precise, and in this context the answer I received from the government was insufficient. The closings in Baranya, if you look at the villages of Baranya, are affecting the municipalities of Baksa, Berkesd, Drávaszabolcs, Töttös, Lippó, Sajk, Hetvehely, Hobol; a total of 5400 people were affected by postal closures. And in the city of Pécs, we can virtually say that the entire eastern part of the city has been left without care. This puts an amazing number of families in a difficult, hopeless situation. In Pécs, the post office on Baltica Street, Illyés Gyula Street, the post office on Black Diamond Square, the post office on Szigeti Customs, Jurisics Miklós Street, Szabadságharc Street, Surányi Miklós Street, Zsolnay Vilmos Street, Honvéd Square and Zingő Street will be closed. In addition, a very short, short-spoken, you might say, that in this way, I have received a written answer to a question of the public's needs and interests, which means that these closures can be resolved through redeployments. I find this quite amazing. [[12.10]] Dear Secretary of State, When the government talks about it and they write in different answers that they are not a permanent closure, just some sort of transitional measure, how is that to be understood? When will these post offices be reopened, and how do you think that, let's say, in the eastern part of the largest city in Transdanubia, tens of thousands of people will be dealt with by redeployments from downtown or other post offices on the outside of the city? I think it's incredibly irresponsible. The people of Pécs and Baranya are looking for a valuable answer to this question. The second is that the salad law also amends the law on enforcement. I cannot ignore what happened here at the Committee on Justice, or at the Committee on Legislative Affairs. Not long ago, however, encouraged by what Minister of State Répássy, Deputy Minister Judit Varga, said that it was not acceptable to put it this way, Mr State Secretary, that the fact that the President of the Faculty of Executives of the Hungarian Court may still be a man who is subject to extremely serious corruption charges, I, in awe, presented a bill-modifying proposal that would eliminate the possibility for a person to no longer be able to perform specific executive tasks in such a case when he is already charged with serious crimes, but still remain president of the Hungarian Court Executive Faculty. By the way, I found it extremely outrageous that both committees voted against this proposal and did not allow it to be included in a series of subjects. In particular, the President of the Hungarian Faculty of Executive Law and the former Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Justice, according to the Public Prosecutor's Office, established a corruption relationship as early as 2018, and the President of the Executive Faculty, according to the Public Prosecutor's Office, paid approximately HUF 80 million in bribes to György Schadl. [[Sic!]] For him, who has now been in custody for over a year. More specifically, György Schadl gave bribes to the Fidesz Völner Pál, who, in this way, abused his influence, his options, and practically served the enforcement mafia for György Schadl. The District Attorney's Office asks Pál Völner for eight years and György Schadl for ten years. We believe that the presumption of innocence is a very important constitutional principle, but at the same time it cannot extend to the fact that a person who has been persecuted and accused of such a serious charge takes such an important public position, and it is right to be angry with society, so that György Schadl can remain in position. And I think that it makes a very strong contribution to an extremely low level of public confidence in justice. We believe that this legislation is indeed wrong, and we agree with the successor of Pál Völner, State Secretary Répássy, that these laws must be changed, because this situation cannot be tolerated. I am therefore deeply sorry that this was not given the opportunity, and I would ask Mr Secretary of State that I will again submit this proposal called lex Schadl, so that it can finally be replaced from the office of President of the Executive Faculty by György Schadl, who saw the chance for the government side to see that this situation is not a viable situation; and he gave me the opportunity to call this infinite corrupt man, who, according to a court ruling, cannot be called Hungary's most corrupt executive anymore. I think it's a decision that, even if it's late, it has to be made for the National Assembly so that he can be replaced in this way. I think that in this case we need to see how many people's lives have been ruined by the executive mafia with this serious corruption, so this is the case that is otherwise linked to this salad law, in which I would definitely like to ask for the opinion of the pro-government representatives, the government side. It won't depend on me, I'm going to submit this proposal again. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2022-12-06-88	Thank you, Congressman. I don't see any further comments. Dear Parliament, The debate is now closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2022-12-06-89	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill before you is to amend the mandate of the Minister for Economic Development and to facilitate the interpretation and application of certain laws concerning its responsibilities. The bill introduces provisions for the protection and more accurate information of creditors, in addition to technical amendments aimed at improving the efficiency and transparency of winding-up proceedings, which may fall within the scope of economic law. In addition to the bankruptcy law, the establishment of administrative procedures and data management rules relating to the restructuring expert certificate also requires the amendment of the restructuring law. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to the provisions of the Law on State Property and National Property which assists the interpretation of the law, the amendment regulates the rules on the movements of property between shareholders in the light of the termination of the IT interface for the transfer of state assets intended for discharge. With the amendment of the National Property Act, the annexes to the Act containing state-owned corporate holdings in national assets and a list of property for sport purposes, which are of paramount importance for the national economy, are renewed. The Act on the Erzsébet Camps is amended concerning the management of state assets. With this amendment, the Erzsébet Foundation for Children in the Carpathian Basin will own a state-owned property currently operated by the Foundation, which will assist the Foundation in its tasks related to the recreation, camping and culture of children. By amending the Act on the taking-over of certain public housing tasks by charitable organisations, the residential properties covered by the law, but not yet transferred, can also be transferred to the property of the Public Benefit Nonprofit Limited Liability Company for the performance of the public service contract with the company in accordance with the original legislative intention. The above also includes a housing law clarifying the procedural rules governing the exercise of the right to purchase public and municipal property. Assuming that my fellow Member Z. Karpat's contribution is part of this section of the law, allow me to reflect on what has just been said. Among us, an old disagreement is that the government advocates and supports the creation of rental arrangements for rentals and apartments, or, basically, the construction of owned dwellings, i.e. privately owned dwellings. The point of our repeated justification is that in Hungary, but I believe that in Central Europe, housing and home creation are basically tailored to property, and the vast majority of people are safe by creating their homes in own-owned property and helping to create homes there. In any case, we consider the apartments to be a temporary option. The issue of social housing is also natural, and its creation is primarily classified and classified as belonging to the interests of the local government. The provisions amending the Postal Services Act relate to the development of postal services, the promotion of adaptation to changed residential needs and the creation of safe working conditions. My fellow Member, I think, has adapted to this stage the measures that are currently being taken to modernise Magyar Posta and to reduce energy costs, in particular, as a result of the energy crisis and the inflation effects of the war. [[12.20]] The two are essentially at the same time and serve the same purpose. Ladies and gentlemen, Several times in the last few days, the current series of measures concerning the Hungarian Post has appeared in the walls of the House. At present, Magyar Posta operates around 2600 post offices in the European directives for countries of this size, such territorial units and such population sizes instead of around 1400-1500 post offices. This is important because Magyar Posta is in the competition sector, so any budgetary allocation that exceeds the level set out in the European directives is EUR 15 million per year and is linked to this 1400-1500 post office constitutes prohibited support. Therefore, the financial provision of Magyar Posta's operation has always been a significant task for the current government in recent years and decades, but also for the governments before that. In the present proposal, I also pointed out that the audience of Magyar Posta has changed, that the demands for traditional postal services have changed, but in addition to the debate, in a large part of the country there are remote settlements, and there is a layer of population, primarily related to age, that insists and has become accustomed to old postal services. The above mentioned still acceptable operating costs, such as the level of satisfaction of the public service provider, as well as the additional costs of some 20 billion, which have already been incurred this year, have forced the government to speed up the modernisation process that has been under way for many years. To this end, the lowest traffic in the capital has been closed in 35 post offices, and we have ordered the temporary recess of 366 country post offices until spring, March of next year. The former is intended to reduce slimming down and modernisation, and the latter is essentially intended to reduce significant energy costs. At the same time, we have been pushing for it for many years, and I very much hope that we will also have your support in starting to modernise a 150-year-old system for a country of this size and not for such a population, because, in addition to the changed needs for it, this needs to be modernised and changed. Of course, the service infrastructure of Magyar Posta must be maintained and strengthened, all the logistical skills it is currently exercising, and I believe that in the future it will have to exercise it by regaining the market areas now covered by another. This is where I think primarily about parcel delivery services. I trust that we will have your support, and we will have it so far, and I hope that we will have it in the future. By the way, in the last three weeks, I have personally negotiated with more than 50 mayors, and we have discussed all the opportunities facing the municipalities. This means that in these paused places, if the local government accepts 50% of all costs, we now see the possibility of reopening them in January due to the progress of the time in January at the end of December. At the same time, almost all mayor colleagues agreed that the methods that have been proven in Western Europe, which have been introduced to a significant extent in Hungary in recent decades, are themselves considered important and possible. In Hungary, there are mobile mails in more than a thousand settlements, and according to the post contracts, the vast majority of mayors have shown openness on the basis of so-called partnerships, so when an institution engaged in other basic activities, see the Austrian, German, English examples. So I would ask the Member to support these local initiatives on the basis of the reasons put forward. Dear House, During the parliamentary committee's work, the bill has been substantially amended on a number of points. The purpose of the amendments to the Law on State Crafts is to complement the rules on the settlement of ownership of assets arising from the investment, thus including the existing rules on railway assets created in connection with public works. The urgent amendment facilitates the complete closure of the investment of the National Centre for Athletics. The additional proposals include, inter alia, the amendment of the Law on the Central European Foundation for Education, the purpose of which is to lay down provisions on the foundation's assets. In addition to the above, the amendment proposed by the Committee provides for the granting of free municipal ownership of the state property necessary for the local government's task and development, which is affected by the investment of Normafa Park. Dear House, The Commission's amendment in Parliament's decision-making introduced further codification and language-rights clarifications to establish linguistic and legal coherence in the text. Thank you for the committee's supporting professional work, which has contributed to clarifying, clarifying and supplementing the text of the bill from a professional point of view. Dear Parliament, In my view, the regulatory objectives set by the bill will further rationalise the management of national wealth, make it more efficient to invest from budgetary sources, generate value and increase national wealth, and are capable of strengthening the confidence of economic operators in the legal system. That is why I ask this House that T/1842: Please support bill No 1 and its summarised amendment. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-12-06-90	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Wednesday's meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on the amendment of the laws concerning the financial sector and the debate on the draft amending proposal. The government referral is T/2029. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Sándor Fazekas, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-12-06-91	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee discussed T/2029 at its meeting on 2 December 2022. a proposal for a law amending the laws concerning the financial sector. [[12.30]] The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 27 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The bill before us is intended to ensure the sound functioning of the financial intermediary system, in line with the ongoing changes in market processes and conditions and with the requirements of technical progress. Digitalisation in the financial sector represents the greatest opportunity to make progress in the vision of both the availability of services and the improvement of customer satisfaction. In addition to general and in addition to discussion, the broad and comprehensive approach that the legal approach to writing is not satisfactory and that the provisions of Article XXI do not apply. It hinders digital development and can also be considered to be fully restrictive of competition. In order to remove the above obstacles, the bill also includes a review of several elements of the financial intermediary regime, including amendments to a number of laws on credit institutions, capital markets, insurance, cash flow and voluntary cash registers, as well as to the Hungarian National Bank for the supervision of the financial intermediary system. The primary objective of the amendment to the law on mortgage credit and mortgage bonds is to regulate the new model of refinancing. mortgage credit institutions primarily carry out refinancing activities, providing long-term resources to commercial banks for the payment of mortgage loans. In addition to maintaining a well-functioning model of refinancing through the sale and repurchase of a self-reimbursement, the amendment will provide as an alternative the possibility of refinancing under the cover of mortgage law established on a mortgage credit claim. The regulated solution allows the mortgage credit institution to provide refinancing, not at the level of individual transactions, but at portfolio level. The bill also includes an obligation to harmonise legislation, on the one hand, with regard to the pilot system of market infrastructures based on shared ledger technology and, on the other hand, with regard to some EU directives. Given what has been said, I believe that the bill before us should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-06-92	Thank you, Congressman. The author indicated that he would like to comment at the end. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. I give the floor first to Z. Carpathian Daniel of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-12-06-93	Mr President, Dear House, There is a very important section of this proposal, which did not receive the attention of its own weight during the general debate, and this is about taking free cash and, where appropriate, buying in a trader that meets certain conditions of money management, it may also be a cash refund for card and other purchases up to a certain amount. I would like to call on you to reconsider these proposals. Speaking of the challenges of the digital age, this is okay, the proposal is okay in itself, but I am confused about, for example, the 150,000 HUF cash withdrawal limit. Let's just move past how irritating it is to have to pay for access to your own money over any limit. Normal banking would be to thank you very much for managing your money, obviously, as long as you keep it with us, we'll put it here and there, we'll use it, and we'll try to look after it, but we won't charge you extra for giving your own money back. So, in some ways, the system that not only exists in Hungary, but that is where it peaks most. So, if you're going to touch this, why doesn't this HUF 150,000 threshold be weighted by at least the inflation since the introduction? In the same circle, this limit of HUF 150,000 could be brought closer to reality with a reasonable, life-like upper limit, and a lot of Hungarians could get their own money there free of charge at least. And I think the same thing about the sum of 40,000 forints. I feel a little out of the ordinary putting it in there. This is better than nothing, of course, we accept it, but again we see that in a year or two, we will definitely have to touch it. It might be more worthwhile to pass a law which, in a manner that follows inflation, should be modest and, according to the data provided on the basis of the HCSO, raises these limits every year. The particularly irritating thing is that with a quick search, anyone can find that almost 11 million bank accounts have been held in Hungary, and there are over 400 thousand Hungarian customers who pay at least HUF 5 thousand per month for account management fees and such basic expenses. It bothers me very much, it annoys me very much, it offends me that financial experts regularly say, referring to the alleged indiscretion of Hungarian customers and the supposed low level of financial culture, that we are practically customers of insufficient attention, for which these unjustified costs are being weighed down on us. And I say that in what case the services provided by the same multinational banking networks should be compared between the British, French, Scandinavian and Hungarian. And what do we find? To say that, in the British financial system, there is a genuine free-of-charge bank account package, even up to the average level of payment, at least in previous years. In Hungary, it is almost impossible to achieve the same. The bank account costs are very high, and I risk being at the top 3 at European level in this country, where the governments of the time are correct to please the banks, and not just the current ones have done their best. Bank sector special tax, remember? Could it be passed? The vast majority of them could be passed through. Financial transaction tax, remember? More than $200 billion. Can you transfer it? Until the last forint, even for entrepreneurs, there is a confession from the banks on paper on this, and the legislator has not done anything about it. So here you really did your best for the banks: EBRD pact, agreement with the Banking Association, market rate application for the foreign exchange credit conversion, which is good for the banks, it was really bad for the customers, so be honest about that. So they did everything they could to make this financial system feel good in Hungary. On the other hand, we have come to the conclusion that there have been some amazing rise in fees and charges linked to a card and account in recent years. You can also earn very quickly that while in 2010 there was an average credit card fee of HUF 4250, in 2021 it was HUF 6270. So there are some where bank costs have increased with inflation levels, some where they have increased by several times. But if costs can be inflation followers, why can't the free cash withdrawal limit follow inflation? Then why do Hungarian people have to pay to get their own money? It is quite amazing, therefore, that for an average client, his bank account is only HUF 1600 a month, but I tell you, there are hundreds of thousands of our countrymen who have this amount three times the size of it. In this regard, as a better-looking Member, I put down a very serious conservative family protection proposal years ago, and this is the construction of a tax-free bank account. The principle of this is that we achieve to an average salary that basic operations are free of charge for everyone. Obviously, I'm not talking about serious stock exchanges and investment issues, basic transactions up to an average salary, and up to an average salary, so the cost of the bank account is either zero or a very, very tolerable. I think that this banking system uses a lot of money, sometimes fraudulently, sometimes fairly, but in every normally functioning economy in the world, banks are basically trying not to maintain themselves from account fees and transaction fees linked to the account, but from being fair to customers, asking them to use the client's money, doing this properly, where appropriate investing in regulated, safe conditions, thanking them nicely, but they do not want to reduce additional costs on customers. This is not the case in Hungary, it is outrageous that this is not the case, which is why I recommend the construction of the free bank account. At the same time, I will, of course, present this proposal for a decision so that we can discuss more widely how to help not only customers. Not only are we talking about consumers, each person concerned, Hungarian, is a family member and a member of a family who may have the possibility of being taxed several times because, in the case of a family of three and counting three bank accounts, very, very serious monthly costs do indeed arise. Let's get the Hungarian people out of this! Thank you for your attention. [[12.40]]
u2022-12-06-94	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-12-06-95	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, This cash back service, mentioned by my fellow Member Dániel Z. Carpathian, is a service that exists in many Western European countries. Here, on two occasions, there are 40,000 forints in the current proposal, from ATMs, and on two occasions from cash-recording machines a total of 150 thousand forints of cash can be taken free of charge, without any transaction fees. I agree with you that I believe that the healthy situation is that banks are fighting for customers with discounts, cheap packages, absolute minimum handling costs and not packages that hit these families. We have taken a number of steps in this direction in the past period, but this current bill, with this previously projected service, is helping people who have greater cash use, although I think it is gratifying that the development of a third of card payments now exceeds the amount of cash payments could be further enhanced. We have also discussed a number of legislative proposals here in recent years that favour progress towards non-cash and various digitalisation solutions. I think that in the coming years, we still have work to do on legislation in some form of regulation of the fintech world, as it is an existing world; digital banking, various financial technologies, innovations are influenced and present in our lives, and it is a shame to deny it. It is important here that there is an adequate legislative environment. I have contacted our ambassador in several countries where such a legislative environment already exists for these fintech companies, the innovation environment that is right to lively, and if Hungary or Budapest can be such an innovation centre in Central Europe, as we can now see at many other startups. At the same time, I think it is important that we move towards digitalisation in the bill, it is important to strengthen digital awareness, and now, from education to adults and even older people, there are countless trainings available in local governments where they can learn how to use digital tools and computers. And let us not forget that, as a result of the negotiations with the European Commission, the current bill also reduces the period of the transparency procedure from 60 days to 45 days, and the fine increases from 20 million to 50 million forints. So we're going to take another step in keeping the law, and if someone doesn't comply with the law, we're going to be able to impose great penalties in a quick procedure, which could have a deterrent effect. That is why I am pleased that the time for the transparency procedure will also be reduced, and in this way we will be able to witness a faster procedure. That is why we have also said in the general debate, and we can also say that the KDNP fraction will support the bill, seeing the TAB modifiers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-06-96	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Éva Sebők, from the Momentum Group, for a two-minute comment. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-97	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I would like to draw attention to something that is a very topical subject right now. I am completely right about the sounds that say that we need to move banking towards digitalization and personal finances. I also agree that this could reduce banking costs in the long term. At the same time, we are currently in a period where there are mass bank accounts and ATM terminations in the country. In my constituency, where I come from, the fact that there is a critical problem is that there is a settlement from which access to money disappears, while these are settlements where the use of cash is still significant, especially in view of the fact that there is a thick domestic holding and the small trade resulting from it, where there is obviously no credit card payment yet possible. Moreover, the demographic composition of these settlements is one where there is even stronger attachment to cash use, there are more mistrustful demographic groups, and there are mistrustful demographic groups to banks. Banking and the transition to digital banking are hampered by further reducing this confidence by eliminating ATMs and closing branches. These people still need a personal presence, and right now, the government is not doing anything to stop this process, which is further exacerbated by group postal closure. So I ask you very much to consider what should be done to stop this process, because it will cause brutal problems primarily in small settlements, and the smaller the settlement, the more. Thank you very much.
u2022-12-06-98	Thank you very much. Éva Sebők was two minutes old, but there is no two-minute window for a time frame, so the two minutes of Momentum went down, Congresswoman probably thought so. [[Eve Scars nods.]] I do not see any further contributions; the debate is closed. I'll ask the author. [[For signal:]] The author wants to answer. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-12-06-99	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, At the end of the parliamentary hearing of the bill amending the laws governing the financial sector, I thank you for the support and agreement expressed during the hearing on this proposal. As has been said by almost all my fellow Members, it is a highly professional, technical amendment, even if these rules are incorporated into the operation of the sector in our everyday financial activities and practices. The vast majority of the amendments tabled and accepted by the Legislative Committee are also technical clarification. However, one subject of the amendments deserves to be named and highlighted, as the comments we have here prove, and this is the amendment of the Payment Act. With this amendment, it will be possible to add to the possibility of taking free cash from the ATM twice a month, so that the consumer can receive cash from the beneficiary providing cash back services twice a month in Hungary without the payment service provider charging fees or charges until the cash withdrawal does not exceed HUF 40,000. The essence of the cashback service is that the beneficiary, i.e. the trader, will lock the payment account behind the credit card in a higher amount than the consideration of the service, and the difference will be transferred to the payer in cash. This way of taking money allows the user not to have to search for an ATM in order to obtain cash. On the subject of my fellow Member, Mr Z. Carpathian, I would just like to confirm what Mr Nacsa said by the fact that the financial government and the government are primarily calling for cash-delayed processes, so we believe that we have taken serious steps forward, whether by the general dissemination of online cash registers or by other measures. At the same time, I agree with what my fellow Member has said that we have legislative options here in the future. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, thanking you for your support for your cooperation, I would like to ask that, together with the government-supported amendments, T/2029. Law No 1 shall be adopted. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-06-100	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Wednesday's meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain employment laws and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. Government referral T/1845. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. [[12.50]] First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Dávid Héyj, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-12-06-101	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 1 December 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/1845 amending certain employment laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. By 24 votes in favour, 4 votes against and 7 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The main objective of the bill before us is to fulfil our obligations of harmonisation. The adoption of the proposal could bring about the transposition of EU provisions on transparent and predictable working conditions and on work-life balance. Thus, the guarantees laid down in the Directive will be fully secured for workers, contributing to encouraging the coordination of work and private life. Ladies and gentlemen, It should be stressed that the transposition of that Directive into national law will double the number of father's days, as a result of which the persons concerned may have a 10-day period after the birth of their child. In the context of the bill, it should be pointed out that, in the legislative process, it was not enough to amend the provision on paternity leave in the labour code alone, given that all the legal entities mentioned in the legal acts were included. It should also be pointed out that until the age of 3 the child is entitled to a parental leave of 44 working days, which can be issued by his employer at the time of his request. The draft law also provides for the transposition of caregiver's leave, according to which a member of his family or a person living with him must be cared for for for serious health reasons may be exempt from availability and work for a maximum period of 5 working days. In order to ensure more flexible working conditions for parents with small children, the child may be asked to change the place of work and the working order, or to employ them in the framework of teleworking or part-time work until the child is 8 years old. Thanks to the request of the Legislative Committee, a woman can be assigned night work from the age of 3 to the age of 10, and a single worker from the age of 3 to the age of 10 can only be assigned to her child by written consent. Furthermore, the predictability of work is increased by the provision of the package of laws that the previously notified working time schedule can be changed by collective agreement only 48 hours before the start of work at the latest. It is a new element in the proposal that the employer should provide the statutory training required for the performance of the job tasks free of charge. Dear House, The new sections of the bill may enter into force from 1 January 2023 if they are adopted by Parliament. It should be noted that, in addition to the interests of workers and families, the bill takes into account the burden-bearing capacity of the budget and the opportunities and room for manoeuvre of businesses. In view of this, the proposal should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-12-06-102	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he wants to speak now or at the end. [[Dr. János Fónagy: In the end, Mr. President.]] Thank you very much. The author wishes to comment at the end. Dear Parliament, The designated Committee on Enterprise Development did not present a rapporteur. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. I give the floor to Eve Scars, from the Momentum Group. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-103	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I've talked a lot about this topic in the last few weeks. There are a lot of suggestions made by the Momentum faction about the text. We also submitted modifications. Not too surprisingly, none of the modifiers received the support of the governing parties, so they could not finally be incorporated into the final text. At the same time, we welcomed the fact that one of the problems we drew attention to was finally modified by the government itself, so that the three points originally nominated that could lead to infringement proceedings were reduced to two. Unfortunately, these two are an awful lot. We do not agree with the opinion of the Legislative Committee that the freedom for fathers would have increased from 5 days to 10 days. We believe that in the overwhelming majority of cases, this remains a theoretical option, since 40 percent for the second 10 days is so low that the previous 5 days will actually take place in a large part of the fathers. We would also like to draw attention to the fact that, in fact, the text that the governing parties wish to adopt still does not solve the greater involvement of fathers in family life, it continues to preserve the disadvantages of women in the labour market, and we therefore believe that it will cause significant further delays compared to other countries in the European Union. All in all, it must therefore be said that we expect that, from the proposal that will eventually be presented to Parliament, one, but rather two, infringement proceedings will follow; we expect that no substantial improvement in the situation of Hungarian families will occur; and we expect that the proposal that will eventually be adopted by the governing parties will not allow the labour market to make any difference in substance, either in terms of efficiency or in terms of cultural change. We consider it a sad and historical sin against the Hungarian families, if this is adopted in this form, therefore the Momentum fraction will not be able to support this proposal in this form. Thank you very much.
u2022-12-06-104	Thank you. I don't see any further comments. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'll give the floor to the author. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-12-06-105	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The government's goal remains to protect the work-based society, and to take family-friendly measures that promote Hungary's development and underpin our future. The proposal for a Employment Law before you includes changes that help to coordinate work and private life, making working conditions more predictable and transparent in Hungarian workplaces. Government economic policy has been successful over the past 12 years, as well as outstanding results in domestic employment policy. Today there are about one million more people working than in 2010, and for five months there have been more than 4.7 million people employed in our country, which has never been done before. The employment rate exceeded 80 per cent, which is much higher than the average of the 27 Member States in the EU, even though in 2010 we were still among the hosts in this indicator. The number of job seekers is also very low. October was the fourth lowest measure ever measured, and this was the most favourable level only in the summer months. According to the latest figures, the unemployment rate remains one of the most favourable in the European Union and one of the largest reductions has been achieved by Hungary since 2010. The government also acts with an action plan of 11 points to protect full employment in order to ensure the safety of Hungarian families. Over the past decade, the Hungarian government has also achieved visible successes in family politics. Productivity Improved [[Sic!]] Indicators, including tax incentives, home-building and overhead support, supported by legislation to coordinate work and private life. The Hungarian family support system in Europe is one of the most generous, supported by the government with all the tools at its disposal. Ladies and gentlemen, During the general discussion of the bill a few weeks ago, we presented and explored the substance of the regulation in detail. [[13.00]] It is proposed to double the number of father's days by transposing the EU directive on work-life balance into national law, and to have 44 working days of parental leave until the child is 3 years old. Labour law rules thus further encourage fathers to share in the care and training of their children as equally as possible. The bill also provides more flexible working conditions for small children. Accordingly, parents may apply for changes to their place of work and working arrangements, employment in the framework of teleworking or part-time work until the child is 8 years of age. The draft law also provides for the transposition of carers' leave, whereby, under certain conditions, the worker may be exempted from his/her obligation to make available and work for up to 5 working days. The proposal also complements the cases of termination bans, i.e. the employer cannot terminate the employment relationship during paternity leave, parental leave and carers' working time allowance, which represents a high level of protection for workers. The proposal also includes harmonisation of legislation on the transposition of the directive on transparent and predictable working conditions. In this context, the bill will be extended by new rules on the obligation to provide information and probation on employment status. Compliance with the Directive is also served by guarantees regarding the modification of working time arrangements, which contribute to the transition of workers to a more predictable and safer form of employment. In addition, certain provisions have been clarified in order to ensure full coherence of the proposal. The conditions for taking parental leave, such as the time spent in one year of employment, have been simplified. Furthermore, the deferral was introduced instead of refusing freedom. This replaces the rule of amendment of the published date of leave and allows for the deferral of leave, with the exception of paternity leave, accompanied by new guarantees, a 60-day time limit and an obligation to state reasons. Other clarifications fulfil the requirements for drafting legislation and facilitate a clear interpretation of the provisions. The bill is designed to ensure uniform application of the law and compliance with the obligations of harmonisation, particularly with regard to the government's priority in both family policy and employment policy. On this basis, the summarised amendment proposed serves the original purpose of the bill. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for your constructive contributions during the general debate. I trust that we are about to adopt an important, forward-looking regulation for everyone, which will promote both the domestic objectives of employment policy and family policy. I therefore ask that the Honourable Parliament support the bill also in the final vote. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-06-106	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Wednesday's meeting. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws relating to higher education, vocational training and adult education and the discussion of the summarised amendment will now follow. The government referral is T/1623. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Imre Vejkey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-12-06-107	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 1 and 2 December 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed the amendment of the laws relating to certain higher education, vocational training and adult education T/1623. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 27 votes in favour, 6 votes against and no abstentions. Ladies and Gentlemen, The aim of the bill before us is to strengthen the autonomy of Hungarian higher education, to increase its competitiveness, to expand the self-determination of universities and to strengthen their international relations. The proposal includes the abolition of the language examination requirement for the diploma and the new rules on master's courses that can be created and launched by the higher education institutions. In the case of language examinations, higher education institutions can decide their own language skills from students and organise the necessary training and measurements. In order to facilitate mobility in higher education, the proposal also provides that diplomas obtained in higher education provide, under the provisions of the law, the same legal scope as national diplomas for the diplomas of the State joining the European Higher Education Area for further education. The proposal also includes provisions in support of the effectiveness of the professional activities and basic tasks of the National University of Public Service. Finally, the amendment to the draft concerning employment provides the legal basis for allowing the employment part of the separate public fund for employment programmes to finance specific tasks of the Adult Education Act. Ladies and Gentlemen, Let me now say a few words about the amendment adopted by the Legislative Committee. The amending proposal brings together rules on the employment of trainers and researchers in the light of constitutional aspects. In view of this, the proposal states that teachers and researchers employed in the budgetary body, as well as teachers and researchers employed in private and ecclesiastical higher education institutions, can be employed up to 70 years of age by establishing a different age of employment in the organisational and operational regulations, which should not be lower than the age of 70 years of employment. The addition to Nftv proposes that the detailed rules for the relevant job can be defined in the employment requirement system of the university. The amendment also defines the need to ensure the first professional qualifications and the freeness of the higher education institution in the ecclesiastical higher education institutions. As regards the Act on the Education Register, there will also be more clarification, additions to the bill for foundations; the proposal includes detailed rules, clarifications and additions to assets, public tasks. On this basis, I ask this House to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-12-06-108	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[Dr. Balázs Hankó Zoltán: Yes.]] I give you the floor. Before giving it up, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have a total period of 15 minutes for your speech in the debate and for the presentation of the possible closing phrase. Here you go. [[13.10]]
u2022-12-06-109	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The fundamental aim of the amendments before you has been to transform the past few years into a successful transformation of the Hungarian society, to provide training for self-respecting professionals and masters who can respond flexibly to the needs of the economy, to improve higher education for the competitive advantage of the Hungarian nation, its future and its innovation capacity, and its knowledge economy, to fine tune adult training to meet rapidly changing demands at work, to improve it based on the results of continuous consultations, to achieve Hungary's strategic goals, to strengthen its competitiveness, and to increase its economy in a sustainable way. As pointed out in the expoze, the amendment before us allows institutions that have valid accreditation and which already have initial and master's qualification to be able to automatically establish master's training in the field of education concerned, by significantly broadening the autonomy of higher education. Thus, the long process of up to one and a half to two years will become almost immediate following the decision of the university and its maintainer. That is to say, we are creating the possibility of rapid training solutions for labour market needs in our universities. In fact, the higher education institution can also initiate the establishment and launch of a Master's degree at the Education Office in one procedure. The bill also addresses the mandatory language examination issue, which is considered a hungaricum. As discussed in the detailed debate, language examination is of little importance in the labour market compared to language skills. Our goal is to provide students with the appropriate professional language skills during university training, i.e. to be able to process foreign language literature alive, to be able to perform and debate in a foreign language. It is therefore appropriate to define the acquisition and measurement of foreign language skills adapted to qualifications in the decision-making competence of higher education institutions analysing and examining labour market processes. When talking about foreign language knowledge of students, it is important to highlight the following. While, four years ago, 12,000 students, today 22,000 students, i.e. a third of the graduates, also make an elevated language degree, and, as we know, this is equivalent to the secondary language exam in the case of a defined result. It is also important to point out that according to the 2021 student survey of the graduate track tracking system, all students have English knowledge, and they have 84 percent, high foreign language knowledge, but German language knowledge is true for a quarter of the students. With regard to the language requirements of higher education, we have established the new rules, in consultation with the National Conference of Students' Local Governments and with the representatives of universities. It is also an important change that the recognition law provides the same legal scope as the Hungarian diplomas in the case of higher education degrees in the case of the diplomas of the State joining the European Higher Education Area for further education, thus supporting Hungarian universities in the competition for international students, in a broader sense, for the internationalization of our higher education. In this, we want to further strengthen the success of recent years, as the number of international students increased by 65 percent to 40 thousand compared to 2013, and our 2030 targets provide for a further significant expansion. The important novelty of the legislative package is that the amendment of the Employment and Adult Education Act creates the legal basis for establishing the Adult Education Fund within the employment fund, thereby strengthening the establishment of a system that can respond quickly to labour market changes. Dear Parliament, I would like to highlight an important element of the amendment tabled by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, which will result in further significant progress towards digitalisation of our higher education. By adopting an amendment that is important for both efficient higher education and data security, our law on national higher education defines the inclusion of the video content manager in the educational process, thus the searchability for keywords, the making of their own notes and a number of services that help students prepare. According to the law, serious digitalization development continues, so students will also be able to access the final certificate and credit certificates in digital form. It is an important element that several universities have access to credit recognition for each institution, which is also intended to support mutual recognition. The European Union supports the idea of more and more training for adults, so that they can acquire smaller training units related to their work, or so-called micro-certificates. This system is being introduced in higher education and in adult education, because it is the best way to respond to the current economic challenges. As a result of the consultation with higher education institutions and other interested partners, the amendment also clarifies the rules of master's training that can be established in the competence of the higher education institution. It is proposed that the higher education institution with current accreditation should have the right to establish and launch the new master's degree, as the accreditation in force is sufficient to ensure that the training can start at an adequate level. However, in this case, it is also mandatory to obtain the opinion of the Hungarian Higher Education and Accreditation Committee within three years. Such ex-post accreditation is not only possible for new Master's programmes, but also for the start-up of existing courses. Through the amendment, the Act on the Education Register will provide for the provision of statistical data collection in order to carry out the tasks of the HCSO, certain wallets related to the financing and support of statistical reporting and higher education institutions, thus expanding the services of the unique Hungarian degree track tracking system, thereby providing additional data for the new quality and performance funding of higher education. The amendment also clarifies the asset allocation of public-service trust foundations and universities they maintain. At the Széchenyi István University of Győr, in the service of automotive training and innovation as a public service, the maintenance foundation owns the assets that help this purpose. Dear House, The issue of our universities is a national matter, so it is of the utmost importance that these institutions be the locomotives of the nation, also with responsibility for the future generation. The expansion of resources needed for this is already remarkable in a European comparison. But more importantly, in increasing development and funding expenditure, a quality and performance incentive system will be published this year, 30 percent next year, 40 percent next year, 50 percent in the following year, both for students, for scientific research excellence and for strengthening innovation. After all, we have signed with our universities to reduce early school leaving, i.e. expand student mentoring programs. We have signed up for the student to receive his diploma during the planned training period, so the curricula are renewed. We have also signed up to start young people's lives in a post-order, skilled workplace. This increases the practical number and proportion of training courses. We have also recorded how talent management programmes should be expanded. We have provided additional resources to strengthen international mobility, as it is important that students also gain experience abroad and continue their studies at home with this experience. We support the development of university sports life with HUF 2.5 billion a year. Remember, in Tokyo, we had 13 university medalists, and we have 67 Olympics in our higher education institutions, and in 2024 we are organizing European university games. The adoption of the bill represents a further step in the work that has started several years ago, in which this House has repeatedly expressed its support to the Government. That is why I call on honourable Members to support the bill in the final vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-06-110	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Committee on Culture. The Members' contributions would be forthcoming, but given that I do not see a voice from their representatives, the debate is closed. I'd like to ask the author if you'd like to comment again. [[Dr. Balázs Hankó Zoltán: No.]] He does not wish to comment on the referral. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Wednesday's meeting. [[13.20]] We now have the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain land laws and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/1846. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Zoltán Bóna, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-12-06-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 24 November 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/1846 on the amendment of certain land laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 29 votes in favour, 4 votes against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, The proposal before us is an agricultural salad law. The amendment tabled by the Committee on Legislative Affairs mainly contains language suitability and codification clarifications. The purpose of the amendment to the Land Protection Act is to lay down a special rule on landscape elements in view of the strategic plan submitted, since they are eligible as from 2023, given that they are intended to improve water retention, biodiversity and microclimate. The amendment to the bill on forest, forest protection and forestry makes it clear that the application of the provisions can only be made in the case of forest areas of primary economic use. In this respect, the removal of forest areas from public property may only be carried out by replacement or replacement for the purpose of the establishment of an appropriate public holding structure for the purpose of the replacement or replacement of land with a forest in the same or higher natural state. The National Earth Fund bill prevents abuses, as it has been open for at least three years within the framework of the amendment to an animal-farming person for a maximum of 25 years in order to be able to lease a meadow and a protected area for grazing. His condition is that he has not committed any breach of contract in the three years preceding the designation. The purpose of the amendment to the proposal on the circulation of agricultural and forestry land is to ensure that the National Chamber of Agriculture has an appropriate database on the evolution of land prices from the data obtained in the course of the evaluation of sales contracts, and it is therefore appropriate to provide for the use of average prices drawn up on the basis of this database. The NAK has an appropriate database of land price developments from the data obtained in the course of the sales contracts. In order to prevent undivided joint ownership on the land, if the land is inherited jointly by several heirs, the heirs shall, in order not to create an undivided joint ownership on the property, conclude a class settlement, share the property by assigning each heir to a specific part of the property, to sell the property together or to offer it free of charge to the State. The amendment proposal encourages heirs to carry out legal transactions by paying inheritance fees even in the case of succession between direct branch relatives if they do not share the undivided common property within one year according to the forms listed. Ladies and gentlemen, Given what has been said, I believe that the bill should be supported, and I therefore propose that it be adopted. Thank you very much.
u2022-12-06-112	Thank you. I ask the author, he wishes to speak. [[For signal:]] At the end, he wishes. Thank you. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Committee on Agriculture. I give the floor to Imre Ritter, a German national representative, the rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, who will present the first sentences of his speech in the language of nationality, and then translate them into Hungarian. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-113	[[???Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parlament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich die Meinung des Ausschusses in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten, bezüglich des Gesetzesvorschlags mit dem Titel „Über die Änderung bestimmter Gesetze in Bezug auf Gelände” mit Nr. T/1846 erörtere.???]] Mr President, Dear House, Allow me to express once again the opinion of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities on the amendment of certain land laws, T/1846. About the bill No. 1. Our Commission has asked for this legislative package to be a minority agenda because it deals, among other things, with CXLV 2021 on the settlement of the situation of persons seeking compensation in the operational area of the former Rozmaring Agricultural Production Association. also by amending the law. I have already dealt with the circumstances and history of this bill in detail during the general debate. With regard to its implementation, I am pleased to reiterate that, on the basis of the law adopted on 14 December 2021, the first part of the compensation took place on the basis of the views of the stakeholders; we thank you very much for that. However, in July 2022, those still awaiting compensation were informed that only a third of the required land was available for compensation in the ground, which met the conditions laid down by law. According to my current knowledge, in the operational area of the former Rozmaring Agricultural Production Co-operative, it would provide a solution and land to be compensated in the ground: if, on the one hand, the National Land Management Centre checks and, if necessary, complements the statement of state land; secondly, the inclusion of suitable land in the ground area of other remote neighbouring settlements will be carried out by law; on the other hand, the inclusion of areas marked with protected but not protected natural resources will take place in the ground; last but not least, if obsolete mining rights are deleted. Well, from the four points listed above, on the one hand, Minister István Nagy has already promised to immediately order the abolition of obsolete mining rights in his closure after the general debate, so this problem is likely to be resolved. Secondly, it is also a step forward that T/1846, T/1846. Law No 69. According to Article 5 of the Act on the settlement of the situation of persons to be compensated in the operational area of the former Rozmaring Agricultural Production Co-operative CXLV 2021. Act No. 7 In point (b) of paragraph 4 of this Article, the words "protected" shall be replaced by the protected text entered in the management of assets. In other words, protected natural areas in asset management cannot be used to compensate for land use, in other words, but protected areas not included in asset management. On this basis, although I am not aware of the likelihood of an increase in the amount of land that can be used for compensation, as Deputy State Secretary Zita Kovács said at the meeting of the NEB on 15 November 2022 from the Agricultural Ministry. I quote:. I would like to confirm that the Ministry of Agriculture is committed to satisfying those entitled to compensation under the law referred to as the Rozmaring Act, and this amendment is also aimed at ensuring that the appropriate land base can be ensured. Thirdly, I think there is no reason why the National Earth Centre should specifically check and supplement its statement of state land in relation to this compensation law. To sum up, the combined effect of the three factors mentioned will surely increase the land base to satisfy the victims, but to the extent that it is sufficient, before the implementation of the measures listed, in the absence of detailed data, I cannot predict it in advance. [[13.30]] Therefore, on behalf of the victims, I would also like to ask the rapporteur, Minister of Agriculture, with respect to the fact that, if the ground for compensation would not be sufficient despite the measures, we should, in the spring, make another amendment, after due preparation, to include the areas of neighbouring districts such as Budakes, Szentendre and Dorog in the ground and thus to ensure a satisfactory, fair and permanent closure of the compensation. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-12-06-114	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I would now like to hear the speeches from the Members, but I do not see any requests for contributions from their representatives. The debate is now closed. I'll give the floor to the author. Secretary of State, please.
u2022-12-06-115	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for what the Committee on Legislative Affairs has said and for the proposals that complement and reinforce T/1846. The legislative proposal, referred to by the representative of the Committee on Legislative Law, which is, to a large extent, an amendment containing grammar or other minor additions which do not affect the substance of the law. At the same time, I would like to thank Imre Ritter separately for the work he has done, the commitment he has made to follow the claims of the former members of the Rosmaring Cooperative. My answer to the three issues raised by you will be truly effective or effective if we really learn how much these old owners need, and then we will try to do everything we can to ensure that the ownership of the Rozmaring Cooperatives, after more than 30 years, has a truly reassuring solution after nearly 30 years. In this, I ask you for further cooperation and reflection on behalf of the Ministry. Ladies and gentlemen, At the same time, I would like to thank you for the cooperation in the general debate in which my fellow Members have expressed their views, and have expressed their views in detail. Nevertheless, I would like to ask you, or on this point, to support the bill tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-12-06-116	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Wednesday's meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on the proposal for protection of the origin of agricultural products and the debate on the draft amending proposal. The government referral is T/1841. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Bóna, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-12-06-117	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 1 December 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/1841 on the protection of the origin of agricultural products. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 24 votes in favour, 3 votes against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The aim of the draft is to establish a single national regime exclusively for agricultural products and foodstuffs, wine products and spirit drinks, combined with geographical indications of agricultural products and traditional specialities guaranteed. The provisions on protection of geographical indications are currently set out in Annex XI of 1997 on the protection of trade marks and geographical indications, focusing on intellectual property rights and, in particular, industrial property rights aspects. by law. However, the achievement of the objectives of the agricultural policy cannot be fully ensured by the Trade Mark Act, as it does not allow for the strengthening of the role of producer groupings, organisations carrying out activities relating to geographical indications, the conditions and powers necessary for a higher quality Community management of geographical indications as a quality system. In addition, the Trade Mark Act is not suitable for the establishment of legal rules for traditional specialities guaranteed also operated as a quality system, since the names of registered traditional specialities guaranteed are not part of industrial property protection. On this basis, it was necessary to establish a separate law through which the agricultural, agricultural and rural development objectives related to geographical indications and traditional specialities guaranteed can be achieved together, focusing on the interests of producers and their groupings, providing a simpler, more transparent and more easily manageable legal background for Hungarian agri-product producers. The amendment tabled by the Committee on Legislative Affairs mainly contains linguistic and legal clarification, as well as consistency with other laws. The amendment states that temporary measures in criminal proceedings for infringement should be considered necessary on the basis of the provisions of civil procedure for reasons of particular appreciation. However, the amending proposal introduces a period of exclusion, which is 6 months since the start of the infringement and 60 days since the applicant was informed of the infringement and the person of the usurper. Dear Parliament, I ask for the support of the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-12-06-118	Thank you, Congressman. I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Committee on Agriculture. Interventions by Members now take place within the time frame set out in the item on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any representation. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'll give the floor to the author. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-12-06-119	I'm sorry, but very briefly, I would ask the Members of this Parliament to support the bill tomorrow. Thank you. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-12-06-120	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Wednesday's meeting. The Commission's reports on the procedure for the presentation of agricultural aid from the Common Agricultural Policy and from the national budget and the discussion of the summarised amendment are now in order. The government referral is T/1840. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as an EU agenda item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Bóna. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-12-06-121	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 24 November 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/1840 on the procedure for granting agricultural aid from the Common Agricultural Policy and the national budget. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 27 votes in favour, 5 votes against and 3 abstentions. The aim of the bill is to put the procedural rules on the use of EU and national agricultural subsidies on a new basis for a more modern, efficient and transparent decision-making. The amendment proposed by the Committee on Legislative Affairs contains mainly linguistic, legal and codification clarifications. The amendment states that, in addition to the client's legal representative and his primary representative, the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy may act in the agricultural aid procedure. Further parts of the proposal include detailed rules on the representation of agents in the Chamber. In this respect, the Minister responsible for agricultural policy may lay down detailed rules for the establishment, termination or definition of the mandate of the Chamber. In addition to the above, the amending proposal states that the Minister for Economic Development is authorised to lay down rules for the use and operation of the agri-Széchenyi Card programme in agreement with the Minister for Agriculture. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has already been said, I would like to ask you to support the bill, since the aim is to renew and strengthen rural Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2022-12-06-122	Thank you, Congressman. I ask the author, do you wish to comment now? [[For signal:]] No. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Committee on Agriculture. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. [[There's no candidate.]] Given that I do not see any contributions from Members, Honourable Parliament, the debate is closed. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment at the end. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-12-06-123	Very briefly, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill tomorrow. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] [[13.40]]
u2022-12-06-124	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Wednesday's meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on the amendment of individual laws in the context of bureaucracy and harmonisation and the debate on the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/1847. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Dávid Héyj, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-12-06-125	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 1 December 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/1847 on the amendment of certain laws in the context of bureaucracy and harmonisation. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 25 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 6 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The bill before us aims to amend laws on health data management, compulsory health insurance, social security financial funds, public procurement and certain land development. However, the legislative amendments included in the proposal are combined with the common aim of reducing bureaucratic burdens and promoting harmonisation, based on the practical experience of the past period, and of aligning laws with changing social, organisational and technical conditions. One of the priority tasks of the amendment on the House's table is to extend the availability period of the data required for scientific research. The bill therefore changes the retention period for the central event catalogue and health profile data from five years after the death of the data subject to 10 years. It is also important to mention the amendment to the law on compulsory health insurance, which essentially serves administrative burden reduction and digitalisation purposes. It is proposed to establish an IT register that is easily accessible to citizens, which will include relevant data on health insurance cash benefits for all insured persons from 1 July 2023, and citizens may provide that they intend to communicate with the Authority on paper or by electronic means using a public storage facility. Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up, the proposal before us contains forward-looking provisions to reduce both the administrative burden on citizens and the public administration, which is why its adoption must be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-12-06-126	Thank you, Congressman. I ask the author, he wishes to speak. [[Dr. Csaba Latorcai: End of debate.]] The author indicated that he would speak to her at the end. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Welfare Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. [[No signal.]] Given that I do not see any comments, the debate is closed and I will give the floor to the rapporteur. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-12-06-127	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, T/1847 on the amendment of individual laws in relation to bureaucracy and harmonisation The amendment of the laws contained in bill No.3 serves a common purpose: to reduce bureaucracy and promote legal harmonisation on the basis of the practical experience of the past period, and to bring the laws concerned into line with changing social, organisational and technical conditions, as the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, Dávid Héjjj just said. The bill before you cannot be regarded as extensive, but it sets out positive demands for amendment, which serve to improve the legal system. The bill amends the law on the management and protection of health and related personal data, which changes the retention period for the purpose of achieving health professional policy objectives and for the purposes of scientific research for the central event catalogue and health profile data from five years after the death of the data subject to ten years. The bill also amends the law on compulsory health insurance benefits, which simplifies paying-place accounts and ceases to provide statistical data. For employees of the insolvent social security paying agency, the State may pay sickness benefits, children's and other benefits. The bill allows for the creation of a single register, accessible to citizens, as well as a single, credible electronic administration instead of a paper, e-mail or Excel table, a faster reimbursement of expenses, as well as electronic administration in the submission of applications and communication between authorities and customers. The bill also includes an amendment to the Public Procurement Act, contributing to ensuring that EU law on public procurement is implemented in all respects in Hungary when EU funds are used. Among the other elements of the bill, which serve to harmonise EU law, I would point out that, in order to comply with the proportionality requirement and the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the rules of the Public Procurement Act on access to documents are added. A further amendment, in application of the principle of proportionality, will help to ensure that the tender is not invalid if the tenderer cannot otherwise be held liable for the conduct of a contributor. The adoption of the bill is also an opportunity to remedy the EU's comments on the subject in the course of the infringement proceedings against Hungary with a view to closing the infringement procedure as soon as possible. Dear Parliament, As I have said, the bill seeks to incorporate the needs in practice into the legal provisions. The proposed amendments contain the necessary rules for the application of the latest EU case law in Hungary, thus ensuring the domestic enforcement of EU law on public procurement in all respects when using EU funds. The provisions of the bill serve a good purpose. Our laws are adapted to changing economic and social conditions at the same time as ensuring consistency with EU law, and, above all, they facilitate people's everyday life and reduce the burden on businesses. I trust that the amendments proposed for the benefit of the Hungarian people and businesses have, on the basis of what has been said, earned that all honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, with a very strong vote, will support the achievement of the objectives of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-12-06-128	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Wednesday's meeting. We now have the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain health legislation and the discussion of the summary amendment proposal. The Government's referral is T/2031. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Andras Aradski, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-12-06-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 1 December 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/2031 amendment of certain health laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 22 votes in favour, 17 votes against and 3 abstentions. Dear House, We have a package of laws that will make the Hungarian healthcare system more modern and efficient. The measures contained in the proposal are essential for the renewal of the healthcare system. I think it is important to mention that during the preparation of the bill and when it was drawn up, several professional discussions took place, so, overall, we can say and say that professional organisations also had an impact on the professional content of the bill. Among other things, the Hungarian Medical Chamber was involved in this work, and the ideas were included in the proposal before us within the framework of the legislative system. [[13.50]] The proposal contains amendments in different supply areas, and is mainly about defining practice areas in the area of basic health care and increasing public engagement. Accordingly, the right to designate the boundaries of the GP would be transferred from the municipalities to a public background institution dealing with the organisation of care, the National Hospital Directorate-General. A national practice manager would be set up within the board of directors for this basic supply, which would now be responsible for the designation of district boundaries after the entry into force of the law. However, it is an important element of the bill that there is also a need to ensure a stronger state involvement in the on-call system. The proposal will extend the scope of the rescue service by providing an on-call period from 10 a.m. to 8 a.m. in the evening. Phone calls will not be made to the on-call service during this period, but to the National Ambulance Service, where they receive calls according to a pre-arranged system based on international experience, and will also manage patients at this level of care. It is also important to mention that the proposal also proposes the adoption of health care beds by the social sector. The amendment also includes the special rules for this transfer and transfer, but, of course, in such a way that the interests of the workers there are not harmed and, of course, the interests of the patients provided there are also respected, and even in better, more pleasant, additional services conditions. The rules on the certification of health workers are also included in the bill before us. The assessment of workers is important because in both healthcare and other public services, an important element in the world of work is to learn about actual performance on the basis of feedback from objective assessments. Feedback can lead to improvements in quality of life and quality of care, as has been the case in systems that have already been implemented under similar systems before us. This will certainly also have a positive impact in the field of health. According to my knowledge, and according to professional feedback, we have sufficient openness for this kind of measurement, for this kind of feedback, for this kind of evaluation in the healthcare sector themselves, and they also look forward to such testing and feedback. The bill also provides for persons assisting in the provision of inpatient care. The presence of the helper generally contributes to the patient's comfort and, of course, to the most important part, to the provision of spiritual support, because creating or achieving a mental balance in the patient's crisis or in the care of the patient means a lot, it also helps specialist care and healing itself. To this end, the bill allows the presence of the adult person of the patient's choice in patient care. This natural person, this chosen person, will not perform health care activities, will only serve the patient's well-being with his presence, support him and help him with everyday affairs, assist the patient, and provide assistance to the recipient on issues not included in the duties of the medical staff. One of the most important amendments adopted at the Committee on Legislative Affairs will serve the purpose of adapting on-call care with a view to gradualness. To this end, the proposal clearly states that the final date for the conversion will be 29 February 2024. This will provide a sufficient period of time for him to be better prepared and smoother in the depth of the on-call care, as well as in his professionalism, and to be under the responsibility of the National Rescue Service. The Minister for Health will publish 30 days in advance for which emergency services will take over on-call care. Graduality and predictability will also be facilitated and this information will appear on the government website and the minister will also notify the municipalities concerned directly. (Attila Gelencsér in the notary seat) Replaced by Dr. István Tiba.) Another important amendment is that Act C of 2020 on the Medical Service Service Service Act 4. Paragraph 2 of Section 2 shall be replaced by the following provisions. Paragraph (2):. The person who is in the service of health services may carry out health care activities at the place of establishment or premises of the healthcare provider who employs him only with the prior authorisation of the body designated by the government, which is not covered by his or her medical service relationship. This was necessary because, under the current legislation, persons in a health care service cannot carry out health care activities in the territory of a healthcare provider who employs them that are not covered by their medical service. The purpose of the previous regulation was to eliminate the grey zone conditions where private and public health could be mixed or mixed in an unregulated form. However, since the adoption of the law, the need to amend the provision has been raised in order to guarantee the smooth treatment of patients. Thanks to this amendment, hopefully the person in service will be able to carry out health care activities at the premises of the healthcare provider that employs him, which is not covered by his health care relationship. I believe that the bill I have presented and the proposals for amendment, which the Committee on Legislative Affairs has adopted at the meeting, will be an important contribution to the development of health care, so I call on this House to support the bill that has been tabled and to adopt it with its votes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-06-130	Thank you, Congressman. I ask the author, he wishes to speak.
u2022-12-06-131	At the end.
u2022-12-06-132	He wishes to speak at the end. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Zoltán Komáromi, who presents the minority opinion of the designated Welfare Committee in a three-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-12-06-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Last Tuesday, the People's Welfare Committee held a debate on the health salad law. The Ministry and the State Secretariat have been saying for two months that they have been continuously consulted with the relevant professional organisations on the package, but it was also found at the plenary debate and the committee meeting that these discussions were more of a category of information. (The President's seat is Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Parliament.) At the meeting, the Secretary of State, Péter Takács, representing the government, passed through point by point the opposition amendments, some of which were submitted by the Democratic Coalition on the proposal of the Hungarian Medical Chamber. [[14.00]] However, despite the proposal by MESZK and MOK on the issue of travel contributions and conditions for health professionals who have been taken over to the staff of the county hospital under the bill, the Secretary of State concluded that these issues were fully regulated by the Labour Code and therefore did not support this. Our amendment tabled in parallel with my fellow Member, Máté Kanász-Nagy, covered the time limit for conductability. The Secretary of State refused to do so by saying that, although he considered it to be supported in substance, it will be presented to the TAB as a government amendment in a different format for formal reasons. I note that this promise was not fulfilled, but this item was not found among the amendments accepted by the TAB. As regards the right to appoint a doctor wishing to acquire the right of practice, State Secretary said that he agreed with the proposal submitted by the Medical Chamber, but since the government has not yet established the Praxis Fund Manager, the portfolio does not consider this technically feasible and therefore did not support this amendment in this form. However, he promised to treat the order of the disposal of the right of practice in Annex 2 to the TAB modification as a pro-government amendment in the order proposed by the Medical Chamber. This promise has been fulfilled, but in the text of the TAB there is an expression that the local government affected by the right of practice is a bit of a gown in relation to personal rights, but it was accepted in this way. The following proposal, which clarifies the need for the competent municipality to conclude a contract with a doctor wishing to pursue the right of practice, did not receive the support of the Secretary of State. In this case, the justification was weird that, although the right to designate the districts has been avoided from the municipalities, according to the Secretary of State, a municipal decision is maintained and not intended to be changed as a result of the current legislative framework and the autonomy of the local government. The solution creates uncertainty in the practice market, because at present it is not clear how long a doctor can acquire the right to practice. The solution would remove uncertainties in the practice market and perhaps help to solve the problem currently posed by the 680 unfilled districts. Thank you. [[Applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2022-12-06-134	Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. Mr Zoltán Varga, on behalf of the Democratic Coalition, submitted a preliminary application in writing. Before I give the floor, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that your group has ten minutes in total, and in addition to your speech, there are two candidates from your group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-12-06-135	Thank you very much, Madam President. We're sad to hear that, but we'll take it in the absence of a better one. Actually, we could talk about a lot of things. Mr. Secretary of State knows we've talked about a lot of things, because we've had 18 hours. However, I think that there are certain things that must be confirmed, because, yes, we think that, in fact, there may be valid perceptions that leave the care system to those in need instead of hospitals. Sándor Pintér's ability to do all of this is interesting in itself, because it is shocking that there is a minister who knows everything or everything from health care to education, and unfortunately, it seems that most of the government roles are concentrated in one hand, so that we know very well that if someone throws away a half-brick anywhere in the country, it is almost certain that he is pushing a secretary of state on snow, but it is likely that the victim may be a minister in this case. But let's not talk about that right now, because it's another crazy story, and I have very little time. The fact that the minister of law enforcement is responsible for the most sensitive human areas can also be seen by the sensitivity and solidarity of the management of the subsystems, as instead of sensitivity and solidarity, some crazy military, ankle-snapping, captoring world is imagined by our Minister of Interior, where, if you don't salute or ankle properly, well, you're going down. It's a nice new world for the Orbán system; well, I can only congratulate you. Based on the recently passed package of laws, patients would be sent from hospital care departments, by their common names, to so-called nursing centers. Like I said before, that would be acceptable. There are many words, perhaps not a word, in the amendment of the law, but for this care, you will certainly have to pay a heavy price; how much, however, you will be discreetly silent about it, Mr. Secretary of State. In fact, for the time being, you don't even really know where these centers are going to be. However, in order to be able to provide 5 to 6,000 patients professionally and in accordance with their needs for care each year, it would have to be ready now, or at least it would have been necessary to start developing social homes and settle the wages of those working in the social sphere, and indeed we can do this very well and multiply them. However, we can see nothing of these criteria, and we can't perceive them, even though within days the new system without any preparation will be launched in real time. We do not see so much that, let alone the improvements that have not been made, but most of the social institutions, Mr Secretary of State, may now be surprising, because of the brutal inflation in Orbán and the runaway overhead, there are at least 30,000 people missing from the current care, and these institutions are fighting for their lives right now. And it's a long shot, knowing the practice of the Orbán course, that what they have access to is either stolen or spoiled, so that relatively capital-powered patients who are out of the system will not receive proper care; and who doesn't have money will probably die somewhere on the bank of the ditch. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2022-12-06-136	This is Congresswoman Éva Sebők of the Momentum faction. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2022-12-06-137	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, There are a lot of things that need to be touched in the field of health care. But what is it that is expected of us, what is needed? A health reform would be needed, which would eliminate or at least reduce maternity violence; which would eliminate the need for infertility tourism to Bratislava and Vienna; which would ensure that all Hungarians, if their lives were to end, would be in dignity, so that they would provide adequate palliative and hospice care for all Hungarians; where waiting lists would be shortened; where the lives of doctors and health workers would be sustainable and work-life balance; where being a good health worker would be a good health worker. We need health care and we need to move in the direction where diseases are complexly treated, where prevention is a priority. The reform you brought in doesn't provide any of these. On the other hand, what it provides is that the state will become an even worse employer for healthcare workers; and it will ensure that the situation of Hungarian people who are in the most difficult situation will be even worse when they are chronically ill or in need of end-of-life care at the end of their lives; that their relatives will have more and more physical burdens in addition to the emotional burden. In any case, I would like to congratulate the Secretary of State, because it seems that you are not going to fail at the latter, but another fellow State Secretary, because someone is going to fall for it politically, that is for sure. The law you have imported did not provide anything to solve these problems; it will not provide any more resources in health care, nor more doctors or health professionals. [[14.10]] It still does not ensure that substantive succession plans can be drawn up in health care; it still does not ensure that a hospital director has to know how many workers he can count on; it still does not ensure that patients' rights can prevail. As a result, the Momentum faction cannot support the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2022-12-06-138	The next speaker is Gy. Congresswoman Erzsébet Németh, from the DK faction. I give you the floor, please.
u2022-12-06-139	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. For the time being, before I begin on the specific subject, it is very surprising to me that Zoltán Komáromi, the representative who gave the minority opinion of the Committee on Welfare, has three minutes in total. As I recall, there is a different provision in the house rules, and I am sorry, a respected fidesz majority, it is amazing that in the debate of such an important law there is no way to react to the opposition even in two minutes. [[Dr. Répássy, Robert: Second reading debate.]] And I wanted to ask Mr Secretary of State for that, but, well, I heard that he wanted to comment only at the end of the debate, that it was not really a debate, but when people say their opinions unilaterally, and then, when they no longer have a chance to respond to the State Secretary's response, then it's over. I would like to talk quickly about four things, because I would like to leave it to Mr Komáromi, since the Fidesz majority has so narrowly measured the time for this important law here. My first statement is that in a very long plenary debate, in a very long debate on the Committee on Welfare, and in the debate on the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the opposition has said its very serious reservations, and we have not received any guarantee of these concerns that the state, the government, would want to resolve this in some form. Mr Secretary of State has repeatedly said that the great solver, the big solution amendment, will be brought before the Committee on Legislative Affairs; this has not been successful. I don't think it's possible to go silently with the fact that in the hierarchy of social responsibility, he's the last person in the state. Mr. Secretary of State was not here. At my speech before the agenda this morning, Mr. Secretary of State Rétvári replied that the state would give everything to everyone, and that it would be good for everyone. I think that when we pay taxes, what the state collects, it is the state that should be the first to benefit from social benefits, because that is why citizens pay taxes. As a majority rapporteur, Mr Aradski said that the proposals of MOK were included in this TAB modification. Then it turned out they didn't get in. If you think they're all in, I ask you, why is the MOK in an internal survey assessing the willingness of doctors to protest? If everything was so perfect here, everything would be great, and they could have made a deal with MOK, then obviously that wouldn't be necessary. And by the end, Mr. Secretary, I have to say a few sentences about this. I do not think that he has given a reassuring answer, either, because there is no proposal to amend this, either, to present to this House the law on what will happen to the specialists. I understand that I've listened to you three times in the case of specialized clinics, and I'm going to do it for the fourth time, and they want to assess the situation of the specialist clinics. Mr. Secretary. Even the Fidesz MEPs voted in favour of the meeting of the Metropolitan Assembly in order not to take away from the municipalities that are good owners of these specialist clinics, these specialist clinics. Let me give you a personal example at the end, because I didn't get to say it three times in our meeting. CHAPTER XVII district is one of the districts where Bajcsy Hospital has always belonged to the specialist clinic. Do you know which one is the crappiest, most demoralized specialist in Budapest today? CHAPTER XVII District practice. I think they're in a much better place than the municipalities. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2022-12-06-140	Before I give the floor to our next speaker, I would like to respond to the Member's comment on the timeframes. The House Rule provides for a time frame for individual Commission rapporteurs in these debates. The rapporteur appointed by the Legislative Committee shall speak first in the House Rule 47. In accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article. The TAB has a total of 15 minutes to present the majority opinion in eight minutes, seven minutes to present the minority opinion. Congressman Komárom gave the minority opinion of the Committee on Welfare as a designated committee, and this is also provided for in the House Rules on how much time frame is available at that time. The committee shall have a total of six minutes, in such a way that it has three or three minutes to present both the majority opinion and the minority opinion; this is the case for each submission. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: Thank you, I understand.]] The two-minute speech cannot be interpreted genreally in the context of a time-frame debate. There is, of course, no barrier for speakers to respond to each other. [[Applause in the benches of Fidesz.]] After that, I will give the floor to István Szabadi, representative of our country. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-141	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, We thanked the Ministry of the Interior on 22 November for the professional consultation and the possibility of discussing the details of this amendment. On the basis of what was said at the meeting, we have formulated the comments, suggestions and questions of our party in 11 points, which we have sent in writing, to which we have not yet received an answer, but I therefore thought that I would now, in this opportunity, say these comments in 11 points. In our view, responsible decisions on the renewal of the healthcare system can be taken in the light of the government's long-term health concept, the results of impact assessments and the detailed rules. We don't know the rules yet. Compared to this, the bill lacks key issues, such as financing, the relationship between public and private care. We therefore asked for information on why the entire reform package was not submitted to the Parliament at the same time, and the missing background materials will be available. Furthermore, we believe that the first and most important step in health reform is to put the funding in order. By decision of the Government of 1798/2019 on certain health issues, the Government ordered the restructuring of the health financing and care system to be carried out on 23 December 19 with the aim of building the financing on real costs, preventing debt regenerating. I asked for information at that time, in my consultation and in my speech as the lead speaker, and now why the above government decision was not implemented and why it was repealed on 2 November. I'd be happy to finally get an answer to that. In our view, without addressing the relationship between public and private care, health problems cannot be solved, and it should therefore be possible to have regulated access between the public and private sectors. We asked for information that the Government Decree of 528-2020 implementing Act C of 2020 on the medical service relationship 7. In contrast to the provisions of paragraph 7 of Section 7 of this Article, the specific decree on this matter has not been drawn up; because this is not yet established. We do not agree that the flexibility of healthcare staff in the context of personal contributions is planned to be provided by secondment under the bill, thus forcing doctors and nurses to go to work for three hours a day. So, to this end, we also asked for information: what compensation are they planning to provide to compensate for the extra time and additional costs of going to work? How do you plan to prevent the emigration of employees, which may be the case in this case? We do not agree with the nationalization of professional clinics, even if Dr. Péter Takács, on the basis of his promise to the Hungarian Medical Chamber, the clinics will remain government-owned, the state will assume its maintenance role. Our opinion is also confirmed by the fact that hospitals were taken over from municipalities in 2012 by reference to the consolidation of debt, but the re-production of debt has not been prevented since then. And that's nearly 60 billion by the end of this year again. So we asked for information on how they would prevent outpatient care elderly doctors and nurses from ending up in clinics in county hospitals, so they would leave health care and reduce the possibility of access to outpatient clinics on the spot. The women in charge are assigned to the practice of home-school pediatricians, so we believe that if they are employed in urban hospitals, it will lead to an opaque operation. [[14.20]] We have also asked how this contradiction is planned to be resolved. In their opinion, if the paramedics have to take care of the emergency room, there is a fear that they may not be able to exit emergency situations in time because of their stress. We asked for information on the plans to expand the human resources and equipment park of the rescue service in view of the restructuring of the on-call system. It is also objectionable that mandatory GP duty was not fixed by accident until 10 p.m., because it is not considered as night work from a labour law point of view, so GPs who are pregnant or who are under three years of age are not entitled to be exempted from this. So we also asked for information here that elderly, pregnant or under three-year-old gynecologists were excluded from the mandatory duty until ten o'clock in the evening. In our view, the appointment of the National Hospital Directorate-General for the definition of primary care areas and the management of practice rights will result in excessive centralisation, given that the districts will be decided by a person who does not know the area or the right of the doctor who intends to dispose of the right of practice. My time is up, so thank you very much.
u2022-12-06-142	The next speaker is Zoltán Komáromi, from the Democratic Coalition faction, for the remaining timeframe. You have the floor, please.
u2022-12-06-143	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Two other amendments submitted by the Medical Chamber, which did not appear in the final material of the TAB. They suggested that the role, competence and order of on-call care of the public ambulance service in medical care be regulated by a separate legislation, since the model experiment in Hajdú-Bihar County on the basis of the proposed change has not yet provided credible evidence. It was perhaps the most controversial point in the bill that would allow the salary of professionals employed in any healthcare service in the workplace to be reduced by 20 percent on the basis of individual performance measurement not yet clarified and agreed. In agreement with the Medical Chamber, we claim that although evaluation of the performance of healthcare workers is a task to be solved, this can only be achieved after substantial preparation, after consultation and embedded in the institutional quality assurance system, thus improving the quality and safety of care. To solve this complex task, the time provided in this draft law is not enough, but the assessment of performance should be used to increase motivation. We are of the opinion that this should not lead to a reduction in the basic wage, and the Medical Chamber has also stated this. There's a source for that now. The bill lacked the request of the MESZK to include the special labour rules of the workers. We have not seen this, and, of course, we have been talking for months and years about the fact that the lack of human resources is caused by the low pay of the workers, and we have not seen any promise of this, and we are at risk of providing care near the place of residence if the local government-owned, well-functioning clinics are taken up by a county hospital with work and infrastructure. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-12-06-144	Thank you very much. I would like to ask my fellow Members that, in the remaining timeframe, someone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I'll ask the author if you'd like to answer. Mr Secretary of State indicates that he wishes to respond to what has been said. I give the floor to Secretary Péter Takács. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-145	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear House, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, Overall, I believe that, as summarised by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, there is a proposal on the table that serves modern and more effective patient care. This proposal has two main points, two important aspects: patient safety and patient interests. We have consulted many advocacy organisations, the honourable Members and gentlemen refer to many of these, and they have done less to the patient's interests. Several people have questioned the proposals of the Medical Chamber, and I would like to say that we have consulted the Medical Chamber several times during the preparatory work. President Gyula Kincses also confirmed this in the detailed debate on the Committee on Welfare. In fact, he gave himself an example, which was already incorporated into the material during the preparatory work, such as the organisational issues of basic care or the sections on the expansion of GP competences. With regard to the amendments, the situation is as follows. They're asking me to make promises I didn't make. During the detailed debate, I also said that we can fully and partially support one of the Chamber of Medicine's proposals. We believe that two proposals will be dealt with in accordance with other legislation, including the Labour Code, and that we cannot support the two proposals of the Medical Chamber. One was the proposal for a practice alienation, where, in the way the Chamber would have proposed, the municipalities would have been completely excluded from the right to consider with their general practitioner, whose contract expired, to continue working together. I will send the ideas for certification to the Medical Chamber this week, as promised, and I will confirm this in my conversation with President Gyula Kincses. I would like to thank Mr Komáromi very much for listing the previous proposals, and I would like to use a clarification: here we were able to accept the order of practical alienation, not the time limit for the travel of workers. And I also said that there was a guarantee in the law, so that there was no abuse of employers' rights. I said this several times between the general and detailed debate, which is an upper limit, which protects the worker. So the general rule would be that no one outside the county line can be moved. By the way, I also said in about 20 hours of the general and detailed debate that, even during the greatest Covid wave, there was no more far-reaching conduct than the Dunaújváros-Budapest approach, and it lasted only two weeks. So the scares that we're going to conduct everyone here from Szombathely to Nyíregyháza are not true in this form. It's a matter of social beds. We have repeatedly said that, contrary to what the opposition has said, these changes do not affect 27 and 28,000 beds; in total, in the first round, we see that it could cover up to 2800 beds. It's less than half of the spa beds. Those beds can be placed in a social care system that is Cubanly detached from hospitals. Hospitals will continue to perform the task where there is no possibility of this Cuban separation. I would also like to say for information that social care, long-term care, where the patient does not require 24-hour medical supervision, apart from the German language area, is not the responsibility of the healthcare system in Europe. It is also true here, Congressman Varga, that we in the Ministry of Interior like to try it for the first time, that what we have invented will work in practice, and, as I have said in the general debate, I am now confirming that for the first time in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county we will examine whether this model is operational in a pilot programme. The law creates opportunities for this, so the law creates opportunities. I am very pleased that Mrs Éva Sebők sees things in the same way as the government, she may not agree with us in the way they are implemented, but, in any case, what she has listed, these are the objectives of the bill before us. There's a lot to touch, and we agree on that, and we'll do it. I believe that the strengthening of health care can and will only be done through systematic work and hard work. [[14.30]] Basically, I would say that we are being called upon to deal with non-legislative regulations that must be settled in government decrees and other laws. In the debate of a law, I find this strange, and the adoption of the law later creates the introduction of these regulators. Lot. Erzsébet Németh asks for another three minutes after 20 hours of debate, and I find this strange. And you're asking me to do something I didn't promise. I also said that in the detailed debate, and you were wrong about that. So I didn't promise to use a pro-government changer to say that there would be no possibility of a state reservation. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh intervenes.]] For eight and a half hours, while I was sitting here, I was asked to report that at the last minute, we would bring in a pro-government TAB modifier that would transfer the specialized clinics to government property from January 1st. I promised it wouldn't happen, and it didn't happen. We didn't bring in any of these TAB modifications. I'll say it again, not four times, but at least eight times in the debates: there is no government decision yet. [[Zoltán Varga: There will be! Lot. Erzsébet Németh: We will, we won't worry about it!]] Whether or not the specialized clinics will be owned by the State. The first step is a survey, which is now being made possible by the law before us. Mr Szabadi again asked the questions that I had already answered in part in the Ministry of the Interior. I wouldn't go through all that right now. However, I would like to highlight two things: one: the Government decision you mentioned and repealed was repealed because the Government referral on the renewal of funding was completed and started this week in the framework of the administrative consultation. So it will soon be available to the wider audience and the profession. And the other thing that comes back over and over again in the emergency room is fear for the capacity of an ambulance. It has been clearly demonstrated that if there is a good telephone triage that allows the patient to be directed to a level of care that is appropriate to the patient's condition, the emergency capacity for emergency situations and life-threatening situations will not only decrease but increase. So with the capacity for real emergency situations, OMSZ can manage better. These amendments form a system, which now has the leg of law before the Parliament, as appropriate, which will be followed by the level of government decree and ministerial decree. Our ultimate goal is to create a more effective health care system along patient safety and patient interests, to strengthen our strengths, and to catch up on areas, including prevention, which have still to be strengthened in recent years. Thank you for listening. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill tomorrow. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-06-146	Dear Parliament, The decision shall take place on Wednesday's meeting. The Commission's reports on the organisation and functioning of the State Audit Office and on the amendment of certain laws relating to the rights of nationalities and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. Proposal submitted by the Economic Committee T/2014. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héyj, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-147	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 1 December 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/2014 amending certain laws relating to the organisation and functioning of the State Audit Office and the rights of nationalities. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 25 votes in favour, 3 votes against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, The bill on the House's table is based on three main themes and contains a number of other amendments that can help to carry out audits more effectively and well-foundedly, thereby increasing the credibility of the Court's work and strengthening its social acceptance. One of the main issues and perhaps the most important: a complete revision of the wage system at the State Audit Office, as it is important to switch to a completely clean wage management, when the indexation, which is a guarantee of independence of the State Audit Office, concerns the wage mass and not the specific salary of individual auditors. It is also necessary to add that this does not entail any additional expenditure for the budget, so that the budget will spend exactly as much on the wages of the auditors as it has done before, but it will allow for the establishment of a system of wage incentives for performance and differentiation based on performances within the State Audit Office. Another important element of the bill is the strengthening of the advisory and supportive role and cooperation. It should be stressed that the role of the State Audit Office has been highlighted in preparing public finance entities to tackle the challenges effectively, thereby strengthening the resilience of the public financial system. To this end, the amendment aims to place greater emphasis on the advisory and supportive function of the State Audit Office. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment also considers the implementation of wider cooperation with the audited organisations as an essential aspect. The starting point of the proposal is that if the audited organisations are able to consider the State Audit Office as a supporting partner, which, in addition to the audit, is also a priority for advice based on professional funds, there may be a greater willingness to contribute and to make use of the proposals of the State Audit Office. Given what has been said, I think that the bill before us should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you for the floor, Madam President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-06-148	I would like to ask the author that he wishes to speak at this stage. [[Erik Bánki: No.]] Commission President Erik Bánki indicates that he does not wish. You'll have 15 minutes to say the closing word. I'm going to ask if Secretary of State Répássy is speaking on behalf of the government. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Yes.]] It says yes. I give the floor to the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-149	Thank you, Madam President. All I would like to say to the Parliament for information is that both the amendments of the Legislative Committee and the bill are supported by the Government. I'm asking for your approval tomorrow. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-06-150	I would like to inform my fellow Members that the designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur. I now give the floor to Mr Imre Ritter, a German national representative, the rapporteur of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, who will present the first sentences of his speech in the language of nationality, and then translate them into Hungarian. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-12-06-151	[[???Sehr geehrter Frau Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parlament! Erlauben Sie mir bitte, dass ich im Namen und im Auftrag des Ausschusses der in Ungarn lebenden Nationalitäten unseren Standpunkt bezüglich die Abänderung des Gesetzes über die Änderung bestimmter Gesetze in Bezug auf die Organisation und Arbeitsweise des Staatlichen Rechnungshofs und auf die Rechte der Nationalitäten mit Nr. T/2014, erörtere.???]] Madam President, Dear House, Allow me to express our position on behalf of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities on T/2014. on the draft law amending certain laws relating to the organisation and functioning of the State Audit Office and the rights of nationalities. T/2014. Rule 24 of the bill. § 3 of the Act amends the 2011 CLXXIX on the Rights of Nationalities. Act No, by returning to Njtv the definition in force until 25 July 2022 with effect from the day following the publication of the Act (paragraph 1), according to which "nationality organisation" means an association in the court register of civil society organisations other than the Party and the trade union, the purpose of which, as laid down in its statutes, at least three years before the year of the minority self-government election, is to represent the specific nationality designated under this Act. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, On the other hand, the bill provides for a new transitional period for national minority organisations to register as a minority association, so that they can appoint candidates in national and local government elections as nominating organisations. [[14.40]] The bill currently under trial and the previous T/367 submitted in June 2022. In general and in-depth discussions on this proposal, we have already explained the serious professional reservations of nationalities in Hungary and the unacceptable nature of the procedure that neither this bill, which was tabled in June 2022 nor in November 2022, was previously discussed with either the Association of National Government or the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary, although it is a matter of nationality which affects the system of national governments in principle. We are sure that the national did not examine the criteria and methods in which the regionally competent tribunals register the classification of the national minority association, or how many associations are currently classified in this category, when, under which rules they were classified. In the context of transitional regulation, I would also like to point out further substantive circumstances which would be detrimental to legal certainty. Formerly XXXVI of 2013 on the electoral procedure Act 307/D, in force until 25 July 2022. § 2 second sentence of paragraph 2 states that the electoral committee competent to register a minority nominating organisation must check the statutes of the minority organisation in the court register of civil society organisations and the fulfilment of the condition that Njtv's objective, fixed in the association's statutes at least three years before the year of the minority self-government election, is the Njtv. the representation of a specific nationality as defined in point (a) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. Due to the fact that the Ve. 307/D. Paragraph 2 second sentence of the Parliament 2026. [[Sic!]] 2nd sentence of paragraph 2026 of the Parliament 2026. (sic! The election committee responsible for registering the nationality nominating organisation has been repealed by Ve with effect from 26 July 2006. 307/D is currently in force. Paragraph 3 does not require an examination of the statutes and the objectives set out therein. In the absence of this, there may be a risk that the election of representatives of national self-governments may also be attended and nominated by organisations which do not comply with Njtv. 2. The conditions set out in paragraph 14. To sum up: given that the safety of national minority nominating organisations is a fundamental issue in the choice of local and national minority self-governments, in the whole election, compared to the failed legislative amendment in June 2022, the present proposal partially restores the previous situation, which is a step forward, and we therefore support the adoption of this amendment. At the same time, we do not consider this issue to be closed and resolved reassuringly. After a meaningful and comprehensive consultation, it can be safely stated that further legislative amendments and clarifications will be needed next spring, and I would also like to ask for the cooperation of all the helpers involved. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[Applause.]]
u2022-12-06-152	Dear Parliament, It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congressman István Szabadi, of the Group of Our Country. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-153	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, Dear House, As I pointed out in my previous speech as the lead speaker, the Hungarian Movement, as a constructive opposition party, assessed the bill only on the basis of control professional criteria. We have received several notifications from the current and former SAO workers to our anonymous interface, and on this basis we have been informed that, for example, in the case of measures previously arbitraryly imposed by the former SAO President, the amendment of the SAO Act in 2019 has given the employer the possibility to amend the appointments of auditors unilaterally, so we agree that according to the current bill, the auditor's public service contract, including the classification of the auditor and the level of basic salary, can only be modified by mutual agreement between the SAO and the SAO. The current president, Dr. László Windisch, brought the idea of wage mass management from his former workplace, the Hungarian National Bank, where he has been working well for years and serves to keep the highly skilled workforce, because wage mass management makes it possible for the SAO, acting as a budgetary body, not to have to repay the personal benefit savings on vacant status to the central budget, which he would otherwise be obliged to do according to the rules of budgetary management. However, following this amendment, the total wage may be used for the development of salaries, and the annual increase in the special allocation of personal allowances is legally guaranteed, which does not occur with any other budgetary body. As there is currently a ban on non-wage benefits in the public sector and there is no possibility of wage increases, the Fiscal Council recommended that it be appropriate to introduce wage management in budgetary bodies in order to better estimate workers. It's obviously a positive turn of events. We also consider it important that instead of the previous superficial SAO audits, they want to focus on the depth checks, because the audit of public funds is actually being carried out, as I mentioned the last time that only four of the SAOs had previously checked the eight thousand state investments, and we also see the need for this, because according to the anonymous announcements, László Domokos gradually removed all the auditors who fought for their professionalism and fought for professionalism, i.e. the new president inherited a diluted staff of experts. In order to carry out a deeper audit of public finance management, we are fundamentally in agreement with the performance-based definition of audit salaries, provided that it is based on a truly performance-oriented, objective benchmarking. Based on anonymous announcements, a better performer earns the same amount as his less well-performing colleague. This is also important because while the auditors are looking for multiples of the national average, teachers' salaries do not reach the national average. We are convinced that performance-based pay would improve the so far negative social perception of the auditors. Our Hungary Movement considers transparency and objectivity important at all state-spent forints, so it is also important to determine the pay of the accountant. This amendment contains professionally the opportunities and aspirations that can improve real and effective controls that can provide a reassuring way of identifying the cost of the correct use of public funds, and therefore we expect this amendment to make public money spending bodies and institutions truly more transparent and provide correct information after spending each forint. Thank you very much.
u2022-12-06-154	Member Zsolt Nyitrai of the Fidesz Group has applied for comments. I give you the floor, please.
u2022-12-06-155	Madam President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the word and opportunity. The SAO, the State Audit Office, is a large organisation, a serious organisation, an independent organisation, dealing with very important areas, checking and examining important areas, and therefore the rules on its operation need to be amended at times. Obviously, in the case of the bill before us, the main objective is to carry out checks even more efficiently, even deeper, even more thoroughly, and this amendment affects conflict of interest rules, strengthens budgetary guarantees and extends control powers, thereby increasing the scope of the SAO, the State Audit Office. [[14.50]] A positive decision will be taken to reform internal wage management, the so-called wage-mass management. I am very pleased that the national representative, Imre Ritter, was also able to give his comments on the bill. Fidesz is, of course, involved in this professional debate, and our position is that we will support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-06-156	From the Momentum Group, Mrs Éva Sebők is next. There you go. I'll give you the floor.
u2022-12-06-157	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I did not intend to speak to this item on the agenda, but I do not want to leave the minutes without criticism of what Mr Nyitrai has said. The SAO is not independent, the SAO has been used for political purposes since 2010, the SAO has been a member of the government since 2010. On several occasions, my party was in the crossfire of the SAO's attacks, behind which no non-governmental order could be suspected. Thank you very much.
u2022-12-06-158	I would like to ask my fellow Members that, in the remaining timeframes, someone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. Congressman Imre Vejkey volunteered for two minutes. This is not an option in this debate. I would ask that the Member ask for a normal word, and then I can give him the opportunity to do so in the time frame. Thank you very much. I can give you the floor now. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-159	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I just want to respond very briefly to the question. The State Audit Office always acts on the basis of the law, and whether the opposition representatives like it or not, specifically to a representative woman, this has been the case in the past and will continue to be the case in the future. Thank you.
u2022-12-06-160	Mr Zsolt Nyitrai has applied for another speech. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-161	Mr President, Dear Parliament, In fact, I should have asked for a two-minute comment if our current rules were to be allowed, because I would like to respond to the voice of the Member, to what she has said. I see you've already asked for a word, so he'll talk, too. I urge you to give an account before the National Assembly of the party financing scandal that you, your fellow parties and the entire dollar left have been involved in. I would like to listen to you about this in the next few minutes, because this is a serious political and criminal matter that we have not seen since the change of regime. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-06-162	Before I give the floor to Mrs Éva Sebők, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that, of course, they have the opportunity to respond to each other's comments, but, in the case of a time-frame debate, not a two-minute comment, but a normal comment. They can comment within this framework. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2022-12-06-163	Thank you very much. I would particularly like to thank Mr Nyitrai for presenting the communication panels coming from Lendvai Street. In any case, I'd like to ask you that if you find a batch of brown cookies in the faction office, you can smell them before you eat them. Thank you very much.
u2022-12-06-164	I will ask my fellow Members if there is anyone else who would like to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I ask you, on behalf of the government, you wish to respond to what has been said, Mr Secretary of State. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: No, thank you.]] The Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish to reply. On behalf of the authors, Mr Bánki Erik, however, responds to what has been said. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-165	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, The debate started well and we were able to hear the opinion of the Committee on Lawmaking presented with professionalism from my fellow Member David Héjj and, as my fellow Member, Imre Ritter, President of the Committee on Hungarian Nationalities, he said his comments, some of which I myself share, which are a significant step forward in the current regulation, but some amendments that will be worth considering later. I myself, as Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs or as a Member, offer my help to the President in order to help make every national election in Hungary as clear, transparent and realistic as possible, but also any other choice. I cannot really classify Mrs Éva Sebők's speech, but I do not want it, especially her last speech. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the State Audit Office operates independently of Parliament, which is guaranteed by the legislation. It is only natural that the President of the State Audit Office is elected by the Hungarian Parliament by a two-thirds majority. I do not know who you think would elect the President of the State Audit Office as head of an independent institution. If the Momentum or opposition parties have any suggestions for this, I would welcome it and welcome it, provided that it makes a proposal on the basis of democratic elections and decisions on the basis of popular representation in Parliament on how to elect the President of the State Audit Office. At the moment, I see no more democratic and purer method than the election of Parliament by a two-thirds majority, which gives the President of the State Audit Office a strong legitimacy and authority. Besides, I think that President László Windisch is another guarantee that the State Audit Office will operate in a completely clear and transparent manner in the future, in the light of professional considerations. After all, let us not forget that László Windisch, either during his previous period at the IRS or as head of the Financial Supervisory Board, has, in his activities as Vice-President of the Central Bank, revealed and examined serious cases that have solved the deception of tens of thousands of Hungarians, and there have been serious decisions in these matters that have shown that Mr. President is committed to upholding and enforcing all laws. It may be that the subsequent examination of the State Audit Office, which is quite correct in examining the fate of the billions received by the dollar-left, will certainly be uncomfortable for you. But perhaps they should have considered before accepting this money, that, under current Hungarian laws, foreign donations could be accepted by a party registered in Hungary in an election campaign, not only according to the law, but also an ethical issue. So this is not only against the law, but also unethical. But it's not surprising after the way the last few weeks have been lied to in the domestic press on this issue. I very much hope that the result of this investigation will reveal what really happened. Returning to the bill: thank you very much for the support of Mr Zsolt Nyitrai, as well as for the opinions expressed in the general and detailed debate, and the amendment that underpins the final form of the bill, which will help the State Audit Office to be as effective, successful and effective as possible, since the points contained in this bill at the initiative of the State Audit Office are designed to enable the State Audit Office to carry out its work in order to ensure that the use of public funds is clear and transparent in Hungary. I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill in the final vote tomorrow. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] (In the notary seat, Dániel Z. Carpathian Replaced by Bakos Bernadett.)
u2022-12-06-166	Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Wednesday's meeting. The Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws necessary for active consumer protection and the discussion of the summarised amendment follow up. Government referral T/1618. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héyj, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-167	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 1 December 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/1618 amending certain laws necessary for active consumer protection. Bill No. 1. [[15.00]] The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. It adopted it by 27 votes in favour, no votes against, with 8 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill on the House's table is to ensure that, at both EU and national level, there is an effective and effective procedural mechanism available to so-called authorised organisations for the benefit of consumers for measures to eliminate the infringement of consumers and for representative actions to remedy infringements. Due to the spread of digitalisation and the expansion of online trade, there is an increased risk that illegal practices committed by the same undertaking would harm a large number of consumers. Violation of consumer protection rules can be detrimental to consumers. If there are no effective means of eliminating illegal practices, it will lead to a reduction in consumer confidence and consumer satisfaction, which may also have a negative impact on the economic environment and the functioning of the market. Dear House, The proposed legislation contains several amendments for harmonisation purposes. In particular, amendments to the Directive on Accessibility for Products and Services are intended to ensure that as many products and services as possible are accessible to persons with disabilities and older people. To this end, the obligation of each economic operator to demonstrate compliance with the accessibility requirements, the obligation of each economic operator to comply with those requirements, and the rules on measures to be taken by the market surveillance authority in the event of non-compliance, shall be laid down. The amendments to transpose the Directive on representative actions make it possible to enforce consumer rights more effectively, as, on the basis of a representative action, the court may require undertakings to remedy a breach of consumer rights, such as compensation, so that the consumer community concerned does not have to sue separately to enforce its rights. Domestic representation and cross-border representation may be brought by authorised entities which are not subject to bankruptcy or winding-up proceedings or winding-up or compulsory cancellation. Ladies and gentlemen, A few weeks ago, the EU regulation on digital services entered into force, the early implementation of which is one of the legislator's priorities. With the amendment adopted by the Legislative Committee, we have taken an important step towards achieving this, since due to digital development and the expansion of social media platforms, it has become particularly important for the state to guarantee adequate protection for its citizens in the online space as well. However, it must be recognised that because there are no physical barriers in the digital space, its regulation can only be effective if we treat the area as cross-border. It is therefore to be welcomed that the Hungarian judicial portfolio was among the initiators of regulation at European level and has always helped the EU legislative process. Given what has been said, I believe that the bill before us should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-06-168	I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak. [[For signal:]] Mr. Secretary of State indicates you're taking the opportunity. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-169	Thank you for the floor. Madam President! Dear House, By adopting the law before Parliament, representative actions will provide an effective and effective mechanism of procedure to protect consumers. On the basis of the representative action, the court may, in addition to establishing the fact of the infringement, impose an obligation on undertakings to remedy the infringement in substance, such as compensation, correction or the sale of goods, so that the consumer group concerned does not have to sue separately for the enforcement of its rights. The transposition of the Accessibility Directive is a priority for the protection of people with disabilities and the elderly by improving their access to widely used products and services, so that they can truly participate in society on an equal footing. The bill also serves as a priority protection for family and family relations so that commercial practices do not target their manipulative use. The preparation of the bill was preceded by extensive consultation, partly on the basis of the newly created Consumer Protection Round Table, partly on the basis of proposals from government agencies acting in the power of consumer protection authorities, and an own initiative to ensure legal coherence. The amendment of the Legislative Committee will make it mandatory to classify programmes in age categories for so-called on-demand media services, as in the case of linear media services. During the debate on the bill, honourable Members agreed with the objectives of the bill before them, since there was no debate on professional matters, no proposal for a technical amendment was drawn up. In view of all this, I ask you to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-12-06-170	You will have 13 minutes to tell the Secretary of State about any closing words. Dear Parliament, The designated Economic Committee has not presented a rapporteur, and now the speeches by its representatives are taking place within the time frame on which it is to be put on the agenda. I give the floor to Congresswoman Éva Sebők, Momentum. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-171	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Dear rapporteur, I believe that consumer protection is an extremely important task ahead of modern legislation, whether it is Hungary or any country in the world. We could do more and better on many issues, and we will talk about these issues during the cycle, and I am the guarantee; but what has just happened with this law is absolutely amazing. The amendment itself is insufficient, but it was not necessarily intended to remedy all the problems that I will address later, which in itself is not a problem. When it came before the TAB, this bill could have been hijacked in many directions. Let me give you some examples. In my opinion, the state itself is the biggest infringement of the rights of consumers in Hungary today. The infringement against consumers occurs on a daily basis when the MÁV acts against its own passengers when Volán acts against its own passengers, when patients' rights are not guaranteed in public health and I could list them; I could refer to the procedures of the post office, Szerencségy Zrt. the procedures by the municipal companies; if I look only at my own situation, for example, the company dealing with waste processing and collection has some interesting things. When it came before the TAB, it would have been possible to divert this law, although it is obviously unfortunate to use any hijacking at this stage in order to bring these problems a little closer to the solution. It could have been ensured that MÁV's GTC and passenger regulations did not show how much the MÁV hates passengers; that these regulations did not go out to ensure that the MÁV would never have to pay compensation under any circumstances, so that it was safe to sit in first class at 5 °C; that it was safe to sit in a 48 °C car in the summer; that it was safe to tolerate 40, 60, 120, 180 minutes of delays, and that I could list them until infinity. But you have not chosen to divert this legislation in this direction, but have decided to make the Hungarian people feel as much shame as possible. Because according to your decision, in the future, when I turn on Netflix or HBO Max or Amazon Prime, and say I'd watch an episode from Glee, watch a critically recognized movie, I'd have to face it over and over and over again, how shamefully homophobic my government is. [[15.10]] Next time you want to divert the legislation, I ask you to respond to the real problems of the Hungarian people and, for example, do something about the MÁV and the Volán. We originally planned to support the legislation, and we will eventually not be able to provide this support for the changes. Thank you very much.
u2022-12-06-172	I would like to ask my fellow Members that, in the remaining timeframe, someone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] It indicates you're taking the opportunity. You have 13 minutes left for Secretary of State. There you go. I'll give you the floor.
u2022-12-06-173	Thank you for the floor. Listening to Mrs Opponent, I believe that there is a fundamental misunderstanding, but obviously there will still be a way to study the text of the legislation. So no homophobia can be read out of the legislation. Children's protection can be found in the legislation and, as with all other media content, in order to protect children, an age limit classification is applied throughout the European Union, so, of course, an age limit classification should also apply to these media services. That's all this law is about. I suggest that you consider the push of the button, the pressure of the yes button, in the final vote. Thank you very much. [[Hey, David and Dr. Imre Vejkey are applauding.]]
u2022-12-06-174	Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Wednesday's meeting. Following the Commission's request, the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain laws necessary for the effective conclusion of the conditioning procedure and the discussion of the summarised amendment proposal follow. Government referral T/2032. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-175	Madam President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 2 December 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed, at the request of the European Commission, the T/2032 on the amendment of certain laws necessary for the effective conclusion of the conditioning procedure. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. In accordance with Article 4 (1) of the Treaty, the Commission has accepted it. Ladies and Gentlemen, As a result of the consultation between the government and the European Commission, the bill before us clarifies the XXXI of 2022 amending the laws relating to certain declarations of assets relating to the control of the use of EU budget resources. transitional provisions in the rules on the declaration of assets introduced by law. Accordingly, the persons who are the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. According to the provisions of Act No 202, they fulfil their obligations to make declarations of assets, as set out in Section XXXI of 2022. In accordance with the new rules of declaration of assets introduced by law, the first declaration of assets shall be made by 31 January 2023 as it stands on 1 November 2022. Ladies and Gentlemen, Transitional provisions providing for the further application of previous obligations to make declarations of assets in force will be deregulation. This will help to avoid double the obligation to make a declaration of assets. An essential element of the bill is that the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information would be given a new mandate. In its new function, the Authority could, in accordance with the transparency authority procedure, verify the fulfilment of the publication on the website of the Central Information Public Data Register in an official capacity. In the power of the Authority, the Authority could act on its own initiative and on the basis of a notification. Ladies and Gentlemen, The government's clear aim is to implement and implement the commitments made to the European Commission. Please support the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Hey, David and Dr. Répássy are clapping.]]
u2022-12-06-176	I will ask the author if he wishes to speak at this stage. [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State has indicated that he does not wish, so he will have 15 minutes to say the possible closing word. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. I would like to ask if someone would like to speak in this debate. [[No application.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. Then, as a matter of fact, the Secretary of State will not answer either. [[For signal:]] Still, he wants to explain the government's position. Then I give the floor to Secretary of State Robert Répássy. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-177	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. I could not decide whether to speak in the debate or to close, but I would like to inform the House that, at the request of the European Commission, T/2032 on the amendment of certain laws necessary for the effective conclusion of the conditioning procedure. The legislative amendment proposed by the Committee on Legislative Affairs proposed a number of amendments to facilitate the application of the law and a number of technical clarifications on the basis of the legislative proposal. On the one hand, the proposal clarifies the transitional rules for the declaration of assets contained in sectoral legislation by facilitating the interpretation of the law. It should be pointed out that the transitional rules apply to persons already in office at the time of the entry into force of the Act. On the other hand, the proposal states that in the transparency authority procedure to be conducted by the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, the deadline for administration is 45 days and the maximum penalty for the procedure is HUF 50 million. In this context, in order to reach agreement with the European Commission, the proposal will increase the number of Vice-Presidents of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information to two persons, creating the professional, personal and organisational conditions necessary for the conduct of the transparency authority procedure. In view of what has been said, I would ask you to support this proposal by voting in the final vote, regardless of the party position. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey and David Héyi applaud.]]
u2022-12-06-178	Dear Parliament, Decisions shall be taken on Wednesday's meeting. The Commission's reports on the publication of the Convention on the Transfer of Convicted Persons in Strasbourg of 21 March 1983, the Additional Protocol of 18 December 1997 to Strasbourg, and the debate on the summary amendment proposal follow. The government referral is T/1790. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héyj, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-179	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 1 December 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed the publication of the Protocol amending the Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Transfer of Convicted Persons, of 21 March 1983, in Strasbourg, on 18 December 1997. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. pursuant to Rule 35 of the Rules of Procedure, adopted by 35 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, The Amending Protocol to the Additional Protocol to the Convention in Strasbourg sets out new directions in particular on the subject of extradition, in view of developments in international cooperation in the transfer of sentenced persons. The amendment is intended to promote the objectives of justice, in addition to promoting the social integration of convicted persons and, in two cases, to provide States Parties with the possibility of transferring prisoners without their consent. The state-of-the-art and improved additional protocol will make cooperation faster and more flexible and will also make new additions. It also extends the rules on escaped prisoners in cases where the final sentence of imprisonment voluntarily leaves the territory of the courting State and returns to the state of its nationality, knowing that it is being prosecuted or convicted legally. In addition, the link between the return decision and the sentence imposing a custodial sentence will be deleted and the scope of the provisions will be supplemented with cases of refusal of an opinion on transit. [[15.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, The Legislative Committee has adopted a proposal for an amendment, which, in addition to linguistic and technical clarifications, has also formulated an amendment containing the official English translation of the Hungarian Declaration on the Amending Protocol. In view of what has been said, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you for listening. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-12-06-180	I would like to ask the author that he wishes to speak at this stage. [[For signal:]] Mr Secretary of State indicates that you are taking this opportunity, so I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-181	Thank you very much, I'd like to comment now. Madam President, Dear House, The Additional Protocol of 18 December 1997 to the Convention on the Transfer of Convicted Persons in Strasbourg is set out in Annex LXVII of 2001. It's out of the question. It's out of the question. The Additional Protocol allows for the transfer of sentenced persons without the consent of the sentenced person in two cases in order to promote the objectives of the judiciary and to facilitate the social integration of sentenced persons, in the case of prisoners who have escaped from the judgmental state or in the case of convicted persons who have been expelled or banned. The Amending Protocol modernises and improves the Additional Protocol, making cooperation faster, more flexible and broadens the scope of sentenced persons covered by forms of cooperation included in the Additional Protocol. The Party to the Additional Protocol may declare its provisional application of the Amending Protocol pending its entry into force. In this case, the provisions of the Amending Protocol shall apply only to those parties which have made a declaration of the same effect. Hungary intends to make use of this temporary application. In view of what has been said, I would ask you to support this proposal by voting in the final vote, regardless of your party standing. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-12-06-182	Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Committee on Foreign Affairs. It is now possible for the Members to speak. If someone makes use of the opportunity to speak, please indicate. [[There's no candidate.]] Since I do not see a candidate, the debate is closed. Mr. Secretary, do you wish to answer? I asked you formally. [[For signal:]] Obviously, he doesn't want to. I therefore inform my fellow Members that the decisions will take place on Wednesday's sitting. There is a debate on the Commission's reports on the amendment of certain criminal law and related other laws and the summary amendment proposal. The government referral is T/1837. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Dávid Héyj, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-183	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 1 December 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/1837 on the amendment of certain laws on criminal matters and related matters. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 26 votes in favour, no votes against, with 8 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The bill before us includes, on the one hand, the amendment of the three Codes of Criminal Procedure and Enforcement, on the other hand, the amendment of other criminal law laws, such as the law on international criminal assistance and criminal cooperation with the Member States of the European Union, and the amendment of the law on criminal law measures applicable to the legal person in connection with Be., and, on the other hand, the minor clarification of the law on criminal record in the context of the criminal law enforcement law. Further amendments to non-criminal laws are also included in the proposal under a coherent amendment of the related laws. The Legislative Committee has adopted three amendments to the bill, which include additional additions in addition to linguistic and technical clarifications. These were justified on the one hand by complying with the obligation arising from the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, while on the other hand its further provisions concern the Asylum Act, the Criminal Code and the Police Act. Dear House, From time to time, EU and international obligations, decisions of the Constitutional Court and feedback from law enforcement bodies require that criminal law laws be reviewed by the legislator. This revision has been carried out, as a result of which the objectives set out are properly served by the proposed legislation, and should therefore be supported in any event. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-12-06-184	I'll ask the Secretary of State if he wants to speak. [[For signal:]] It says yes. There you go. I'll give you the floor.
u2022-12-06-185	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. Dear House, The T/1837 in front of you. Legislative bill No 1 contains amendments to criminal law and certain related laws. The substance of the amendment proposed by the Committee on Legislative Affairs is the following: amendments to the Law on Criminal Procedure are intended to clarify certain rules of the private and secondary proceedings. The current text of the bill leaves the time limit for representation to be set for the private accuser and the substitute private prosecutor in the event that, in view of his persistent serious illness, the court does not set a time limit for a personal hearing or trial. This deficiency is covered by the amending proposal. On the other hand, the amending proposal contains a more understandable definition of the distinction between the addition, correction of the facts and the determination of the different facts. Thirdly, the proposal responds to the well-founded application of the law that the establishment of a prosecutor's position in large-scale, complex cases takes longer. The amendments to Btk. concern two issues. The bill provides for a non-compliance with the basic law on the regulation of the concept of drugs 31/2021. It amends Btk. and the pharmaceutical law according to the expectations of the Ab decision. In addition, C-821/19 by the Court of Justice of the European Union In order to comply with the judgment in Case C-375 P, it became necessary to provide for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 353/A. In addition, it is necessary to promote and support illegal immigration within the meaning of Article 4 of the Treaty. In this context, it is also necessary to amend the provisions of the law on police and the law on asylum referring to this fact. The main point of the proposed amendment to the Violation Act is that it establishes legislation similar to that in criminal proceedings in relation to the presumption of service and service, and that, in order to ensure the effectiveness of the organisation of mediation meetings and in particular the interests of the parties, the amendment extends the suspension period by 15 days. As a result of the proposed amendments to the bankruptcy law, in addition to the necessary technical amendments, the proposed legislation ensures uniform case-law in order to better protect criminal assets, so that only the designated public liquidation husband and the financial instruments that can be used in liquidation can be released only in his proceedings. Finally, the proposal for an amendment to the Law on Legal Assistance aims at simplifying and speeding up the administration of inclusion in the register of legal aid. The purpose of the amendment to the Expert Law is to encourage the transition of judicial experts to electronic contact. We thanked the committee for its addition. Together with other technical improvements made by the Committee, we support the amendment, and we ask you to vote in favour of it tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-12-06-186	Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now possible for the Members to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] No one wants to live with this, so the debate is closed. Secretary of State, would you like to answer? [[For signal:]] He says he doesn't want to. I therefore draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that the decisions will take place on Wednesday's sitting. Dear Parliament, We now have a debate before we decide on the Commission's resolution on the interpretation of house rules. I would like to inform you that the DK Group has asked the Parliament to decide on the Committee on Justice 3/2022-2026. The rejection of IÜB's ad hoc resolution. Application E/2217. You can find it on the website. [[15.30]] In the debate, the rapporteur for the political group that proposed the decision and then the committee responsible for interpreting the house rules may be the first to speak, and then the speeches will take place. First, I give the floor to Balázs Barkóczi, a representative of DK, within a five-minute timeframe. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-187	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Before I tell you why we are initiating the rejection of the position of the Committee on Justice, let me briefly explain what the amendment to the agenda and the proposal for an exceptional procedure concerned. At the Madrid summit of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation at the end of June, Sweden and Finland were formally invited to attend. The two accession protocols were adopted in Brussels on 5 July. The protocols must also be ratified by the parliaments of the NATO Member States. This happened almost everywhere, in 28 out of the 30 NATO countries, only Turkey and Hungary did not ratify this in their own legal order. This is contrary to the European and Hungarian interest in ensuring that NATO is as strong as possible. In order to allow the two North European countries to join the NATO Defence Alliance as soon as possible, we propose supplementing the agenda. In accordance with the house rules, the necessary number of signatures were attached to the initiative of the exceptional procedure. Let me add one half sentence. The Group of the Democratic Coalition believes that, in fact, it is about rejection that Viktor Orbán merely wants to buy time for Putin, who is storming Ukraine. Let me now turn to the technical justification for rejection, as the Democratic Coalition Group finds it outrageous that in recent years the Fidesz majority has shaped the parliamentary law and house rules in such a way that, among other things, the right of opposition representatives to initiate an amendment to the agenda in plenary is impossible. However, the adaptation of legislation to the opposition has not been perfect in a good fidesz way. House rules are 61. Paragraph 2 of the Act contains only the following, and I quote: The proposal for an exception submitted by the Member requires the signature of at least one fifth of the Members in support of it. However, the paragraph does not specify in what capacity, for example, the representative may submit a proposal for an exception only as a presentation, nor does it indicate the relationship of paragraph 2 with paragraph (1). If paragraph 2 were to follow from paragraph 1, the legislator would have had to state the text of the paragraph in such a way that, if the Member of Parliament is the Member of the national Parliament, at least one fifth of the Members would have to be signed in support of the proposal for an exception. However, this, in our view, results in a disproportionate and unjustified limitation of Members' rights. Art. 61. Paragraph 3 of Section 3 of the Act provides that the exceptional procedure shall be set out in Article 34. Without prejudice to the time limit laid down in paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article, at the latest one hour before the opening of the sitting at which at least one fifth of the Members shall propose that the draft bill be discussed and adopted be placed on the agenda. This text, quoted above, contains an alternative, which, in our view, follows that Members do not have to be the author of the motion on the proposal for an exception. Art. 61. On the basis of the joint interpretation of paragraphs 2 and 3 the Democratic Coalition Group asks the Honourable Parliament to state that the proposal for an exception has been submitted in accordance with the house rules and therefore reject the ad hoc position of the Committee on Justice. Thank you so much for listening.
u2022-12-06-188	Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, President of the Committee on Justice, also in a five-minute timeframe. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-189	Madam President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In short, the facts. T/637 on the accession of Finland to NATO For bill No.3 Mr Ferenc Gyurcsány, DK-president submitted a proposal for an exception, which Mr. Speaker of the House was appointed in accordance with Article 29 of the HSZ. § 3 (a) refused on the grounds that the Member was not entitled to submit the proposal. In relation to this refusal, HSZ is 29. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the author of the rejected document may request a case-by-case opinion of the committee responsible for interpreting the provisions of the house rules, subject to additional conditions. This request was discussed by the Judicial Committee at its meeting on 29 November 2022 and was submitted by 3/2022-26. IÜB's ad hoc position. In the resolution, our committee noted that the rejection was well founded, and the Speaker acted in accordance with the house rules when considering the motion. The HSZ sets out precisely the rules for initiating the exceptional procedure and empowers only the applicant of the individual motion concerned to submit the proposal for an exception, and in this case it was the government. In the Committee's view, it is wrong to take the initiative that the rule on the signing of one fifth of the Members should be applied as a separate provision. Although Members have the right to initiate an exceptional procedure, they can only do so in respect of their own motion. The Ogy Act is 61. According to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the Judicial Committee published its ad hoc position in writing on the day of the decision, 29 November 2022. Within 15 days of the date on which the resolution was sent, the petitioner of the rejected document may then request the decision of the Parliament. The initiating Member made use of this opportunity and requested that the committee's position be rejected. In its request, the originator almost literally reiterated the arguments with which the committee also requested a decision. Since our committee has studied the issue thoroughly and has made an informed decision, I ask you to support our resolution that we have adopted. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-12-06-190	Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent representative to speak in a two-minute time frame. I would like to ask, on behalf of the factions and of the independent Members, that someone would like to speak. [[For signal:]] Congressman Balázs Barkóczi, I give you the floor.
u2022-12-06-191	Thank you very much, Madam President, and I promise to speak very briefly. Congressman referred to entitlement. Then let me read that 61st one more time. Paragraph 3 which states that an exceptional procedure may be proposed no later than one hour before the opening of the sitting to which the rapporteur or, in the case referred to in paragraph 2 above, at least one fifth of the Members propose that the draft bill be discussed and adopted. So once again, I would like to emphasise that this text I have highlighted contains an alternative, so I think it is wrong and we believe that the Government's argument that it follows that it cannot be the author of the motion on the proposal for an exception, if it has not been submitted by him, is wrong. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2022-12-06-192	No one has made any further comments, so I would like to ask Mr Balázs Barkóczi first of all how he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] He says he doesn't want to. I will also ask Congressman Vejkey. (To signal:) He wants to take advantage of the opportunity. Here, I'll give you the floor in a two-minute time frame.
u2022-12-06-193	Thank you very much. Madam President, I do not want to take advantage of it, but very briefly: once again, I ask this House that the Committee on Justice under Article 3/2022-26. IÜB's ad hoc position is supported. Thank you.
u2022-12-06-194	The decision will take place on Wednesday's meeting. [[15.40]] I would like to inform you that the DK Group has asked the Parliament to decide on the Committee on Justice 4/2022-2026. Refusal of IÜB's ad hoc position. Application E/2218. You can find it on the website. In the debate, the rapporteur for the group that proposed the decision and then the committee responsible for interpreting the rules of the house may be the first to speak. The speeches will then take place. First, I give the floor to Mr Balázs Barkóczi, from the DK fraction, in a five-minute timeframe. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-195	Thank you very much. Madam President, Dear House, Fellow Members! I'm not gonna take the five minutes I have. In fact, what I wanted to say about the case, I did in my previous comment on the previous agenda. I ask everyone to support the rejection of this ad hoc resolution. Thank you.
u2022-12-06-196	I am speaking to Mr Imre Vejkey, President of the Committee on Justice, who also has a five-minute timeframe. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-197	Madam President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/638 on the accession of Sweden to NATO Mr Ferenc Gyurcsány, DK, also submitted a proposal for an exception, which Mr Speaker of the House in accordance with Article 29 of the HSZ. Paragraph 3 (a) also refused on the basis of the same reason, i.e. which I have already said in the context of the previous item that the Member is not entitled to submit the proposal. In relation to this refusal, the author of the rejected document also asked for a case-by-case opinion of the committee responsible for interpreting the house rules. The Committee also discussed this request and also made its 4/2022-26 at the meeting on 29 November 2022. IÜB's ad hoc position. In the resolution, our committee noted that this refusal was also well founded, i.e. the Speaker acted in accordance with the rules of the House when deciding on the motion. I do not wish to repeat the reasons why our statement is well founded, as I have already explained in detail in the previous item on the agenda. The Committee also published its resolution in writing on 29 November 2022, after which MEP Ferenc Gyurcsány asked for the decision of the Parliament as the author of the rejected text and the rejection of the committee's resolution. Since our committee has also studied this issue thoroughly, it has made an informed decision, and I would ask this House once again to support our adopted resolution in this respect as well. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-12-06-198	Dear Parliament, Now, one representative per group of representatives can present his position in a two-minute time frame and the first independent Member who is asked to speak in a two-minute time frame. I would like to ask, on behalf of the factions and of the independent Members, that someone would like to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I will ask Congressman Balázs Barkóczi to respond. [[For signal:]] Here's the word for you in a two-minute time frame.
u2022-12-06-199	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, We still do not believe that the position of the Justice Committee is well founded and therefore we are asking for its rejection. Thank you.
u2022-12-06-200	Congressman Imre Vejkey also has the opportunity to respond within a two-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2022-12-06-201	Madam President, Thank you for the floor. And I ask this House that the Committee on Justice 4/2022-26. Support the IÜB's ad hoc position. Thank you.
u2022-12-06-202	The decision will take place on Wednesday's meeting. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time to speak after the agenda. After the agenda, MEP Sándor Fazekas, representative of Fidesz, spoke with the title of the Honorary Consulate of the Republic of Karcag. I'll give the floor to Congressman in five minutes. Here you go. [[There's no sound.]] Congressman! Your card's not plugged in. If you'd be so kind as to replace that, then you can turn on your microphone. [[It's happening.]]
u2022-12-06-203	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, An important anniversary is coming, as 25 years old is the honorary consulate of the Republic of Kazakhstan, which opened on 24 February 1998 in Karcagon. In Karcagon and the surrounding settlements, there are Kuns who are ethnographically related to the Kichaks of Kazakhstan, and this kinship is still being considered and even tended to an increasing extent. The honorary consulate operates at the Karcag Mayor's Office. The relationship with the office has been very good from the beginning, with regular cooperation during both Kazakh and urban events. They can communicate with clients who visit the consulate in both Hungarian and Russian languages, but Kazakh is also available for consultations. The honorary consulate considers the representation of the interests of the Republic of Kazakhstan in the region as a basic task, namely in Hungary in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg, Hajdú-Bihar, Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok, Bács-Kiskun, Pest, Csongrád and Békés counties. The mission of the consulate is to deal with and assist citizens of Kazakhstan, Hungary and other third countries. Its task is to present the Republic of Kazakhstan, to broaden the relations between the Kazakh and Hungarian people, to strengthen the relationship between the great and small Kuns and the Kazakhs. It is important to expand business cooperation between Kazakhstan and Hungary and to develop cultural, artistic and sports relations between the two countries. Major milestones from the last 25 years. Between 1998 and 2006, there were the first very early and difficult years, since there was no honorary consulate on the part of Kazakhstan in Hungary. As I mentioned, the honorary consulate was established in 1998 on the basis of bilateral negotiations and agreements. The consulate has contributed to the development of bilateral cooperation between countries, including in agricultural, industrial, commercial and cultural areas. It was important to accept the mutual visa waiver in case of stay in Hungary not exceeding 90 days, or in case of stay in Kazakhstan. During this period, President László Sólyom received President Nursultan Nazarbayev Kazakh. Start of educational cooperation with the city of Almati. In 2002, Kazakh artists exhibited at the Széchenyi Garden Restaurant in Budapest and Karcagon in the Déryné Cultural Center. In 2003, a traditional spring celebration, Nauryz, took place in Karcagon. In 2005, there was a World Wrestling Championship in Budapest, where Kazakh athletes also participated, their reception and hospitality took place in the Széchenyi Garden Restaurant in Budapest. Their leader was the sports minister Yuri Melnichenko Olympics. Between 2006 and 2010, the consulate was suspended for reasons beyond understanding during the second Gyurcsány government and the Bajnai government. Of course, the needy Kazakh and Hungarian citizens knew in this period that they could look with confidence at the honorary consular office, which provided all the help they needed in the changed circumstances. By the way, on 21 October 2006, the Kuns, the traditionalists, the local government workers and representatives concerned protested against the closure of the honorary consulate before the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. After the parliamentary elections in 2010, all obstacles were removed from the official reopening of the honorary consular office. The consulate actively contributed to Kunok II in 2012. At the World Summit. László Horváth Honorary Kazakh Consul at Kunok II. At the opening event of his World Summit, he received his credentials from the Ambassador of the Republic of Kazakhstan. Minister for Finance Mihály Varga has contributed to the organisation of the first intergovernmental committee, and a number of intergovernmental cooperation agreements have since been concluded. It was especially important that a direct Wizz Air flight was launched between Budapest and Astana. [[15.50]] In 2017, the consulate also participated in the Astana World Exhibition in the preparation, organisation and conduct of the Hungarian Pavilion's programmes. Here, the pavilion and the Hungarian exhibition received serious recognition. Since the consulate was established, the event on the occasion of Independence Day will be held in December each year with the Kazakh Embassy. The consulate will be able to cooperate in the organization of various bilateral meetings and catering, as the co-chair of the Kazakh-Hungarian Business Council, the head of the investment firm, has already been to Hungary and Karcagon. We hope that this work will continue in the future. That is why the existence of the consulate is important, and this is the current jubilee. Thank you for the floor. Thank you for listening. [[Dr. Répássy is applauding Robert.]]
u2022-12-06-204	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its meeting at 8:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed.
