u2022-10-05-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] The 4th day of the fall session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and Sándor Berki will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, The report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his deputies, and the joint general debate on the proposal for a decision on its adoption, will follow. Report submitted by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights B/16. and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Judicial Committee, H/542. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Ákos Kozma, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the rapporteur of the report, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2022-10-05-1	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, It is my great pleasure to present to you once again the activities of our office in the past year, this time the cornerstones of our work on the year 2021. Thank you for the opportunity to highlight in a live language all the results, questions, inquiries and cases and experiences that can give you a picture of the past year of the Ombudsman's legal protection. As last year, it is appropriate for me to start this year by thanking my deputies, Vice-President Erzsébet Szalayné Sándor, and Deputy Commissioner Gyula Bándi, who, with their work, have contributed greatly to the successful work and activities of our office, and I appreciate the work carried out in the domestic and international arena on the protection of the rights of nationalities and the interests of future generations, which enhances the prestige and recognition of the Hungarian ombudsman institution. In addition, I would like to thank some of my colleagues for the dedicated, unbroken professional work that the office has done this time in a challenging year. Finally, I thank all of us for our trust in sharing their problems and difficulties that have made the exercise of their rights difficult in the last year. If we have not always and always had the opportunity to conduct an investigation or take action, we have tried to provide proper explanations and help as quickly as possible in all situations. Madam President, Dear House, Finally, allow me to thank you, the Parliament, all Members, for the special attention, the questions, the signals, the attention that you gave us last year. We have always tried to answer and review these with our colleagues as quickly and as best we can. We will continue to strive to meet the high expectations and current challenges set out for us, and to earn our trust in our office this year, 2022. The foreword of our report begins with the idea that we have been living in constant temporaryity, normal extraordinaryness, or challenges, for so long that we are almost used to it. Yet, when the text of our report was written, there was no war and the humanitarian emergency involved, the economic crisis accompanying it. Dear Parliament, Since then, historical events in our country and the world have changed with dizzying speed. Due to the power of the present, it may be a little strange to report on the ombudsman's activity related to the epidemic situation in 2021, but my current mandate is to inform the Parliament about our activity in 2021. In the ombudsman's report, you can read about a number of small events, results, minor or larger steps that give rise to hope, which you may not even notice in the noise of the public. However, a positive, constructive approach is not equal to satisfaction or lack of criticism. Our report also shows cases where immediate professional action is needed or we propose to remedy maladministration. We reflect our reports, findings, and we are truly proud of them in court decisions, the Constitutional Court decisions, protocols or even in legislative work, or in any other context, for example, if our reports promote the application of law as educational material. I am convinced that we do not have to agree on everything, just as we do not have to agree with all the positions of the Ombudsman. The public debate and the problem issue will also lead us forward if there are no immediate and tangible results; if all the Commissioner's recommendations are not fully implemented, but the substantive constitutional dialogue and preparatory work will be launched. Not for the first time, and not for the last time, I stress to you that, as an Ombudsman, I have believed since I took office that action, personal presence, complements our human rights messages. The visits to the institution prove to me that without personal experience, conversations and meetings, openness, honesty and trust, our legal protection work can never be complete. As in 2020, the Covid epidemic situation and related emergency measures, restrictions with varying intensity, but also with a significant spread of citizens' everyday life in 2021. As a result, in the practice of our office, cases and complaints related to the epidemic are becoming less and less separated. We faced a multi-faceted challenge with regard to our operation, because our office did not simply have to maintain the continuous operation in 2021, the reception of an increasing number of complaints, but we had to keep in mind and monitor the rapid change of the rules in the changed situation, the complex situation of the application of the law. [[9.10]] All of this was necessary so that, where appropriate, we could take an out-of-court position, act, and inform the complainants who came to us in a clear way. Dear Parliament, From the legal protection side, we had to take account of the reasons for the limitation of the extraordinary legal order at the same time, while at the same time drawing the attention of the authorities to the important aspects of the enforcement of fundamental rights. In 2021, a significant number of campaign-like submissions in a few weeks challenged, for example, the rules on the use of protection certificates; a general limitation of rights was violated, of course in their own individual situation. In order to respond quickly and in-depthly, we issued a resolution analysing the constitutional requirements to be applied in the application of the protection certificates, and we turned to the Minister of Interior and the Minister of Human Resources, who led the operational tribe, with proposals to help resolve the problems arising in the spirit of constructive cooperation. An example of a rapid ombudsman's reaction is also the fact that a complainant has asked for our assistance on the need for PCR and antigen testing and self-financing when taking elective healthcare due to the lack of legislation. In our report at the time, we stated that mandatory testing is not required by law, but by circulars or individual ministerial instructions, so that the rule of law may be violated due to inadequate regulatory levels and further uncertainty in content. As a positive point, I am able to inform the Honourable Parliament that, in response to the report, the government quickly corrected the situation, announced the Government decree on the emergency arrangements for planned dental benefits, rehabilitation benefits and planned invasive interventions, which addressed the issues covered by our report and addressed. Allow me to give you some statistics. In 2019 we published 57 reports, 102 in 2020, and 147 recommendations in 2021, with a total of 260 recommendations. The other important measure, which I would like to highlight from our report, is the total number of cases: while in 2019 5963, in 2020 7190 and in 21 we received 7354 submissions, from which our office completed nearly 6,000 cases and closed them in 2021. We continued our national series of successful and fruitful visits in the spring of 2020 in 2021, with the aim of monitoring the exceptional measures taken in relation to the prevention and management of the epidemic, their effects, in particular with regard to the protection of the rights of vulnerable groups in society. This series of visits is also important, because in this course we have had discussions with the heads of the institutions, firsthand we have been able to get to know the living conditions of the people living there, the children, the beneficiaries, the people with disabilities and the prisoners, and we have learned about the emergency strategy of the institutions, its practical application. It shows the volume of work, Honourable Parliament, that between 1 January and 31 December last year, we visited 86 locations, including residential social institutions, penitentiary institutions, children's homes, special children's homes, and I personally, and the results have always been reported in the form of reports. Allow me to highlight a few examples from some professional areas after statistical data. At the beginning of 2021, we concluded our investigation into the procedure for applying for a delay in starting school in a comprehensive manner, as well as questions of practical application, following parental complaints. Our report, which we published, expressed a number of criticisms of fundamental rights: the way in which the procedure was implemented, its indirect and direct effects, the uncertainties of the legislation and the procedures of the Education Office and the expert committees, and we have made recommendations. It shows the strength and quality of the reasoning of the report, Honourable Parliament, that the findings contained in it partly reflected in the Constitutional Court's decision on the subject. It is an important and important result that, as a result of this, the rules on the procedure for determining the maturity of the school have changed, and the practice of applying the law has changed. With the utmost care, we sought the opportunity to gain experience. I would like to highlight a number of our investigations that have been linked to the focus of the epidemic. Here, too, following the examination of complaints, we asked the professional wallet to create the legal possibilities to exempt persons who are unable to wear masks on the basis of individual criteria. In another report, we found maladministration in the context of a student relationship terminated due to a lack of participation in digital education. And a third case: on the question of assessing school absence due to an epidemic situation, we made a point of principle. Many complaints concerned institutional rules on compulsory use of masks in schools, their unclear application and excessive rigour. Complaints about social benefits were also typical. In 2021, as in every year, we also examined the winter, crisis-time operation of the homelessness system of the metropolitan and some rural metropolitan cities. The Ombudsman, Honourable Parliament, is constantly seeking the opportunity to promote cooperation that will help remedy the backsliding situations. Allow me, and let me boast to this House, that in 2021 I asked the National Command of Penalty Enforcement to take part in the renovation and renovation of the special children's home in Rum, Vas county, and of the troubles maintained by the Saint Augusta Child Protection Service. We agreed on the active involvement of the National Criminal Enforcement Command in consultation with the National Commander. The direct background of this case was that our office conducted an unannounced on-site inspection at the special children's home in Rum, in which we recorded in our report that some of the premises of the institution needed to be renovated, the courtyard was not surrounded. Thanks to prison staff and prisoners, both homes could be renewed by Christmas 2021. This has been achieved with the joint work of prisoners in prison and a number of prison workers, without any compensation and without any cost. I think that we can be truly proud of this, and we would like to continue our activity in this regard in the year. Dear Parliament, Ombudsperson inquiries sometimes have quick and tangible results. A good example of this is the fact that, in connection with our report, we have established that the regulation of telephone contact between persons in prison and the setting of the relevant rates violates the right to respect for private and family life. In order to settle this situation, we have turned to the national commander of the prison. As a result, the commander indicated that he had taken action to reduce the minutes in consultation with the service provider. The rules of procedure have been improved in terms of the rights of prisoners. Allow me to say a few words about our legislative activity. In view of its constitutional function and competence, our Office is specifically involved in codification work only exceptionally. At the same time, by drafting our legislative proposals, by giving a fundamental opinion on draft legislation, we have the opportunity to make a meaningful impact on the preparation of legislation. In 2021 we received 33 draft legislative acts for an opinion, which is exactly the same as the 2020 figure, but this, and again, is less than a third of the proposals sent to us in previous years. [[9.20]] Of course, we are aware of this, and the reason for that was certainly last year, too, that the special legal order that entered into force during the emergency period also had an impact in the legislative opinion exercise in 2021. The legislator wanted to give quick answers to the legal relationships requiring regulation, so unfortunately, the negotiation of legislation has been pushed into the background. However, I must tell the Honourable Parliament that a number of proposals of fundamental importance in which a previous ombudsman's report was issued have not been agreed. Allow me to say a few words about our work on equal treatment. As is well known to you, on 1 January 2021, our office took over the previous tasks of the Equal Treatment Authority, the separate department of our office has carried out this task since 1 January last year. Last year's expo was just a sign, but this year I can confirm that the melt-in took place smoothly and smoothly. The report before you also includes information on the work of this area. With some statistics, I'd like to support these sentences. It must be pointed out that this is a very specific procedure. In our proceedings under the Equal Treatment Act, acting in this capacity, we can not only propose to remedy the infringement, but we can also take a binding administrative decision in which we can impose sanctions. In taking over the tasks of the Authority, there is a wider scope of investigation and action than ever before in order to take action to ensure that the requirements of equal treatment are met. Our statistical data show that integration has not been a break in complaints. In 2021, the Directorate-General for Equal Treatment dealt with 462 cases, of which 265 were official cases, including, of course, official cases from previous years, judicial review and enforcement cases. The Directorate-General concluded 169 proceedings and 59 negative decisions on substantive decisions, 26 infringement decisions, in five cases a penalty was imposed in 2021. The other area I would like to talk about is the national preventive mechanism. Based on the so-called OPCAT National Preventive Mechanism, our office acts in Hungary under the responsibility of the National Preventive Mechanism. In addition to the previous investigation of the places of detention due to the epidemic, last year we considered it our task to verify the extent to which the measures applied to prevent the spread of the epidemic affected the rights of the prisoners. Another aspect of the national preventive mechanism's investigations was how detention sites ensure the conditions for preventing and preventing the spread of infection. Visiting methods established in 2020 were also used in 2021. We have paid particular attention to the changes caused by the epidemic. As regards treatment, as regards information on epidemiological measures, we have reviewed the agenda everywhere, in particular on education, working, spending time on leisure, ensuring free air, guaranteeing health care in an epidemic situation. The studies covered, of course, the possibilities of contact, the measures taken to compensate for restrictions to reduce the risk of infection. In 2021, Honourable Parliament, we visited 23 detention sites, I visited them personally with my colleagues, and we applied the same method at all locations. Let me say a few words about the activities of our law enforcement board. In the context of our competence to investigate police complaints in the year, I would like to highlight the issue of appeals to the Honourable Parliament in the context of the complaint procedure under the law of the police, as we have the opportunity to make a statement here against police actions and the use of coercive instruments. There were 767 cases on the law enforcement board during the reference year. We received 163 complaints, offences, criminal proceedings and 529 submissions concerning criminal offences against police measures. LAPD closed 696 cases last year. In 2021, 21 complaints against police measures were reported. In each of the police measures concerned, the national police commissioner has carried out the regulatory procedure and I must point out, Honourable Parliament, that in 16 of the 21 cases he has taken an administrative decision which is entirely identical to our decision, in 3 cases which is partly the same as our decision, and in 2 cases which are contrary to our decision. We also visited a number of border crossing points in the reference year, where we also monitored the implementation of the measures taken to prevent the spread of the epidemic and border protection. I need to highlight a special activity for the law enforcement board. At the beginning of 2021, we started to check the school guards in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county. Our colleagues visited 75 educational institutions in the area of competence of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County Police Department, and I visited most of them, where we visited all the educational institutions in the county where there is a school guard. We listened to the heads of the institutions, the school guards who served, and examined the material conditions needed for the activity. The experience of the study at county level was that the school communities accepted the presence of the school guardian after a shorter or longer period of time and recognised the positive elements of the institution. Respondents highlighted in particular the conflict prevention nature of the institution. I would like to say a few words about our public-interest reporting protection work. In connection with our activities concerning the protection of the rights of whistleblowers of general interest, 537 submissions were received in 2021 via the electronic system for reporting in the public interest. Interestingly, compared to the average of the last five years, this is a 70 percent increase. As a result of the statutory definition, 306 submissions, i.e. nearly 60 percent of the submissions, were actually made in the public interest. For the whistleblower, the system provides an important opportunity to remain anonymous, i.e. anonymous, to the body that investigates the notification. For this reason, nearly 90 percent of the notifiers have requested that their personal data be made available exclusively to our office. Following the examination of the notifications, it was found that the submissions were justified in approximately half of the cases. In these cases, the determining bodies shall ensure that the circumstances are remedied in order to promote the social interests at risk. Last but not least, I would like to say a few words about the activities of my deputies. First, let me say a few words about the work of the Deputy Commissioner for Nationality. Two years after the pandemic and the resulting emergency, the epidemic situation is inevitable in the world, so it continues to make it difficult for public authorities, institutions and public services to operate, but the re-launch of economic and social life was also the possibility of a fresh start for the majority of ethnic public life and for the majority of ethnic communities. The above processes have had a double impact on the trends in the circulation of national minority law. Nearly a decade ago, the trend in classic ethnic law has been gradually evolving, but only indirectly in its effects has become a structure in 2020, which has been consolidated by 2021. Instead of individual maladministration, we have increasingly received a lower number of submissions of much greater importance for examining general complaints concerning all nationalities. This process is directly linked to the legal awareness of people of nationality, the explosion of online enforcement opportunities generated by a pandemic and the increasing activity of other bodies of national law protection, local and national authorities, advocates and Member States. [[9.30]] In our experience, stakeholders have often asked their elected leaders and bodies for help in individual cases, since ethnic authorities and institutions typically had the right weight and authority to deal with and solve minor problems. The Deputy Commissioner for Nationality was first and foremost asked questions of legal importance and maladministration. In many cases, representatives of ethnic communities have jointly requested the assistance and assistance of the Deputy Ombudsman. These cases were more complex, aimed at a full examination of the structure, and required special expertise, greater analytical capacity or systemic knowledge. It is important to stress the role of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities and the Association of National National Governments in professional relations: reliability, an extensive network of contacts, legal and interest enforcement experience, and the capacity to act on nationality policy make these bodies an excellent professional partner. Thank you for your work, and we also trust in effective future cooperation in this area. In 2021, however, the number of cases involving nationality was 391, which represents an 11 percent increase. Mail traffic also increased in 21: 2213 paper or electronic documents were handled at the Deputy Commissioner for Nationality Secretariat. Four joint reports, five resolutions in principle, seven proposals for implementing the law are the result of the work of the Vice-Presidents. I would like to mention a number of priority topics: education, higher education in nationality, exercise of the right of agreement, ethnic individual and community names, cases and complaints related to nationality in serious social circumstances, criminal matters or criminal, criminal and police matters. In addition, I would like to say a few words in the second part of the activities of the Vice-President, on his work to protect the interests of future generations. In 2021, a total of 535 cases were dealt with to protect the interests of future generations; the number of cases closed was 449. I would like to highlight the following items from our analytical work during the year, the Deputy Commissioner's work: eight joint reports, two positions in principle, six calls for attention. On 11 occasions, the Vice-Presidents issued a thematic communication, mostly on certain issues of sustainability. Some of the issues with this report are: remediation and environmental management, forest management, forest management, forest management, waste management, aviation protection, livestock farming, noise complaints and historic protection. 30 percent of citizens' complaints in this area are related to Budapest and Pest county, 27 percent are national problems, and 43 percent are complaints from other counties. The most common types of cases are general environmental complaints, air cleanliness protection, noise and vibration protection and waste management complaints. Ladies and gentlemen. Dear Parliament, I would like to conclude, in summary, that our ombudsman's report is obviously seen in many ways, it is possible to argue with it, to agree with it, to think further, one cannot be ignored. Not because through complaints, people, the current issues of society, doubts, problems of official activities appear in it as a kind of litmus paper. The report is sent directly, in the form of reports and recommendations, and indirectly as an experience to the current practitioners of public power, including the Parliament. I think that in 2021 we tried to do what we had the chance to do while continuing to expand our tasks. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] As last year, I can promise you that we would like to continue our legal protection activities for people with the same perseverance and the same professional standards in 2022. Madam President, Dear House, Finally, I would like to ask you to support and adopt our 2011 Ombudsperson's report. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-10-05-2	I now give the floor to Mr Zoltán Kovács, rapporteur for the Committee on Justice, rapporteur for the proposal for a decision, also in a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-10-05-3	Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Commission, Commissioner and Vice-Presidents, Dear fellow Members, I'm not taking the 30 minutes. I'd like to talk about the point. According to the task of the Committee on Justice of the Parliament, as the committee responsible for tasks and powers, I stress the B/16 on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2021. At its meeting in July, she considered it appropriate to accept it. Over the years, the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, which carries out basic protection activities under Article 30 of the Fundamental Law, are becoming increasingly known to citizens; anyone can initiate their proceedings. In addition, it sets out, in general terms, the fundamental rights of the Commissioner to investigate or investigate irregularities that have come to his attention in relation to fundamental rights, to initiate general or specific measures to remedy them. Furthermore, the law on the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights highlights the areas to which particular attention must be paid. The Committee noted that the report presented the fundamental rights protection activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the rights of children, the interests of future generations, the rights of nationalities living in Hungary, and the most vulnerable social groups, in particular the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities, at the usual professional level, in accordance with the regulations and in sufficient detail. Last year, as did almost all organisations, the Ombudsman had to continue with the challenges of the coronal virus epidemic, the practice of taking action on a new footing due to changed circumstances, followed by the fundamental rights institutional system. Ladies and gentlemen, As usual, briefly, which has already been partially mentioned, I would also like to sum up some important figures in figures. An increase in submissions to the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights continued. As the Commissioner said, he was given new powers, and several organisations were integrated into the Ombudsman's office, which caused the increase in numbers in the first place. If compared, 5693 in 2019, 7190 in 2020 and 735 in 2021 were submitted. From these motions, nearly 6,000 cases were completed in the year of the report. These new powers and tasks, with which the Parliament gave the ombudsman's institution, gave this office a wider opportunity to seek out rights-seeking citizens. I would also like to mention some of the issues raised at the committee meeting, not entirely. On 1 January 21, the Office took over the duties of the former Equal Treatment Authority, which is carried out by a separate department of the Office. On the basis of the Commissioner's report, the Committee welcomed the smooth operation of the merger and the integration of complaints did not constitute a setback. At the committee's meeting, the Commissioner explained that the integration of the Equal Treatment Authority into the Office was constitutionally and publicly justified, as he did not only lower the level of protection but also increased the level of equal treatment. The Equal Treatment Authority was an autonomous administrative body, while the ombudsman institution was a public-law independent institution operating independently of any other body. On the basis of the legislative decision, there was no change in the rules of procedure, only the determining body changed, so that the affairs of the parties concerned were dealt with by a body with greater independence. The data also show that nearly the same number of cases came to the Directorate-General for Equal Treatment as the former authority. The Committee also considers it important that the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights has opened six new regional offices, where colleagues receive customers personally, continuously, every working day of the week, and even administrative matters relating to equal treatment can be initiated. [[9.40]] With regard to the classification or reclassification of cases, the Commissioner has informed me that, I quote, the course does not belong to the Ombudsman, but to the authorities, so the system is set up. It is also positive that, in each case involving nationalities, the Deputy Commissioner's expert opinion should also be sought in order to initiate an official matter or a general Ombudsman's case. It should be noted that, by the way, these cases relating to equal treatment, such as belonging to nationality, are a high percentage, so that, on the basis of the Deputy Commissioner's professional opinion and on this basis, they can decide which type of case or procedure should be initiated in the case in question. The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights continues to have the possibility to file a complaint under the law of the police, and in this context there is also the possibility to appeal to police actions specifically referred to as measures against the use of coercive instruments. We do know that since February 27, 2020, the Ombudsman's Office has been handling the police complaint body's affairs. The Committee welcomed the fact that the Commissioner had visited 14 border crossing points for international transit and personnel traffic and the implementation of measures to prevent the spread of the epidemic and border protection in the framework of a personal visit during the reference year. The Committee expressly welcomed the significant field work carried out by the Ombudsman's Office, not only with the six regional offices where there is a personal presence, but also with regard to such matters. In the framework of the Commissioner's legal protection mission, at the beginning of 2021, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county carried out a school inspector's audit, which led to the conclusion that the school communities accepted the presence of the school guardian after a longer or shorter period of time, recognised its positive elements and highlighted the conflict prevention nature of the institution in particular. It's part of the fieldwork. It is to be recognised that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, during the pandemic, is seeking to be informed, not only in the country affected by the epidemic, but also in keeping with the protection measures, of the measures taken to ensure compliance with fundamental rights. In the context of its legislative activities, the Commissioner received a total of 33 draft legislative acts in 2021, which is the same as in 2020 because of the legislative practices of the special legal order which was put in place during the emergency period. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee thanked the Commissioner, his deputy and colleagues for their efforts in the epidemic situation, for their work on the ground, for their role in legislation and for their support. The report before us meets the requirements of the law, which is why I ask the Honourable Parliament to support its adoption. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-10-05-4	Dear Parliament, The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to present a position during the debate. It is now up to the voice of the minority advocates invited by the committee representing nationalities, in a total time frame of 15 minutes. First I give the floor to the Slovenian ethnic advocate Erika Kissné Köles, who describes the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. Here you go.
u2022-10-05-5	[[???Spoštovana gospa Predsednica! Spoštovani gospod varuh človeških pravic, spoštovana gospa varuhinja narodnostnih pravic! Hvala za besedo, gospa Predsednica!???]] Madam President, Dear House, Mr Ombudsperson, Madam Vice-Ombudsperson, Thank you for the floor. [[???V veliko čast mi je, da na plenarni seji državnega zbora Madžarske smem spregovoriti o poročilu varuha za varovanje človeških pravic na Madžarskem ter poročila varuhinje narodnostnih pravic odgovorne za narodnostne pravice na Madžarskem.???]] It is an honor for me to speak at the plenary session of the Hungarian Parliament in relation to the report by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and the Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of the Rights of Nationalities in Hungary on his activities in 2021. At the meeting of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities on 26 September 2022 the National Assembly discussed the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates, B/16. A report and a resolution have been drawn up on it. The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and the Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of the Rights of Nationalities, as of the establishment of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, has maintained a particularly good relationship with the representatives, advocates and presidents of the 13 indigenous nationalities, which I also thank them with respect. In Hungary, the National Rights Act ensures the exercise of the individual and collective rights of nationalities. However, the existence of legislation is not sufficient in many cases to fully enforce it; infringements arise in the case of individuals or groups belonging to each nationality because of a lack of knowledge or misinterpretation of the law, sometimes because of conscious violations. These are explored, by the Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of the Rights of Nationalities in Hungary and by his staff under his direction, by his thorough, detailed and persistent work, by the exploratory work on specific cases, and by his ombudsman's reports, in many cases, help to improve enforcement in the area of nationality life, in addition to redress procedures, in several cases by proposing to the legislator to amend the legislative background in certain areas. Dr. Szalayné Dr. Erzsébet Sándor, vice-president and colleagues, using the collection of digital tools, have also tried during the pandemic to explore the contradictions in the lives of ethnic communities, to organize their investigation results, thus helping the current situation of nationalities. Their work has made a significant contribution to the legal certainty of individuals and ethnic communities belonging to nationalities. Despite the existence of the Fundamental Law and good legislation and the existence of a national rights protection system, the maladministration sometimes points to the fact that a well-made legal background can be passed, which, in addition to the loss of rights, can cause a break in the intellectual and emotional lives of people belonging to ethnic communities. Through the work of the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and the Deputy Ombudsman for Nationality, issues of controversy and abuse have been resolved in the past; ombudsman's inquiries and reports, as appropriate, have also led to legislative amendments restricting the conduct of the infringement and facilitating enforcement. The 2021 report is an extremely accurate and useful document, as experienced in previous years. The administration has not stopped despite the pandemic. The report can be seen by students as a significant increase in the handling of paper or electronic documents during 2021, which triggered the presence of the Office on the spot. A large percentage of the cases received by the Office concern Roma citizens and their communities. However, in 2021, issues related to education, children's rights, higher education in relation to the requirement of equal treatment in all ethnic communities have increased significantly, but there is also a submission on the grounds of behaviour which violates the right of national minorities to vote and to agree. [[9.50]] In 2021, the use of Community names, the violation of the rights conferred by the law on the operation of national minority authorities, or the case of hate speech, hatred-enhancing disputes and socially disadvantaged persons were also raised. More detailed information will be provided by the Ruthenian minority advocate who spoke after me. As of 1 January 2021, the Equal Treatment Authority will operate as an agency of the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights under the name of the Directorate-General for Equal Treatment. The Committee of Hungarian Nationalities of Parliament supported this transformation; its advantage was proven in 2021. The report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2021 is also proposed on behalf of our committee, due to its thoroughness and professional values. Thank you for your attention. Hvala za vašo vljudno posornost. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2022-10-05-6	I now give the floor to the ethnic advocate Giricz Vera Ruthenian, who describes the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. Here, you have the floor in the remaining time frame.
u2022-10-05-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Честованый пан Предс Честован... депутаты! Честованый пан и пан... Обудсман! Уд имени русинськуй сполности Мадярщины из честован Madam President, Dear House, Dear Commissioner and Deputy Commissioner, On behalf of the domestic Ruthenian minority community, I welcome you with respect. One of the basic tasks of the Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of National Rights is to regularly inform the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the institutions concerned, the public and the ethnic communities living in Hungary, which account for almost 10 percent of society, about their experience in the enforcement of the rights of nationalities, about the situation, values and direction of development of the domestic institutional system. Following the spirit of the age, the Deputy Commissioner uses two online surfaces for the widest and continuous access to professional materials. The website contains a comprehensive knowledge base showing the area of nationality law and the professional documents of the Deputy Commissioner, while Facebook shows the main features of daily events, communications and messages, as well as recent professional documents. The Info-sheets are short educational and professional information digital publications, from which the reader can learn about the structure, permanent regulatory elements and guarantee institutions of the national minority legal protection system in a comprehensive and understandable way. Four of these numbers came out this year. The quarterly digital newsletter provides information on the current activity carried out during that period, in particular on domestic and international professional events, trends in the course of the case and the results of the completed comprehensive investigations. The article entitled case law mosaic presents specific anonymized complaints and life situations. Compared to the 2020 figures, the increase in cases of ethnicity was 11 per cent in 2021. As in recent years, the number of cases involving citizens of Roma nationality, representing almost half of the total turnover in 2021, was highest: 193. The high number of cases, the content of the cases, indicated that the complex difficulties of Roma residents, which have already existed, have been exacerbated by the pandemic. The number of German submissions was outstandingly high, 86, which, in addition to the significant public activity of the community, affected the care of his relatives who were taken to the robot Malenkaj. The number of cases of cross-border nationality maladministration affecting more than one and all ethnic communities, which were mainly raised in relation to measures relating to this epidemiological situation, education, cultural rights, the operation and financing of national authorities, and legal opinions, shows an increase in the number of 14 and 59 submissions received. The report points out that in 2021 a submission was received from all counties of Hungary: Békés county was decorated with cases related to the previously mentioned Málenkaj robot. Budapest also maintained its position as a priority, which can be explained by the location of the headquarters of the ministries, central authorities and national authorities, but on the other hand it indicates problems related to accessibility: the office did not have regional or county offices in 2021. The subjects of the submissions and their proportions were similar to the previous year, and they continue to show the polar divide between the classical cases of ethnicity and Roma equality and equal treatment, which have been mentioned several times above, which has also defined the methodology for the processing of complaints. We would like to point out here that issues concerning the functioning of local and national minority self-governments have been of crucial importance for the enforcement of national minority rights. The crisis announced in the context of the World Partnership and then extended was a major obstacle to the functioning of the national authorities, bringing up a number of new challenges, setting up their presidents and members of their representative bodies. Following the introduction of the emergency, the Deputy Commissioner sought to clarify the legal requirements governing national authorities. In 2021, five opinions in principle and four joint reports were issued in the area of nationality law; in seven cases, the deputy commissioner issued a letter of closure containing a proposal for application. In 2021, the intensive involvement in the renewed international professional dialogue was particularly important, since Hungary was the President of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers from 21 May to 17 November. During the six months, an analysis, promotion of the effective protection of national minorities was a priority, and the Deputy Commissioner was a key partner at all related events and shared his ideas and practical proposals. In 2021, the Deputy Commissioner received a special request from the UN Special Envoy on Minority Issues: he was a leading professional moderator at the thematic meeting of the European Regional Forum preparing the UN Human Rights Council's Annual Minority Forum and the report on the situation of the Special Envoy for Global Minority Rights. On the basis of the report and the positive experience of last year, the Committee has assessed the cooperation of the Deputy Commissioner's Office and the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities as meaningful and effective, and continues to trust in the continuation of joint, effective work. On the basis of the above, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities supports the adoption of the report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2021 at the plenary session. Дякуву за призур! Thank you for listening. [[Applause for the ruling parties, sporadic applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2022-10-05-8	Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Lajos Me-száros, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go. [[10.00]]
u2022-10-05-9	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Commissioner, Madam and Mr Vice-President, Ladies and gentlemen, As the lead speaker for the Fidesz Group, I would also like to add a few sentences to what my fellow Member has said and to what the ethnic advocates have said. At its meeting on 6 July 2022, the Committee on Justice of the Parliament discussed in great depth and detail the 2021 report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates, which the Committee considered appropriate for adoption. Dear Parliament, The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights paid constant attention to the priority areas of investigation in accordance with the relevant provisions and spirit of the law. There were three such areas: one concerning the protection of the rights of the most vulnerable groups of children, the other concerning matters concerning the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities and children, and one on the rights of nationalities belonging to the Commissioner and two of his deputies living in Hungary, and the protection of future generations and the right to a healthy environment. The Deputy Ombudsman for the Protection of the Rights of Nationalities in Hungary has dealt with 391 cases. The pandemic and the resulting emergency continued to be inevitable in the world in 2021, making it more difficult for public authorities, institutions and public services, as well as the daily living conditions and employment situation of citizens. However, the gradual revival of economic and social life was also the possibility of a fresh start for the majority of ethnic public life and for the majority of ethnic communities. The economic problems caused by the pandemic have affected the disadvantaged population more severely. Their economic and social exclusion has also narrowed their possibilities for a fresh start. The above processes affected the work of the Deputy Commissioner for Nationality, posed a major challenge and influenced the number and type of submissions. In 2021, the number of cases involving nationality increased by 11 percent compared to 2020 figures. This was only a return to the trend in the course of the years preceding the pandemic, which, however, can be regarded as an important indicator of the start-up process. In classic cases of nationality law, the majority of complainants of almost exclusively Roma origin have made submissions to the Deputy Commissioner for Nationality, which are more relevant in principle, rather than to pleadings against individual situations. Dear fellow Members, The essence of the mandate of the spokesperson for future generations is the oversight of the fundamental legislative framework for future generations, in which, in addition to the above, in particular, the following three constitutional articles form the basis of their responsibilities. According to Article P of the Fundamental Law, natural resources, biodiversity and cultural values are the common heritage of the nation, the protection, maintenance and preservation of which for future generations is the duty of the state and everyone. The Joint Communication of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and the Spokesman on World Environment Day 2021 highlighted the beginning of the UN Ecosystem Recovery Decade. Reflecting international expectations, the European Parliament adopted the EU's 2030 Biodiversity Strategy in 2021, one of the main objectives of which is to restore the EU's ecosystems by 2050, to be resilient and adequately protected. On the issue of biodiversity, a number of issues were highlighted by the advocate in 2021. One of these was the event "Protection of pollinators and local green spaces" during which the spokesperson drew the attention of local authorities to the role of urban green spaces in protecting pollinators and, more broadly, to the preservation of biodiversity as a whole. In order to reduce the environmental impacts of chemicals, including their adverse effects on wildlife, in 2021, the advocate also addressed the current practice of mosquito control, which included a workshop. The responsibility for future generations arising from the Fundamental Law requires the legislator to assess and consider the expected impact of its actions on the basis of scientific knowledge, in accordance with the principles of caution and prevention. The State shall not ignore any risks due to the principle of precaution of constitutional importance and the obligation laid down in Article P. It is to be welcomed that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights informed the Justice Committee that the Office opened six regional offices in 2022 in order to improve accessibility and visibility, thus being personally available in six rural cities since April 2022. The customer services have been extended so far, and six of the Commissioner's colleagues in six large rural cities are now personally receiving complaints and providing legal assistance to those who come to them. Dear Parliament, On the basis of what has been said, it can be concluded that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates carry out their duties under the Fundamental Law and the Fundamental Rights Act at a high professional level, in a committed manner to the protection of fundamental rights. In view of what has been said, I would ask the honourable Members to adopt the 2021 report of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. The Fidesz Group supports its adoption. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-10-05-10	It is now up to the lead speaker of the DK Group, Mr László Sebian-Petrovsk. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2022-10-05-11	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Allow me, however, to bring up what I have already heard in several accounts as a kind of zero point, not closely linked to the subject. In particular, I am convinced that we will be able to carry out our task as Parliament in an accelerated manner, that if a report, a report on a period, arrives here and we will discuss it as closely as it relates to the period it covers. And that is because, for a moment in a well-functioning democracy, let us pretend that this is a country that is the office, authority, person, it doesn't matter who, in this sense, who makes the report, reports, and listens to our speeches, because the comments, criticisms, suggestions are well integrated into its operation, and thus it will be better to operate that office. We are now evaluating 2021 and talking about its accounts, while we are in the last quarter of 2022. So even if Mr Ombudsperson did his best, he wouldn't be able to include our comments in the operation of the 22nd year, at the most, in next year, when I felt that this report could have taken place much earlier. To say just one thing, we discussed this at the Justice Committee in the summer, we discussed it in the beginning of summer, so it has been three months since it came from the first floor to the main room. But to talk about the specifics: Mr Ombudsperson will not be surprised, as I discussed these issues at the committee meeting in relation to the 2021 report, as I am about to do now, complementing what has happened since then, and some answers there, I have received comments on my points, but I would be dissatisfied with them, so I should address them again. One of the questions is why the Ombudsman or the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, which I think is so important, is that there should be a report on this in itself. One third of a column deals with this in this 200 - page beautiful publication. [[10.10]] In fact, the story begins a year earlier, the International Organisation of Ombudsmen, as we call it, indicated that the downgrading of the Hungarian Ombudsmen's Office and the Hungarian Ombudsman himself could be expected, simplifying it from category A to category B, but it was then a call for attention, a kind of opportunity to move forward or try to prevent this process. This failed, so the downgrading took place in May this year. In this regard, the Ombudsman said in the Committee on Justice that, since this was the case this year, it will be included in the next report, but the criticism, the start of the process and even the larger part of it took place in 2021, thus earlier. The remark made by this sub-committee on accreditation concerns the Ombudsman's functioning in principle. What was that comment about? Among the criticisms was that when the Courts adopted legislative proposals concerning independence, civil society organisations, freedom of the press, this House adopted government proposals, the Ombudsman did not make his voice heard, either publicly or publicly. So he did not use any of the tools that we have heard here in the report that he has a number of means, he did not use them, he did not speak up during the trial of these laws, nor did he turn to the Constitutional Court in these matters, nor in any other way. When some social groups were at the centre of interest on certain human rights issues, and I was very subtle at the time, because I could have said that it was social groups in the middle of the government hack campaign, there was no action by the ombudsman's office. Of course, this does not affect the questions when citizens turn to you, but I will tell you about it separately. So when there were general social questions about such vulnerable groups, the Ombudsman either did not deal with it or did not deal with it sufficiently, said the Accreditation Sub-Committee, not me. On politically more sensitive issues, he clearly does not turn to the Constitutional Court or the bodies to which he could put it. This report also describes the fact that the Ombudsman's selection was not transparent enough to be precise: his independence from the government is not well-founded, which is a serious criticism, although it is very well formulated. By the way, this downgrading means that the Hungarian Ombudsman does not have the right to vote in this international organisation, in the World Federation, he cannot hold office, he can only be an observer at the meetings, he cannot participate in the work of the Human Rights Council. This is a serious and serious problem that we have come here after all these years, but this report does not address this. In the Commission's work, the Ombudsman said that he had made a strange remark, which was actually about strange signals coming from the international level to him, as if these international organisations expected independence from him while telling him what he should do, and thus seeing a conflict between independence and these things. I would like to ask what these were, in particular, which you referred to at the Committee on Justice's meeting, because again this is not clear from the report, it was a whole new piece of information that you shared with the Committee. He was involved in the report, both orally and in writing, in the integration of the Equal Treatment Authority into the Ombudsman's Office. You know my position, I'm quite certain that this was for political reasons, and there was no technical basis behind it. It was the last independent office to which citizens could turn in cases in which the government caused the human rights violation in which the citizen's life became worse and therefore had to turn to someone. In fact, the Ombudsman defends this measure in both the ombudsman's report and the oral one. He does not merely speak of the law's provision, and therefore they will carry out this task, but will protect it. Even at the committee's meeting, we could hear such a theory of law from him that, in fact, the cases had come to an office with a higher public-law status, it could only be better, and it could only be more beautiful. You can't find a civil society or citizen who's been in any contact with your office for the last year on such matters, who would report satisfaction. There's a series of indications that you're on equal treatment authority issues... which this authority would have handled or handled before, because a lot of cases started then, these cases are under sleep, so to speak. They are not dealt with by the authority, not least not at all, they are not dealt with at all, there is no feedback from civil society organisations, there is no feedback from citizens. In all, the feedback is that we have accepted your case with such and such a number of case files, but there is no substantial improvement in these cases. I can also say that no position on these issues has been expressed by the ombudsman's office here, in Parliament or in public, even though there was an opportunity to think about the homophobic law or the 33rd. I'm talking about a case that's been known to be under the name of Art. In the relevant period, the Ombudsman's Office published only one report after the entry into force of trans-European rights, but it also practically repeated the judgment of the Constitutional Court. I would like to ask you what I did not get a clear answer to at committee stage, either, that finally, the Directorate-General resulting from the integration of the Equal Treatment Authority has already been the head of, or the leaders of, the Director-General or his deputies. Because your website is extremely detailed for all other departments, everyone's CV, contact details, photos and names are available, this is the part with five lines and virtually no specifics. Who's doing this job in the office today, who's running it? That's not gonna come out. This is where the rapporteur network is mentioned, which I have indeed brought up in the Commission debate. You did not deny the termination of the rapporteur network, so that the lawyers you worked with in the previous years, the employees of the Equal Treatment Authority, have terminated the contract, these cases are over, and you say, Mr Ombudsperson, that, but, well, six regional offices are open. However, the fact that a field office is open one day or two days in four hours, eight hours, and there is a customer reception there is not exactly the same as when a lawyer is contacted by the complainant and involved in a case and is involved in those matters. The third subject I would like to point out, which I have already mentioned, but now let us talk about it in particular, is how the Office communicates with the complainants, with civil society organisations turning to you, and with lawyers acting on behalf of complainants. For years, a significant signal has been coming from this world that it does not work systematically, that it has practically stopped, that the dialogues that previously described the ombudsman's office and these complainant circles have stopped. I'm ashamed to see a,, Answered by Ákos Kozma? A website, called "Civil Organisations," where there are now dozens of cases with a specific file number, date, description, in which the ombudsman's office, or you, Mr Ombudsperson, has refused to answer so far, nothing has happened in these cases. Let's be fair: some of these cases started under your office predecessors, some of which are twelve years old, but most of them are still on your time, and the fact that the previous cases didn't happen, obviously we can't say that my predecessor may not have finished them. Why does this work, why do we need such a website, such a situation, why are citizens being informed? The last question is that I would like to highlight specifically the matters concerning the LGBTQ community, and the fact that the handling of these matters is completely forgotten within the Ombudsman's office at present. [[10.20]] There is only one line of this issue in the whole report, while, again, in 2021, there were quite a few cases in this country, and I am now trying to put a value-free phrase that aimed at this social group, a public interest, a public figure. However, there is no line in this two-hundred-page report of the atrocities, violations and root causes of the LGBTQ community, nor of what you may have made or made a complaint, or of what kind of investigation or what happened in such cases, nor of what your office has done, if not to complain, but to perceive such cases. One word as a hundred: overall, the report that we see here, and the one year behind the report, is based on the situation that we can say that the Ombudsman's office does not properly deal with certain issues, does not properly deal with them, and on the other hand, we must state our suspicion that it will remain remarkably silent in matters that are favourable to the government or that are on the government's agenda and that it will not do anything noticeably, and if it does have to start certain investigations, it will drag them out and delay their closure in time. Therefore, with the report on the activity, I cannot be satisfied, nor was I in the Committee on Justice, nor can I be here, and therefore we cannot support this on our part. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-10-05-12	Dear Parliament, It is now time for the lead speaker of the KDNP Group, Mrs Hajnalka Juhász. I give you the floor, please.
u2022-10-05-13	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner, Commissioner, The report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2021 presents to the Ombudsman and his alternates in a comprehensive way the activities of the year 2021 and presents the Ombudsman's Office's inquiries, reports on the results and future challenges. The national and international fight against the corona virus epidemic, which was also faced by the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, was also marked by the year 2021. Since the spring of 2020, we have faced extraordinary challenges both at national and international level. However, without the vaccination programme launched last year, the measures related to the government's disease management and maintenance of the country's functioning, which could address the two challenges in a balanced way, the victimisation of health care and the patience and support of society as a whole, we could not have overcome the pandemic. I would like to thank all the staff and managers of the ombudsman's office for the fact that last year, defying the extraordinary circumstances created by the pandemic, they were able to ensure the functioning of the national human rights institution, they were able to fulfil their vocation and they were guarding civil liberties. Dear Parliament, Article I of our basic law states with normative edge that respect for and protection of fundamental rights is a primary obligation of the State. The Constitutional Court pointed out, in its decision of 1991 at the beginning of the regime change, that the State's obligation to respect and protect fundamental rights in relation to subjective fundamental rights is not limited to refraining from violating them, but also to ensuring the conditions necessary for their enforcement. The compliance with these requirements justified the fact that, as of January 2021, the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, located at the heart of the national ombudsman institution system, has undergone significant organisational changes. In the framework of the institutional reform, the integration of the Equal Treatment Authority into the Office has led to the portfolio of Commissioner and his staff, from the beginning of last year, of tasks related to the fulfilment of the requirements of equal opportunities and equal treatment. The powers of anti-discrimination authorities have been strengthened and a legal institution with more effective enforcement has been created at the same time. The change in the role of the Independent Police Complaints Board was also the forerunner of this organizational transformation, and since February 2020, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights took over the tasks of the Independent Police Panel. Dear House, In 2021, the complainants contacted the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights with 7354 submissions. This figure was 7190 in 2020 and 5693 in 2019, i.e. the number of citizens and institutions turning to the Ombudsman has shown an increasing trend in recent years. We consider the increasing number of submissions to be a joyful phenomenon, as this shows that on the one hand, citizens' awareness of constitutional rights is increasing, the visibility and position of the Office in the national legal protection structures is strengthened, and on the other hand, complainants and citizens seeking legal rights turn with confidence to the national human rights protection institution. Dear Parliament, On the basis of the statistical data of the report, it can be concluded that complaints were received by the Ombudsman on a variety of subjects during 2021. The largest proportion of nearly 6,000 cases completed, with a large majority of 15 percent, were submitted in connection with legal opinion and constitutional law criticism. This information suggests that the often unfounded claim that citizens are not interested in the political and social processes affecting them does not hold up. The second most frequent group of cases examined by the Ombudsman was cases relating to criminal proceedings, the execution of sentences and the various police procedures. In 2021, complaints on social, labour, education and health were the third largest group of cases. We would like to thank the Commissioner, Dr. Ákos Kozma, for his work as a national and international advocate. Dear House, The volume of submissions submitted to the Deputy Commissioner for Nationality in 2021 shows an increase of 11 percent compared to 2020 but also changes in their structure. Instead of individual maladministration, priority legal submissions were increasingly received to investigate complaints of general, multi-national or all nationalities. In view of the ethnic distribution of the requests, it can be concluded that they were submitted in the highest proportion by the Roma community and the second most of the submissions by members of the German nationality. From a thematic point of view, issues related to education, education, nationality, cultural and Roma equal opportunities and equal treatment, social, housing, child protection and public employment have emerged. I would also like to thank Mr Imre Ritter, a German Member of the National Assembly, as well as the ethnic advocates for helping the Deputy Commissioner, and thank you very much for the work of Deputy Commissioner Szalayné Dr. Sándor Erzsébet. I would like to thank you in particular for the fact that the Council of Europe's Framework Convention on the Protection of Minorities also carries out its advisory tasks, which our country can be proud of. Dear House, One of the major innovations of our Fundamental Law, which came into force ten years ago, was that it granted constitutional protection to our natural resources, in particular agricultural land, forests, water resources and biodiversity, dedicated to them by means of a separate Article P. The new basic legislation also stated that the protection of these natural resources and the preservation of future generations are the duty of the state and everyone. We have witnessed a major breakthrough in international environmental law. In its decision of 5 October 2021, the United Nations Human Rights Council recognised the right to a clean, safe, healthy and sustainable environment as human rights and has incorporated that right into the international human rights catalogue. The Decision called on Member States to build the appropriate institutions to enforce this right, to apply best practices, to adopt relevant strategies and to respect human rights in general. In 2021, the Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of the Interests of Future Generations handled a large number of half a thousand cases and published statements of principle and awareness-raising. In his work, he paid particular attention to the protection of nature, the built environment and heritage, the landscape and the waters, but he brought into his examination the theme of the circular economy, as well as the issues of climate and energy policy, which are of particular importance at present. In the decades of the fight against global warming and climate change, it is self-evident that natural and environmental issues are a matter for all of us. This is why the Aarhus Convention on access to information and public participation in decision-making in environmental matters, which was registered by the Parliament at the time of the first Orbán government in November 2001. [[10.30]] The Vice-President's institution responsible for protecting the interests of future generations is unique even at international level, so thank you, too, for the work of Deputy Commissioner Gyula Bándi, for which I wish you further success and good health. Dear Parliament, On this basis, KDNP supports the report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2021 and the proposal for a decision to adopt the report. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-10-05-14	It is now time for Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2022-10-05-15	Thank you very much. Dear House, Firstly, the MSZP agrees with the legitimate demands of teachers and teachers' unions. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Now, let's start with the report. Unfortunately, we have an easy job to do when we have to evaluate the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights: in the second half of 2021, the Hungarian Ombudsman was proposed to be downgraded by his foreign colleagues, and in May 2022 he was downgraded. Hungary now has a category B ombudsman. In practice, this means that the Hungarian Ombudsman does not have the right to vote or to hold a post in the World Federation, to participate only as an observer in the meetings and to participate actively in the work of the UN Human Rights Council. The reason for the downgrading is that many fundamental rights issues are not dealt with in substance by the Hungarian Commissioner. This in itself reveals the low quality of the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights in our country, as it is a devastating certificate, issued by his foreign colleagues and experts. In comparison to this, the Ombudsman did not mention in his 2021 report what led to this downgrading, nor did he even listen to the steps he had taken to improve the professional judgement of his work. We don't see the points and the action plan to improve this downgrade. I believe that the Commissioner must answer this orally, otherwise his report is unappreciable. The oral explanation is also necessary because the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights belongs to the Equal Treatment Authority, but my colleague László Sebian-Petrovszki has already spoken about this. Since only 16 pages of the 200 - page report covers equal treatment, and 14 pages contain only a description of the different legal cases, we do not get any picture of the fact that the merger of the authority has made action against discrimination more effective. The figures show that no, because neither the complaints received nor the magnitude of the decisions establishing the infringement have changed compared to recent years, so it is difficult to believe that in 2021 a new chapter would have started in the Office's work. Many people who are discriminated against do not have access to justice because the ombudsman's authority operates in complete isolation. The county offices of the Authority, which have so far helped victims of discrimination, have ceased to exist, and the Equal Method Advisory Board, which has not only followed the application of the law but also made professional proposals. The publicity of the authority's activities has now become almost invisible. The report does not show what the ombudsman's office is and how the ombudsman's office works with civil society organisations, nor does it reveal the role these organisations play in initiating proceedings and representing victims. However, so much of the limited data can be found that in the detection of infringements and the initiation of proceedings, the Office examined disability-based discrimination most and was less proactive in the area of discrimination in the area of nationality, especially Roma. Although the report stresses the role played by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights in the opinion of the legislation and drafts, it does not mention at all what opinion, it has proposed to protect the homeless, families with many children, women or single couples, or to prevent segregation in schools; although he has now spoken about this, namely, school segregation. Last but not least, we did not receive a reply from the report as to whether there was already a responsible, independent head of the authority, a separate budget of the Management Board, how many requests the Ombudsman had for authority, the possibility for applicants for inquiry to choose between an ombudsman's inquiry without a substantive decision and an official inquiry, on the basis of which reasons a decision had been taken to reject many requests. Unappreciated by the rest of the report, the Parliament cannot give a complete picture of the effectiveness of the action against discrimination from this ombudsman's report. On the basis of this report, we can only conclude that the Equal Treatment Authority is dependent on the periphery of the Ombudsman's office's activities, but this was also mentioned by László Sebian-Petrovsk. Turning to the report, we can conclude that there are a number of problems in the country that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights does not really deal with. I would like to highlight the issue of protecting children's rights. Our downgraded ombudsman does not have a word about children's rights in the political campaign, although in 2019 the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his deputies asked the parliamentary parties, and I quote: children should not be the sets and tools of party politics. On this basis, the MSZP has achieved a number of legal successes when it has been classified as election fraud cases where representatives and mayors used children as political sets. Among other things, Zsolt Borkai, former mayor of Fidesz Győr, was convicted of such an infringement. After that, the Fidesz pro-government majority changed the electoral procedure law so that in-house representatives were free to use children as political sets, even in schools or kindergartens. According to the MSZP, this violates the fundamental human rights and human dignity of children. Moreover, this goes against the previous position of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. In comparison, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights will do nothing to deal with this situation. Just as he has remained inactive in relation to obstetric care, even though we know that many hospitals have threatened on-call obstetric care. Mothers often have to go 100 to 200 kilometers to give birth. This is a disadvantage that clearly contradicts all fundamental rights linked to health and equal health care. Yet, mothers forced to travel long and dangerous will also pay for their contributions. However, the Ombudsman left these questions without a meaningful reply and hid behind formal objections as to why he had not conducted an investigation. We can therefore conclude that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights did not provide any protection to mothers either. And to remain with the children, the Ombudsman is also silent about the health disadvantages of children who have already been born. The Commissioner has nothing to say about the fact that in 2020 101 021 children did not have access to home care on the spot. In the ombudsman's report, there is no letter indicating that since 2016, the number of vacant home-patient districts has doubled. Ladies and gentlemen, What I'm about to say is obviously not just numbers. Recently, we were approached by two children with mental illness who were forced to communicate with their abusive mother. As a result, children's mental health has deteriorated significantly and should be treated with medication. They're being abused by classmates. Then they were removed from their safe home by causing them another trauma. In the home where they are temporarily placed, there are no mental health care professionals, so these seriously traumatized, sick children cannot get the help they need even if they have seizures due to mental illness. I have told you all of this here to understand the serious problems that can be caused if the state in Hungary is unable to guarantee the protection of the fundamental rights of people. The report before us clearly shows that the world has given a well-founded classification of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights in category B. In view of the above, the accounts of the Ombudsman of the downgraded system will not be voted by the MSZP. Thank you for listening. [[Laszlo Sebian-Petrovski applauds.]]
u2022-10-05-16	It is now time for the lead speaker of the Momentum Group, Mr Lajos Löcsei. I give you the floor, please. [[10.40]]
u2022-10-05-17	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr Ombudsperson, I would like to take a brief and concise opinion from your rapporteur, because, if I remember correctly, in the first week of June, I asked you, as the public's lawyer, about downgrading from category A to B, about what you intend to do in order to make it more than just a set to maintain the appearance of the rule of law. I also said and stress that the Ombudsman and the institution of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights in Hungary's legal system is a treasure that we should be very careful about. The Commissioner of Fundamental Rights is the lawyer of the people to whom people on the edge of society can feel free to turn. Commissioner felt that this classification, downgrading, was not relevant, as several European countries were included in this category; and I feel that you have been benched internationally, and that you are not allowed by the greats to enter the field, and, unfortunately, you have received a red card for a reason. As long as you do not manifest yourself in politically sensitive matters and turn to the Constitutional Court when teachers are undermining their right to strike, you are not doing your job properly and your result is here. Over the days, several teachers were dismissed because they were not allowed to be humiliated by the system. Do you feel responsible, Mr Ombudsperson, for being silent when you were supposed to be the loudest in this matter? Until you turn to the Constitutional Court and take a stand when the largest minority of Hungary is compared to a biological weapon by an extreme right-wing party, you are not doing your job properly. It was mute when it did not have the so-called lex Gyöngyöspata law reviewed its compliance with the Basic Law with the Constitutional Court; it did not think that clarity should be called into account in the text of the anti-pedophile law hijacked as homophobic. I mentioned very important social issues that affect your judgement and your institution, and your work is characterised by very serious shortcomings and political bias. After that, I will not ask you anything, I will not give you any further opinion, and I will not accept your report, but I will ask you with the utmost respect to stop insulting the lawyer of the people, the Hungarian Ombudsman, and to resign from his post. [[Rumble and clear from the pro-government benches. A statement from the Fidesz: It's a good thing you came in.]]
u2022-10-05-18	The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, Róbert Hondas. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2022-10-05-19	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Parliament, Dear Commissioner, The report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his deputies on Jobbik and, with this, I think I will not surprise him very much. As a Christian-Conservative Party, we appreciate it [[There's a lot of information from the pro-government benches.]] that last year, the Commissioner and his office paid particular attention to the complaints of the vulnerable, children, people with disabilities, the elderly and patients. There have been many criticisms from the previous speakers, and I would like to reflect on them more and more. Obviously, it is not my job, but it will be the Commissioner's, but I would also like to point out that if we were not discussing an annual report in the last quarter of the following year, I think that there are a number of legitimate criticisms, which may well be heard here, in addition to the fact that they could also be included in, in medicine, so I would definitely like to do so. In all likelihood, Commissioner, he is bound by law to come before Parliament at this time, but at the same time it would be important if there really was good intentions for everyone to be corrected for the following year, not at the end of the following year. The ability of the Office to listen to social needs is demonstrated by the comprehensive examination of the new rules of procedure and the practical application of the school start in response to parental complaints. The constitutional and fundamental rights findings contained in the report were subsequently partially reflected in the Constitutional Court's decision on the subject. As a result, the rules of procedure for determining maturity in schools have been changed. In connection with the case, Jobbik also spoke, and, standing on the side of children and parents, we also indicated that the owners of power could not cross a line that they had crossed, so it would have to be corrected. The report also shows that in 2021, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights paid particular attention to a comprehensive on-the-spot investigation of the operational conditions of residential institutions, such as children's homes, nursing homes and institutions for disabled persons, following complaints and signals or even acting ex officio. During the reference year, the largest of the on-the-spot checks of children's homes was the report on the operation of the EMMI Children's Home in Kalocsa. In terms of professional numbers of children's homes, the proportion of skilled workers and the reduction in turnover, progress was made compared to the previous study. On the other hand, as regards the material conditions of the institution, the functioning of the membership school and other issues, the Commissioner made recommendations to remedy serious, concrete and systemic problems. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the ball is bouncing in your court. The social system crunched and crunched last year. But what's coming now, seeing the trends, is a disaster. It cannot be emphasized enough: if there were and there are hundreds of billion forints of public money for the loss of Vodafone's acquisition, then it is unacceptable for us here in Jobbik's faction not to have money to strengthen supply systems. It is wrong to think that if the report on the 21st year includes systemic problems, a significant part of which could be dealt with in substance with additional budgetary resources, then what will be the case with the report on the 22nd year, what will be read in the report on the 23rd year. But in order not only to take my speech in this direction, I must mention that Article XXI As a centuries-old party, green thinking and sustainability are of cardinal importance to us. It is a great pleasure for us that the Commissioner and his colleagues have also given priority to this area. We can fully identify with the lines in the report where we read that in our consumer society, the life cycle of purchased products is getting shorter and supply chains are getting longer. The objective of the circular economy, as opposed to the current linear economic model, is to keep the products and their components and their raw materials in the circulation of the economy for as long as possible and in the highest quality possible. The transformation of our current linear economic system is directly related to Articles P and XX and XXI of the Fundamental Law respectively. articles, since it affects the living conditions of present and future generations. That is why the advocate follows this area and launched a series of workshops on the circular economy. On our part, Commissioner, we can fully support his efforts, as protecting our natural environment and protecting all our countries of biodiversity are a fundamental objective. They may also inform the pro-government oligarchs who call themselves nationalists, but who surround the Balaton, who hold half a Tihany mountain. In 2021, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights initiated an amendment to a law or an overview of the legal environment in general in 27 cases. However, with regard to legislative proposals maintained by Commissioner and Deputy Commissioners, I must again point to government responsibility. A more livable, fairer, more solidarityable Hungary, living in peace with itself, may have many of these proposals. [[10.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, Maybe they don't think it's a waste of time if I spend a little time on a territory we think is more important. The investigations of our most vulnerable fellow humans, people with disabilities, also raise serious questions. As it is said, the ombudsman's office has been dealing with the anomaly of large numbers of social institutions for many years. The CRPD specifically protects the principles of self-life and autonomy, which are inherently incompatible with the functioning of large numbers of homes. In line with this, from a fundamental point of view, the focus of solutions is on the replacement of social institutional spaces, ejection and implementation. In the meantime, however, institutions must operate, while the quality of supply remains very variable. The institutions are facing a lot of acute problems, and the coronal virus epidemic has made the situation even more difficult. During the reporting period, the Commissioner issued several reports focusing on the functioning of a disability institution or the system itself. I respectfully ask the government's current authorities and the ruling party's current authorities what is the situation with the disemboweling process as it stands. In a very professional and understandable way, what are the chances that these injured fellow citizens will finally be able to move to homes providing a truly humane housing environment? How are we on this issue? What do you expect? Will it be a source, for example, to overcome a burning shortage of professionals? We also see terrible gloomy clouds gathering in this regard. Let me refer here to the written question tabled by my fellow Member, Mr Ander Balázs, which wanted to convey to the authorities the woes of the Somogy County Association of those who were in danger of dying; I do not know if you have heard them. In any case, it is a fact that the Somogy County Association of people with reduced mobility takes care of 1,600 of our disabled fellow citizens, with public tasks, trying to make their daily lives easier, sometimes from birth to death. You promised to protect the reduction of the overhead, but the truth is that the runaway electricity and gas prices, as well as the fast-moving inflation, are making the future impossible for them. Dr. Lajos Hegedüs, president of the Association, said: "We'll be out of here by the end of the year, and then there's no more. On average, the Hungarian State provides 70 percent of the normative support on average, but only in terms of previous energy prices, while we perform only public tasks. If there is no effective public intervention, I will have to ask again what terrible case descriptions we will encounter next year and thereafter in such commissioner's, ombudsman's report and in the reports from the heads of the institutions. We can ask similar torture questions regarding the protection of the rights of the elderly. Although I have now set an example in Somogy County, all the social institutions in every county have similar problems and a similar lack of prospects, not to mention the fact that the shortage of workers due to stepdaughter conditions and the fluctuations in this area also have a very serious impact. Ladies of the Government, Lords! The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights can send his report year after year, but without radical changes in your approach, we will not get one by one. But in order not to be accused of criticizing us, our constructive attitude is no more evident than that we were the only opposition party that supported the introduction of the school-guard system from the point of view of reality. Let us remember, and let us be honest, there was a great deal of hysteria surrounding this whole matter. Normality, standing on the ground of common sense, we said that it might be necessary to introduce the system, its justification is well established. Many of them had made terrible violations, and they cried wolf even when they shouldn't have. The Commissioner's report confirms us, Jobbik's position, and I quote: "The school warden's reports clearly show that the students have become familiar with the school guardian's presence, they have the courage to ask questions and ask the school guardians, who are also available at the level they can expect. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, The case of discrimination involving workers, especially children, shows well that there is still a great deal to be done in Hungary to promote a truly family-friendly approach. And if there really is a task with a national message, then this is it for a society on a demographic path that has been declining for decades. Jobbik is aware of the danger of population loss, and can most definitely welcome the Commissioner's comments such as the one I just mentioned from him. We also believe in the truth of the saying attributed to Széchenyi, according to which the power of a nation lies in the multitude of educated people, so we cannot accept situations where children and students are disadvantaged because of the lack of suitable developmental professionals. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Jobbik faction, I thank you for the work behind the report on a very complex system of activities, and as I indicated at the beginning of my speech, we will accept it. I wish you, your deputies and your entire office good health and perseverance for your future work.
u2022-10-05-20	It is now time for the lead speaker of the Group of our country, Mr Dócs, to come. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2022-10-05-21	Madam President, Dear House, Mr Ombudsperson, I would spare the Commissioner the personalism, for he has already received enough from the left. Thank you very much for your thorough, almost 200-page, beautiful, colorful report and your work done. We have heard from representatives of other political communities how they feel about this report, everyone has approached it from a different perspective, and I will do the same myself. There's something to delicacy about, so I'm gonna try to take a few segments out and show them the practical side, compare them with what's supposed to happen and what's a devastating reality. As described, fundamental human rights include fundamental civil and political rights such as the right to life or freedom, freedom of opinion and expression, equality before the law and economic, social and cultural rights such as the right to free participation in cultural life, the right to food, education and work. Well, given the current situation, we can say that these fundamental rights are now falling into a well, because we have seen how our freedom has been restricted, how we have been closed up in the last two years; we have seen how global community surfaces are crushing our country's freedom of opinion, how they are interfering with the formation of society and the influence of elections. We have seen that not everyone is equal before the law, because there are still extorted, victimless patriots called terrorists behind bars, and there are still many political and economic criminals in the state that are causing a lot of harm. We can see that the Hungarian economy is not crisis-resistant, and that this economy is not really Hungarian, and we are increasingly confronted with our vulnerability, our vulnerability, which makes citizens increasingly vulnerable, and at the same time, their fundamental rights are increasingly being undermined. Workers still have the right to work, but earning a decent living is less and less than a dignified life, since they are not going to be able to afford food or rent. I quote: "The rights of the second generation of human rights include economic, social and cultural rights, which are of a positive nature, i.e. the state can only implement them with positive action. State intervention and action in this area become a requirement. Activity means, on the one hand, the development of legislation and, on the other, the creation of economic, social and institutional conditions. [[11.00]] But the reality is the opposite, because it can be seen that instead of being positive, the direction was negative, and we can see that the state is leaving the institutions, the local governments that maintain the institutions, and even trying to pull off the skin after the last. The fact that anyone can turn to the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights is comforting and not enviable, if he believes that he or she has been affected by maladministration in relation to his or her fundamental rights. Given the scope of next year's accounts, there will be no question of counting them in larger numbers. I am particularly pleased that it is the responsibility of the Commissioner and his alternates to protect fundamental rights under the Fundamental Law. Although this is not seen by your employer, the Hungarian state, the Hungarian government, in the quality of education, in the appreciation of teachers, but as a high objective, special attention is paid to the protection of children's rights, the interests of future generations and the rights of the most vulnerable social groups. Well, unfortunately, there will be no shortage of such things, since the whole society is becoming vulnerable. The importance of protecting the interests of future generations is reflected in many places in the Fundamental Law. Even in the National Creed, we are responsible for our offspring, so we protect the living conditions of the generations that follow us through the careful use of our material, spiritual and natural resources. In addition, as regards the management and protection of national assets, it is a constitutional requirement that its purpose should be to serve the public interest, to meet common needs, to safeguard natural resources and to take account of the needs of future generations. Such is the protection of natural resources, in particular agricultural land, forests and water resources, within the meaning of Article P of the Fundamental Law. Compared to this, the state has just sold its strategic land, and has just issued a government decree that does not protect our forests, but gives us an unprofessional opportunity to destroy them, almost regardless of their ecological role, importance or renewal time and conditions. As well as the failed water management, we have just this year watched how our country will become a desert if we urgently fail to take satisfactory and rapid measures. These are the common heritage of the nation, the protection, maintenance and preservation of which for future generations is a special duty of the state and of everyone. It is also worth examining in the report the most typical aspects of public-interest announcements, which were the following, not surprisingly: criticism of the legislation on the protection certificate, which most of the country has experienced as negative discrimination; objections to traffic, traffic, traffic and condition of roads, which indicate that our road infrastructure network is in a catastrophic state; illegal disposal of waste, water pollution, air protection objections, which are included in Annex XXI. The unfortunate environmental pressures of the society of the century. But we don't have a Ministry of Environment and Nature, which, unfortunately, can be seen in the country. During the emergency, problems with education and health care, which not only challenged distance education, but even more, distance-non-healing, as the closures had at least as many victims as the epidemic itself. It is also worth noting that in the list of the most frequently sought-after bodies, the municipalities were in the second place, which barely survived the over-grabbing, lack of human resources, and even this extra burden was placed on them, and their bleeding is still taking place. Summoning things: these goals are not only necessary to define, but also to achieve, because we see how many areas of our lives we have, where our fundamental rights are already violated. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-10-05-22	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the keynote speeches, and since no one has applied for a two-minute speech, we will now have further speeches from its representatives. Imre Ritter, a German national representative, applied for a speech. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2022-10-05-23	Madam President, Dear House, I think I could have applied for two minutes, because my fellow speakers have already given me the opinion of the minority committee. I would just like to briefly mention three things, welcoming the Ombudsman, his deputies and all his colleagues. On the one hand, I would like to thank the committee on nationality for its positive statements on the Ombudsman's report. On the other hand, I would like to stress that there will always be a need for work as a national ombudsman, because it is an objective fact that nationalities are, as a general rule, in a minority, so that they cannot directly reach their legitimate needs in a democracy. It always depends on the sensitivity and empathy of the majority society in all societies, what rights they grant and give to nationalities. For this reason, more than a decade ago, we clearly experienced the abolition of the institution of the independent nationality ombudsman as a violation of nationality rights, and I promised President Ottó Heinek that I would address this in all my speeches to Parliament. On the basis of the more than ten years since then, however, it should also be said that in the last ten years, the relationship between indigenous ethnicities in Hungary and Hungarian politics, the government and parliament, has been fortunately a very significant positive change. I think we've had opportunities in the last ten years that we haven't had in the last hundred years. In the same way, a positive assessment should be made both at systemic level and in personal relations in the single ombudsman institution. I would like to thank the Ombudsman specifically for the fact that, when the Equal Treatment Authority was integrated, he agreed with the proposal made by the Nationality Committee to extend the powers of the Deputy Ombudsman for Nationality, and on this basis the Parliament accepted it, and since then the Office has been operating this way. I would like to highlight one more point about the future, based on the experience of the past. Mr Ombudsperson mentioned that only 30 legislative proposals were received for preliminary opinion. If we look at the work of the national minority committee, a very significant proportion of the amendments that we tabled during the parliamentary procedure were only necessary because the rapporteur and preparatory of the bill did not think about nationality aspects at the stage of preparation and did not involve the nationality committee, the nationalities in the preparation of the law, and that is why amendments had to be tabled during the parliamentary procedure. I must add immediately that this does not imply any ulterior motive or malice, since, without exception, the rapporteur has started with the maximum professional assistance for all of our proposals, and in many cases, if, for any reason, because of the parliamentary procedure, I have no longer had the opportunity to submit an amendment to the national minority committee or even to me as a Member, in many cases the rapporteur himself has done so in the summary amendment proposal to our request and to our request. So it's not the intention or the good intentions that are missing, it's the consultation in time. Once again, I would refer back to the sentence of Mr Ombudsman's report when he said that it was not always necessary to agree on everything, but it is always necessary to talk and to have the necessary consultations. [[11.10]] I think that if the ombudsman's office received more legislative proposals at the stage of preparation, the nationality committee, the national minority organisations, will be more involved in the preparation stage, so that we can make it very easy to resolve the nationalities aspects of the legislative proposals and ensure that they can always take place in good time and with professional preparation. I would like to thank the deputy ombudsman for the work of the ombudsman's office, and I would like to stress that all his colleagues, since one of the guarantees and foundations of the work carried out is that there is a stable set of people working on matters of nationality, who, on the one hand, have the necessary specific professional knowledge, experience, and empathy, which is needed in matters of nationality, because many times ethnic affairs have very serious feelings and emotional waves. This is not just a purely legal category and work that needs to be done on nationality issues, so thank you all for that. Of course, I trust that Parliament will accept the report. Thank you very much. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-05-24	I will ask my fellow Members if there is anyone else who would like to comment in the debate. [[For signal:]] Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát applied for a comment. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2022-10-05-25	Thank you very much. Madam President, Dear House, I am very pleased that we can talk about the issues involved. I believe that the Commissioner's work and the work of the Office are very underestimated and underestimated, even now. So if it were up to me to make this personal comment, I would allow much wider powers, much more extensive budget support and much larger apparatus, because the areas affected by today's debate also show that, to say the least, not all areas in Hungary are resolved. I see that, although it is a huge inconvenience to discuss, in October, the various developments of the previous year, the phenomena that we are talking about have been going on for years, sometimes even decades. It's enough to mention the problem of population loss, and I'm very glad that this came up. However, I would also like to point out that, although I am unable to argue in many cases with the conclusions of a comprehensive investigation into children's homes and nursing homes, there would be plenty of work to be done here, and we are seeing many violations, even concerning fundamental rights, of which we are hearing words crying out in the wilderness. It is said that a report is published on page 47, and this is listened politely to by the legislator or the majority government side, and, after all, it often does not follow any of this. I wouldn't underestimate the power of the public, but I wouldn't underestimate it. Even in the case of reduced VAT, I say that if the trader swallows the VAT reduction, the power of the public must be unleashed so as not to jeopardize his reputation or goodwill by acting contrary to the legislative will. Therefore, I would also like to capacitate you to be more courageous in expressing the criticism that many of us face in every case. I am very pleased that the residential institutions of people with disabilities have also been mentioned and have drawn conclusions on this, but I am confused about why we do not see stronger wordings in relation to the astonishing shortage of staff in the institutional system. Why doesn't anyone say, say, in the case of a child with a special education requirement, even if the institution has a legal status to deal with this child, even though there is a legal status, there is no living worker who would fulfil this status for this salary, in this labour market, under such circumstances. A crowd of children suffer a continuous violation of their rights through the fact that, although there is a legal status for them, they could receive the necessary improvements, help, and without physical limitations, they cannot obtain it. It would be easy to solve some of the problem, obviously from the financing side. There would be conditions for this, even in the budget space, but I do see that we are talking about some of the problem, of course; we are not talking about its core. More specifically, the demographic dimension has been mentioned here, and I am very pleased that I will be able to say a few sentences about this, but what we see is that outside demography, it is a financing issue, a lot of basic problems that we do not get to the core of. We also noted that we supported, for example, the establishment of a school-guarding system as a single opposition party. I have high hopes that this system can be even better, more effective, and that it can also achieve goals of national strategic importance, as regards the everyday sense of security and decent conditions, but I still need to talk here to make it clear that population loss is a real problem. The Bureau deals with this, makes statements. We have come to the point that the State Audit Office is also dealing with this area, sometimes it says that it is not him, because he is actually publishing studies, which are published by experts, but it is important to see that many times in the healthcare system, in the social care system, in the disability system, as I said, even though there would be an orderly or close legal status, there is no human resources, there is no living workforce to perform the mandatory tasks. It's an amazing problem, and they don't like to talk about it. It irritates me terribly, and it is not for the office, and it is not for the colleagues of my pro-government fellow Members to stand up, to sing praises, that, unfortunately, on the front of demography, what enormous results have been achieved, and unfortunately not. And you're not supposed to be a backup fan of that, because if you're a demographic counterattack, you're a traitor. The thing is, it's a big problem. I'm about my age, so I'm a little over 40 years old, and I've managed to get some kind of symptomatic treatment. The brutal fertility rate of 1.25 moved to or around 1.5. I would add that this was the case in all countries of the region, so there is no Hungarian miracle weapon, there is no Hungarian invention, and it is precisely our poverty certificate, our very frightening picture that, despite the relatively large number of family support sources, we can produce the same result as the neighbouring countries. We have also been below the EU average for a very long time, although it is obviously a fraud, as large-scale immigration is also included in the indicators, which may not need to be supported in this form, but we see that we have failed to achieve an outstanding result and that around 90,000 live births have reached a steady decline in the number of women of the relevant parental age. So it is expected that fewer and fewer children will be born, that we will live in an ageing society, that emigration continues. There may be a political science fiction about the reversal of the migration balance in Parliament, but while 930 and 1000 billion of Hungarians living abroad are sent home every single budget year, none of them try to tell me that more people are coming home than they are emigrating. These governments that are behind us have done nothing about what is expected to happen. It was expected and can be attributed to the date on which the various Western European labour markets open to Hungarian workers. There is no need to force anyone to stay home, but with a housing programme, with the guarantee of consumer rights and other rights, a motivational system could have been done, with which those wishing to survive in the homeland could stay home. And speaking of consumer protection, I am very upset about the fact that the infringement of consumer rights always changes, but comes back in different robes. In relation to consumer groups, we have discussed a lot about how to stop this process, especially in the case of our elderly, vulnerable countrymen. We also saw that consumer groups were practically banned by this government for the future, but they did not know or want to do much about the continued operation of the old ones. I have not heard the serious criticism of this, and I see that it is now more so through the various digital platforms, i.e. by electronic means, by scamming consumers, typically by the elderly, and I do not see the strong prepared Hungarian institutional system that would protect Hungarian citizens from this. So, overall, what I see in the proposal is that there is still a lot of work to be done, but it concerns very important areas, which I would also like to thank you for, so in today's debate we were talking about particularly important areas. There are differences in solutions, but I have a stronger sense of absence in various areas. [[11.20]] For example, what I don't understand is why the government doesn't admit that there is a terrible problem, why with hundreds of thousands of people imported from Brazil, Indonesia, there are more than a hundred thousand unemployed compatriots who are already out of three months, one of Europe's narrowest unemployment care systems, but they don't get retrained, they don't get an opportunity. In a manner of speaking, certain rights of this group are also violated. I would like to see far more pronounced, far more extensive findings about the violation of these groups, because the stronger we signal the problem, the greater the chance that at least part of it will reach the government ears, and at least part of it will be a proposal for a solution of some sort. I am a little sad because the interests of the very sensitive groups listed here should be protected by older people, people with disabilities, children should be the subject of a national minimum; we should not necessarily have sharp debates about this in Parliament. So I am very encouraging both the office and the experts here to make the criticism even more pronounced and to make it some kind of national minimum. Because the fact that we have to argue on these issues with a short one year delay certainly does not improve efficiency. But I do see that we are going to debate these issues every year, and that cannot be our goal. For this reason, in the interests of solutions, as a pro-solution person, I would like to call on you to send these warning words as loudly as possible to where they should be. Thank you for your patience, Madam President.
u2022-10-05-26	I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The joint general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Ákos Kozma, Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. Kozma Ákos nodds.]] He says he wants to answer. Then I'll give you a 30-minute window. Here you go.
u2022-10-05-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, I promise you that I will not complete the 30-minute time frame, but I think that there have been some statements and suggestions that need to be answered in substance. First of all, I thank you all for this constructive, otherwise, I see that every year there is a constructive debate and discussion. Thank you for the questions, thank you for the criticism, and thank you for all the substantive points that are of forward-looking importance for our work. Let me begin by reading a paragraph from the Fundamental Rights Commissioner Act, perhaps to answer a number of questions in summary terms. Article 11 The Commissioner of Fundamental Rights is independent in his proceedings, subject only to the law and cannot be ordered in connection with his activities. I trust that this legal provision can answer many of the points, criticisms and questions that have been raised here. Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank Vice-President Zoltán Kovács for his comments on behalf of the Committee on Justice. Thank you for the committee's work and cooperation. Thank you for raising the questions of our six regional offices opened this year. And since the Vice President has mentioned our regional offices, allow me to say a few sentences about this. We also tried to take substantial steps in relation to the better availability and visibility of our office in 2022, and from April this year the customer service of our office will be available in six large rural cities, Debrecen, Szeged, Miskolc, Győröt, Pécs and Székesfehérvár. This never existed before. I think that in this digital world it is very important that our office is also available personally to those who may not have the most modern and advanced digital tools or are not available to them. In addition to Budapest, our office is now hosting clients in six regional offices, and in all cases the procedure can be initiated in these offices as well. Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for your words. I would also like to thank the speakers of the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, Mrs Erika Kissné Köles, and Mrs Vera Giricz. I think that cooperation with the committee is exemplary. I would also like to thank the Deputy Commissioner once again for the excellent and high-quality professional work she is doing in this regard, and which, on the basis of what the committee has said, has also led to the recognition of the committee. Once again, I would like to emphasise that the professional relations that represent reliability, experience in enforcing rights and interests, and cooperation with excellent professional partners in the capacity to act on nationality policy, are satisfied in all respects by the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities. And I think that it will also define a task for us in the future, so that our cooperation with the Committee can continue within the same framework. If I may mention one more area in this area, which I did not do in the Expoze: we also consider the issues of preparing and conducting the census currently under way to be particularly important in cooperation with the Committee of Nations. I can point out that the census figures are, in principle and in practice, extremely important to those involved in the area of nationality law, which I would also like to emphasise here in plenary. It is of particular importance that data on natural persons living in Hungary show a real, reliable and nuanced picture of the complex situation of the 13 ethnic communities living in Hungary. The census concerns a number of fundamental rights of members of ethnic communities. This includes the right to free choice and ownership of nationality identity, the right to preserve, the right to privacy and the protection of personal or special personal data, and the right to establish nationality authorities. I can say that Deputy Commissioner has also been involved in the professional preparation of the census and we are monitoring the process of the census. I wanted to highlight this in particular with regard to nationalities. I thank the speakers for their contributions, and I promise that we will strive to keep this good cooperation in the future. Allow me to say a few words about the keynote speech. I thank Mr Lajos Mészáros for his supportive words. Thank you very much for the detailed analysis of the work we have done for two of my deputies. I think it is also my honour that not only the office as a whole, but also the two Vice-Presidents' work has been given such recognition by the Member. Thank you very much. Although László Sebian-Petrovszki is not in the room at the moment, let me respond to what he has said. Speaking of our international judgment, in his words, our international downgrading, allow me to say two words about this, although, as I indicated in the Commission debate, this fact, which they indicated as being downgraded, took place in 2022. So, the accreditation of national human rights institutions is mandatory every five years. In the case of our Office, this began in 2019. Here, I note only in parentheses that I took office on 26 September 2019. For the period from 2015 to 19 the procedure was postponed for the first time for a period of one year to respond to the objections and then for another year in view of the coronal virus epidemic, and finally the final decision was reached in May of this year. The criticisms against the institution therefore relate to a significant part of September 2019, i.e. the period before my entry into office. Since I took office in September 2019, I have been working to get to know people's problems directly, personally and with my colleagues. To this end, the series of national visits we have carried out in recent years has been a significant opportunity to gain experience, and we intend to continue in the future, and in doing so, it has been a significant step, and it is a major milestone for our six regional offices, which opened in 2022 as mentioned above. [[11.30]] In 2021, however, the Global Federation of National Human Rights Institutions was accredited by 128 national human rights institutions, including categories A, B and C. As an example, the Slovak, Swedish or Belgian national human rights institutions, such as, say, the category A national legal institution, Afghanistan, Russia and Iraq, still have a B status. [[It's grumpy.]] Finally, allow me to express one more thought in this regard: independence is the main requirement for national human rights institutions. The reason behind the re-accreditation decision was that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, not on the basis of the guidance of the Accreditation Committee, would like to decide, on the basis of his own professional knowledge and the professional knowledge of his staff, that he considers that there is a breach of fundamental rights which he would have to investigate and decide on the matter of the instruments of action. The independence declared by the Paris principles is therefore contrary to the fact that the Reaccreditation Sub-Committee questions the professional competence of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights by identifying the fundamental rights approach he expects, by trying to influence his activities in this direction and not recognising any other approach to the protection of human rights. Going on: allow me to take one more thought on this subject. In the last month, Mr Chris Field, President of the International Ombudsman's Institute, has visited Hungary and is the head of nearly 400 ombudsman and human rights institutions in more than 150 countries around the world. Let me read a quote from Mr. President's interview with the Hungarian Nation. I quote: I am exceptionally appreciative and exceptional in Hungary for the activities of the Ombudsman for human rights. I think that fundamental human rights are very well maintained in their country and that they are respected. Ákos Kozma, who is now a good friend of mine, is an esteemed member of the Ombudsman's community as Commissioner for Fundamental Rights in Hungary and a very important member of the IOI I led as President. As I saw Commissioner and his colleagues at the Hungarian-Romanian and Hungarian-Ukrainian border, for example, during the reception of refugees from Ukraine, as they guarantee and protect their human rights, it was certainly a heartwarming experience for me. I've learned a lot from all of this myself. This is how Mr Chris Field, President of the International Ombudsman's Institute, closes his ranks. That is all I wanted to add to the points on our international judgment. On the other hand, still remaining with Mr Sebian-Petrovsk's comments: we have already talked a lot about the integration of the Equal Treatment Authority, and I also had the opportunity to put some thoughts in this regard last year, in the course of the report on the 20th. What I can say is that official matters are dealt with in serious and strict procedural order against the Member's statement, and there are neither sleeping matters here nor sleeping matters, as Mr President said. With regard to DG Equal Treatment, the rules of procedure are strict, there are procedural deadlines, which are always respected and respected. There are no fewer cases, as I mentioned in my expo, the case number is essentially the same as the number of cases carried out by the Authority of Equal Treatment in previous years, and I believe that in this regard, all relevant data are available on our Office's website, and, as I mentioned, part of the report is a report on the work of our Directorate-General for Equal Treatment. We've been talking about the rapporteur's network. In addition to the Equal Treatment Authority, there was previously a network of rapporteurs, which meant that in rural cities one lawyer was entrusted with helping citizens in these equal treatment cases. We have moved this into a much higher category, as I said, this year we opened six regional regional offices in six rural cities of Hungary, and so I can no longer, not once a month, but continuously, every day of the week, personally and on the phone, my country colleagues are also at the disposal of citizens. I think it's a higher category. I believe that the former rapporteur network has not been abolished, but has been transformed into a much higher, more professional and office-based local customer service office. I think that the criticism does not stop at all. The Member has also raised the length of time to answer the cases. I can also say here that, of course, we are publishing our reports following a detailed fundamental rights analysis in all aspects of public affairs, and in ombudsman-type procedures, to the best of our knowledge. You can obviously see that, too, and you all know that our reports do not show one or two pages of conflicted work, but, in many cases, work with 40-50 pages of thorough fundamental rights analysis, where we try to address all areas and issues concerned. So in this respect, I can say that, as in the future, and as in 2021, too, in 2022, we will do everything in our power to deliver more detailed, meaningful and forward-looking reports as quickly as possible, of course, according to our available human resources. I can take responsibility for this personally. The congressman raised matters of the LGBTQ community. I can say here that, as in all cases, this area is just as important to us as any other case, the cases are constantly moving forward, and there have been reports and decisions in this area, issued by the Directorate-General for Equal Treatment, even in the form of a classic ombudsmanship, which have drawn up various findings in this area. So I can tell you that every case is important to us, every case is dealt with in the same degree and in the same intensity. I thank Mrs Hajnalka Juhász for her words of appreciation on behalf of KDNP. We will continue to earn what the Member said in the future. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, who is also not here, has raised some critical remarks, so allow me to respond to what she has said in her absence. In essence, he made critical comments on the same topics as László Sebian-Petrovski. It is a category B institution, and I have tried to give a detailed answer in the first half of my present response, and I also think that I have already done the necessary answer in relation to the merger of EBA. There is one more point that you have raised here, Congresswoman, that you have missed the former Advisory Council. This Advisory Board ceased long before integration. Moreover, in the spirit of cooperation with civilians, our office operates, not only in this area, but within the framework of the national preventive mechanism, a civil consultation body, which has nearly two dozen members, and last year we extended the possibility for members to participate in this. We already had a meeting this year, so I think that cooperation with civilians is problem-free, and that, by the way, any sign or request other than the consultation body will, of course, be taken into account. But it's an institutionalized cooperation with the civilian sphere, which I'm very happy to run. And as I said, we've expanded it, so our civil consultation panel is still available and functioning. Mr Dávid Dócs from Mi Hungary: I really thank you for your suggestion that we are dealing with a large number of cases, and the Member has acknowledged this. Not going in line, I apologise to Mr Lajos Löcsei of the Momentum: I would like to highlight one thing from his contribution; perhaps the sentence: "The ombudsman institution is a treasure. I think that this sentence was the most positive sentence in his speech to me. [[11.40]] Mr Róbert Dudás, on behalf of Jobbik: thank you for your positive comments on our work. I would like to say here, although several people have suggested why the Parliament is discussing our report last year. I can say two sentences here: the legislation requires us to submit on 31 March, and we will comply with this, as in the past, in all respects, and we have submitted our report in accordance with the regulations by 31 March 2021. We were, of course, there at committee meetings on the date announced, we attended and we are happy to be at the disposal of this House, and the rest is not our table. I would particularly like to thank Mr Dudás for his words of appreciation for our work in the protection of the rights of people with disabilities. I think that there are some priority areas that are of particular importance to me and to us. One of these is our work on protecting the rights of people with disabilities; we will continue to work with all our efforts to pool significant capacities in this area, so that we can carry out investigations and findings as widely as possible here and in the future. And what is the afterlife of our reports, our investigations, our findings, and how, or how, they do or agree with what we have addressed in our report is obviously a matter beyond our role. In all cases, we try to make our requests, our signals, our expectations as a summary of the report. If the recipient of the report disagrees with or disagrees with what is stated in our report, there is a certain conciliation procedure in the law, where we can tell him again why we consider what we have written, raised or have the opportunity to take these issues into account specifically in our parliamentary report regarding the non-accepted, so that they are not implemented, in our reports. As I mentioned earlier, I have made some progress, and I would like to thank Mr Dócs, Mr Dávid, for mentioning that we are dealing with a large number of cases. That is true, and as I tried to introduce it in my expo, it increased last year, and it is likely that the number of cases will also increase this year. In fact, this is partly due to the fact that citizens have also recognised the legal possibility and take advantage of the legal possibility that our office provides them. But for example, the creation of our regional offices will obviously generate the personal cases submitted, increasing the number of cases that citizens can now submit in six of our rural offices. We consider this to be important, so I think that the increase in the number of cases confirms that the operation of our office is going in the right direction, that this institution is needed, and that we are trying to earn the confidence that citizens honor us with. Last but not least, Imre Ritter, Mr President, I would also like to thank you once again for the cooperation that we have already experienced with the members of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and also with the President. We will continue to earn this trust in the future, and Commissioner, the guarantee that this area will continue to be in good hands in the future. Of course, I personally consider the protection of the rights of nationalities to be a priority area. Last but also not least, I thank Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát for his suggestions, thank you for your support for our work. The power of the public, perhaps, which I would like to highlight from the voice of the Member: yes, we also consider it important, and as I have mentioned the functioning of our civil consultation body, I would like to mention in the public context our various media-related manifestations, our website, our Facebook page and all the public-seeking and public-visiting platforms that we use and want to use in the future. Yes, a significant part of our work is the public, and in the success of our work we need public cooperation, and we will continue to make use of all possibilities in the future. From the point of view of the class, I promised not to take the time, so here again I would like to thank the honourable Parliament for the substantive, professional debate. Madam President and Parliament, I ask that our report on the year 2021 be adopted. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-10-05-28	Mr Zoltán Kovács, rapporteur for the Committee on Justice, has the opportunity to respond to what has been said in the debate. I'll give the floor to Congressman. Here you go.
u2022-10-05-29	Madam President, Dear Parliament, Ákos Kozma, Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, has responded in detail to the points, and I do not wish to repeat them, because they have already been mentioned in part at the committee meeting, and, as the Commission's rapporteur, I would like to reflect on a few things. On the one hand, I would like to make a general comment on the question of time when the report will be presented to the House. It is indeed closer to the end of the 22nd year to the report of the 21st year, but we do know that.22 was a special year, because there were elections, and Parliament has rarely met because of the elections, but it is absolutely necessary that its parliamentary debate be closer to the reporting year. The other is whether or not there are negotiations, and when; Imre Ritter raised this. There is now a new legislation, which puts the mechanism of negotiation much closer than it has been before, so we hope that this problem will be resolved. As far as the voice of ethnic advocates is concerned, they spoke to the report from their own special perspective and supported it. I believe that this justifies the cooperation on the nationalities side that is good between Parliament, spokespersons and the ombudsman's office. There's nothing new under the sun, I'd like to tell you. As for the comments of the left-wing representatives, we have become accustomed to them: they come in, some phrases are taken away, and then they leave, and they do not respect the head of a publicly independent institution by waiting for answers to their proposals. What László Sebian-Petrovski and Zita Gurmai raised, the Ombudsman answered, and I do not want to mention them. There may be one thing to mention; I quote what Congressman Sebian says: "The affairs are under sleep." I remember one time when I was a football player, the coach told me that the fighters should strive to make better implementation of the goals. That was a remark about the same. But that is not the point, but the point is that some 6,000 cases were settled in 2021, and this shows the strength, activity and dedication of the office. Perhaps Lajos Löcsei said that politically sensitive issues should be manifested more often; I am just saying that an independent institution must maintain its independence in all circumstances and act as such in their proceedings. What may strengthen this relationship between law-seeking citizens and the ombudsman's office, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, said that the administrative procedures are being strengthened, they are being shifted in the direction that they are being implemented even more on the basis of the ius script. [[11.50]] Z. Kárpát to Dániel, who also pulled out of Parliament: he was pushing demography problems in the first place. This should not be resolved by the Ombudsman's office, in my opinion. The Hungarian family support system is among the first in Europe. That's what it's like to have a baby. I think that there has never been such support for families, childbearing, as in recent times during the Orbán governments. So thank you again for the opportunity for me to represent the committee. Thank you very much for the work of the ombudsman's staff, the deputies and the ombudsman. Continue to do this with the same elan and forceful work, and we hope that the number of sleeping cases will decrease even more, and the satisfaction that surrounds this office will continue to increase. So I wish you good work. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-10-05-30	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform my fellow Members that it is possible to submit amendments by 16:00 on Thursday. The Statute of the Universal Postal Association, the Ninth, Tenth and Tenth Pót Protocol, the amendment and the Final Protocol of the Universal Postal Convention of the Universal Postal Union signed at the 2012 Doha Convention, the amendment and the Final Protocol of the 2016 Istanbul Congress, the amendment and the Final Protocol of the 2018 Addis Ababa Convention, the amendment and the Second Additional Protocol of the Universal Postal Union signed at the 2019 Geneva Convention, and the draft law on the announcement of the amendment and closing of the 2012 Abidjan Convention. Government referral T/1306. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, Secretary of State, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-10-05-31	Thank you, Madam President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In order to ensure the consistency of international and Hungarian law, the aim of the proposed law is to ensure harmonised provision of international postal services by publishing these international treaties and increasing them to the Hungarian legal order in order to ensure consistency of international and Hungarian law, the final minutes of the 9th, 10th and 11th Additional Protocol to the Statute of the Universal Postal Association, the amendment and the final minutes of the Universal Postal Convention of the Universal Postal Union signed at the Doha Convention in 2012, the amendment and the closing minutes of the 2016 Congress in Istanbul, the amendment and the final minutes of the General Postal Union signed at the 2018 Congress in Geneva and the Second Additional Protocol to the 2019 Congress in Addis Abidjan. Dear House, The Universal Postal Association is an outstanding global forum for international postal cooperation, one of the United Nations' largest and oldest specialised institutions, founded in 1874 by 22 countries, including Hungary, with interstate contracts. Hungary continues to play an active role in the work of the 192-membered organization. The main decision-making body of the Universal Postal Association is the regular assembly, where the governments of each Member State are represented by the necessary authorised agents. The documents containing the decisions taken at the convention shall include the Statute, the General Rules and the Universal Postal Convention and its Rules, on the one hand, ensure the functioning of the organisation of the Universal Postal Association and, on the other hand, the rules on the international postal service and the provisions on mail and postal parcel services. Each Member State of the Universal Postal Association considers these to be binding on itself and to strengthen this in its own legal order. Dear House, Based on all this, I ask that T/1306. To discuss bill No 1 and to support the publication of international treaties contained in the bill. I thank you in advance for your attention and support. Thank you for the opportunity, Madam President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-10-05-32	Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Sigismund, the lead speaker of Fidesz.
u2022-10-05-33	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, In Hungary, the Statute of the Universal Postal Association, the Final Protocol, the General Rules of the Association and its Final Protocol were published in 1967. From time to time, the legislation of a long-standing and global institution should be reviewed in line with today's challenges. The protocols and additional protocols in the international treaty before us provide for, inter alia, the establishment of so-called narrower associations, special agreements, the scope and purpose of the association itself, exceptional relations, postal security and relations between the Universal Postal Association and the United Nations. They also address, as has already been said, the financial and operational background of the association and the case of possible Member State exits. Maintaining our membership in the Universal Postal Association, accepting changes in documents related to its operation, is an important issue, so on behalf of the Fidesz parliamentary group, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-10-05-34	Our next speaker is Róbert Dudás, lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. I give you the floor, please. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2022-10-05-35	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Dear Parliament, Mr Secretary of State said that the universal postal service was synonymous with the aim of ensuring harmonious operation. I can totally agree with that. At the same time, however, there are a number of events in our country that are not precisely aimed at harmonious operation, and if this continues, it will absolutely not ensure harmonious operation. A long time ago, I submitted a resolution proposal to the Parliament, which was voted down by the pro-government representatives, the majority of the pro-government representatives. This was about amending the current legislation. The current regulation aims to require the provision of postal services in settlements with a population of more than 1000 inhabitants. Seeing the processes that are usually characteristic of the countryside, however, the news of the last few days and weeks shows that several post offices are closing down in Budapest, but I know that they will still operate with a minimum number of offices, seeing how much trouble and damage it can cause in the countryside, if this process starts, I suggested that the thousand people should be taken down to 500 people, so in the settlements where the number of permanent inhabitants exceeds 500, the post office should be open. He's been voted down, I'll say it again. In fact, I go further: I have made statements, and I am not necessarily thinking of politicians, but I am thinking of the Hungarian Post, who also indicated on his website, if it is true that I am spreading false news about the information that I formulated both in the bill and in the previous term, once again, about a year ago, here in the walls of this House. Well, the problem is, I told you, and I'm gonna say it again, and with me, the population in the countryside would be the happiest if they were false news, but they weren't. [[12.00]] And now I'm going to repeat those thoughts roughly, along with new information about what I said then, and unfortunately, they're becoming reality. About five to six years ago, in the context of the restructuring of the savings cooperatives, it was also said that their operation and the number of offices open should be streamlined. In many rural settlements, savings cooperatives were closed. At the time, I was mayor of a small town in Mátra, and when I indicated to the management of the savings cooperative how much damage this would cause, they said that it was not a problem, so let's not shout wolf, because it is, say, 15 kilometers away and they leave a savings cooperative open. They didn't look at it, and it's very common for decision makers to believe that 15 kilometers from an air-conditioned office in Budapest doesn't seem to be a long distance, but they can take a bus or two in that area, because, unfortunately, rail traffic in that area is also eliminated, they can take a bus or two. So transport is not exactly the same as it is in Budapest or in the metropolitan area. Unfortunately, these were closed, not taking into account the sounds of the countryside, the settlements and the people who lived there. Perhaps another small remedy was the news that has unfortunately not been brought to fruition since the fact that, by the way, one of the two financial institutions will definitely survive, due to the merger of savings cooperatives and post offices. This was a small remedy for the people living there, because let's not forget that here, besides the post office, the population of the countryside stands up and fights because this is the only remaining financial institution in the countryside in Hungary, this is the only option and this is the only place where the people living in the small settlements, in many cases the small pensioners, the elderly, patients who, in many cases, do not necessarily leave the borders of settlements too often... this is the only place for them to be safe and secure financial measures. Well, this merger did not take place, and now, as I said a year ago, the current post offices are being transformed. Then they denied it, and most likely they won't approve of me now, and they won't tell me the truth, but the problem is that reality is what I'm saying. They are trying to centralize the small post offices in the countryside where this has already been done, and there is where it is in progress, in the spring of next summer, in many cases this transformation will be dated, that the offices will cease locally, the delivery person will go to the neighbouring settlement, there he will get a small electric moped, for which he will have to take an exam, with that electric moped he will go back to his own settlement, then he will do the delivery service, then he will moped back, there he will settle, he will count, leave his vehicle there, and he will take a bus home to his own settlement. I also have to say that I recommend that anyone who has invented this from an air-conditioned office in Budapest should go to Hungary in the countryside. So in addition to 40, minus 20, in snow to the knees, with millions in your bag, backpack, in anything, it is irresponsible and unthinkable to plan this, so that the Hungarian postal service, which is currently in serious labour shortage, will have even more serious problems, because many people will not be able to do so. So I suggest that you consider this service, this kind of transformation, to the attention of the honourable Secretary of State, and through the Secretary of State to the attention of the government. I will, of course, rephrase and update my bill submitted last year, and I ask you that if you, pro-government representatives and the Hungarian government, are interested in providing and enforcing rural people through rural post offices and rural post offices, please vote in favour of my bill, support the obligation to keep post office openings in every settlement of more than 500 people. Thank you very much.
u2022-10-05-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. We will continue with the keynote speeches. From the KDNP Group, Mrs Hajnalka Juhász is next. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-10-05-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The bill currently under discussion basically includes amendments to the charter of the Universal Postal Association and to the Postal Convention of the Universal Postal Association, which was adopted by the Universal Postal Association at the conventions of the Doha, Istanbul, Addis Ababa and Geneva. This international postal convention is today the UN specialized organization, which was originally founded in 1874 by 22 countries with interstate contracts, including Hungary. The aim of the organisation is to ensure the organisation of the general postal service and contribute to its development. This is reflected in the amendments adopted at the aforementioned conventions, which clarified the Statute and the Universal Postal Convention on a number of current issues. The amendments concern the management of the mail and parcel, but also include the revision of the rules on postal security, counter-terrorism and data protection issues or the conversion of the mail settlement system. The changes also include the regulation of the accounting of postal operators in the Member States for the delivery of goods ordered by private individuals from international online stores. In order to harmonise the operational functioning of the services, the rules on prohibited or conditional consignments and the IT standards enabling tracing have been amended. At the convention, the operation of the Universal Postal Association was also affected, for example by clarifying the rules of entry and entry and exclusion. Dear fellow Members, As has been shown above, the amendments aim to ensure that the international postal service and the documents adopted at the Vienna Congress in 1964 comply with Article XXI. The challenges of the century. By adopting the bill, they contribute to creating a harmonised legal and professional background for the provision of international postal services. Our obligation from our universal postal union membership is to declare the international treaty and fit it into our legal order in the Member States, thus ensuring the harmony of domestic and international law. Therefore, the KDNP faction supports it. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-10-05-38	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Ms Zita Gurmai. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2022-10-05-39	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! Very precisely, the people in front of me said that this was indeed a document adopted at the Vienna Congress in 1964, the documents of the Universal Postal Association. The documents were published by Hungary by Decree-Law No 26 of 1967. We also know that the association's assembly meets regularly and adapts the association's documents to current challenges, and, as my fellow Member Hajnalka Juhász has just mentioned, he really wants to live up to the modern age, and it is clear that, beyond the fact that in 2012 in Doha, in Istanbul, in 16 and 18, in Addis Ababa and in 2019 in Geneva, the decision contained in the text of the ninth, tenth and eleventh additional protocol of the association amending its statute is clearly defined in a separate article on the scope, function and, of course, the purpose of the association. The scope of definitions used in the Statute has been amended. The list of documents constituting the association's documents has been transformed. The regulation of narrower associations and special agreements has been published. The rules of relations with the UN have been laid down. They supplement the rules of association and the admission procedure and, of course, amend the provisions concerning the signing, certification, ratification, acceptance, approval and accession of the association's instruments. This bill is supported by the Hungarian Socialist Party. Thank you so much for listening.
u2022-10-05-40	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone would like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Yes, Congressman Barna Pál Sigismund of the Fidesz Group has applied. [[12.10]]
u2022-10-05-41	Thank you, Mr President, I would just like to react very briefly to the words of my fellow Member Mr Róbert Dudás. This is an international treaty, but he thought it was important to talk about something else. It is very strange that a member organization of the left-wing coalition, the coalition that destroyed the countryside, is now in fear of rural settlements. I would just like to say briefly that one of the most successful programs of the past years is the Hungarian village programme, and in three years the government spent more than 600 billion forints to improve the quality of life of Hungarian rural people. Thank you very much. That's all I wanted to say. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-05-42	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask my fellow Members that there is someone else who would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will now ask Mr János Fónagy, as rapporteur, to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Deputy Secretary, you have the floor.
u2022-10-05-43	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for the supporting contributions on the subject of the proposal. However, for the sake of professional correctness and the record, allow me to refer very briefly to them, since the proposal itself is more than 200 pages of technical text, so that I can explain what the proposal was about in relation to the comments which are not closely relevant here. The 2012 Doha Congress dealt with postal security, anti-terrorism and data protection issues. The 16th Congress in Istanbul discussed the revision of certain elements of the mail and package portfolio and the transformation of the mail settlement system. The 18th Addis Ababa Congress, in addition to the organizational and operational transformation of the Universal Postal Association, amended the international postal mail portfolio, which was among the most important and did not mention the IT standards for the transmission of the writing of the blind and the monitoring of international mail. During the 19th Congress in Geneva, webshops regulated the settlement between postal operators in the Member States after the delivery of shipments of goods ordered by private individuals. I mention these two issues because both of them had a strong impact on the otherwise common problem of Hungarian customers using the services of Magyar Posta and their very frequent comments, unfortunately giving rise to mostly substantiated complaints. The 2021 Congress referred to the inclusion of Member States in the organisation and, as a representative, expressed its position on the exclusion of them and amended the rules on prohibited or conditional consignments and the same monitoring rules to harmonise operational operations. Dear House, I thought it was important to say that this is what the proposal is about, that the content of the proposal concerns major international conventions, whose incorporation into the Hungarian legal order facilitates the security of supply for Magyar Posta's customers and the improvement of domestic service standards. I therefore ask once again that this House support our presentation. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-05-44	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! The amendment proposals can be submitted on Thursday, which is 16:00 tomorrow. The general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on the announcement of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on the termination of the agreement on the promotion and mutual protection of investments is now now taking place. The government referral T/1204. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Azbej Tristan, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-10-05-45	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The purpose of the bill before you is to terminate the investment protection agreement between Hungary and Norway, which is consistent with Hungary's obligations arising from its membership of the European Union and with the judgment given by the Court of Justice of the European Union binding on the Member States. Please allow me first to briefly explain the content of the judgment on which the bill is based and its legal consequences for Hungary. In its judgment in the case of the Slovak Republic v Achmea B. V, the Court of Justice of the European Union held that the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union precludes the arbitration clause contained in international investment protection agreements concluded between Member States. According to the arbitration clause, if an investor in a Member State of the European Union invests in another Member State and there is a dispute about the investment, the investor may initiate arbitration proceedings against the Member State of the Union concerned. According to the court, the arbitration clauses set out in the bilateral investment agreements within the EU described above are contrary to EU law. In order to implement the Achmea judgment and to establish a coordinated action at EU level, Member States have undertaken to terminate all bilateral investment protection agreements between themselves. In view of the objective of the EEA Agreement to ensure uniform interpretation and application of the provisions of Union law, which are equivalent to those laid down in Union law, the Court of Justice has made clear in its previous decisions that the fundamental freedoms relating to investment protection apply mutatis mutandis to investments between the European Union and Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. In view of this, the judgment of the Court of Justice in Achmea also affects the agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on the promotion and mutual protection of investments, the termination of which is thus in accordance with the law of the European Union. On the basis of the Hungarian legislation, the authorisation of the Parliament is required for the termination of the international legal obligation in question by the Hungarian party. The termination shall be ordered by law and the replacement of the register containing the termination by mutual agreement shall be published in the same law. In addition, provision should be made for the repeal of the former publication legislation. Dear Parliament, Hungary shall act in accordance with its obligations under Union law by concluding an agreement on the termination of an investment protection agreement with Norway. That is why I ask the honourable Members and gentlemen to accept the bill. Thank you very much for your attention this time. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-05-46	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Sigmond Barna Pál. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-10-05-47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Dear House, The last time we had a similar bill was in June, which affected our investment protection agreement with the United Kingdom. Its basis, as has been said, was the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union in a specific case. According to the so-called Achmea judgment, investment protection agreements which allow two EU Member States to bring proceedings against each other before an arbitration tribunal are contrary to EU law. The Court argued that this would jeopardise the primacy, effectiveness and direct effect of EU law and the system of redress provided for in EU treaties. [[12.20]] Following the judgment, Member States undertook to terminate their agreements with each other. The agreement with the Government of the Kingdom of Norway in April 1991 provided the parties with just such an opportunity and therefore it is also subject to winding-up obligations, as was the previous agreements between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland or the Government of the Republic of Austria. I believe that the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the subsequent responses of the Member States of the European Union are clear and that the international and Hungarian practices that have begun are an example that can be followed. I therefore call on my fellow Members, on behalf of the Fidesz fraction, to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause.]]
u2022-10-05-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Ms Zita Gurmai. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2022-10-05-49	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Dear fellow Members, Under the proposal, the Parliament authorises the termination of the agreement on the promotion and mutual protection of investments between the Hungarian and Norwegian States. Indeed, as regards comments on content, Mr Secretary of State said very precisely what is behind the case, the Court of Justice of the European Union stated on 6 March 2018 in the case of the Slovak Republic v Achmea B.V. that the arbitration clause contained in international investment protection agreements concluded between Member States is contrary to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, as it undermines the system of redress provided for by the EU Treaties, thereby endangering the autonomy, effectiveness, priority and direct scope of EU law and the principle of mutual trust between Member States. Taking into account the objective of the Agreement on the European Economic Area, that the same provision as that laid down in Union legislation should be interpreted and applied in a uniform manner with the law of the European Union, the Court of Justice has made clear in its earlier decisions that the fundamental freedoms relating to investment protection also apply to investments between the European Union and Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein, including the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on the promotion and mutual protection of investments, the abolition of which is thus in accordance with the law of the European Union. In November of last year, agreements on the termination of similar agreements with Sweden and Finland were concluded for the same reason. Unlike my fellow Member, it seems that I have brought two other cases, not the current one, but it is important that they also be recorded in the minutes. Your request will be met both by the Secretary of State and by my pro-government fellow Member: this proposal is supported by the Hungarian Socialist Party. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
u2022-10-05-50	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Ms Hajnalka Juhász. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-10-05-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This bill is also an example of how important it is for the Hungarian Government to comply with and enforce the judgments of the Luxembourg Court of Justice. We are talking about the judgment of 2018, the Slovak Republic v. Achmea, the most important clause of which is the creation of legal harmonisation with EU law. This is our aim, since the provision of bilateral arbitration clauses would be contrary to Articles 267 and 344 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This is the subject of the bill and, therefore, in order to harmonise legislation with the European Union, the KDNP of course supports it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
u2022-10-05-52	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, Fellow Members! This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I ask my fellow Members that someone would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I am now asking Mr Azbei Tristan, State Secretary, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Azbei Tristan: No, thank you.]] He doesn't want to answer. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted on Thursday, which is 16:00 tomorrow. It is now coming to the attention of the Council of Ministers of the European Union, the Council of the European Union, the European Economic and Social Committee, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions and the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions and the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions and the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions, the Committee of the Regions and the Committee of the Regions. Government referral T/1225, T/1206. and T/1207. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now give the floor to Mr Péter Takács, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior, author of the bill. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-10-05-53	Mr President, Dear House, The United Nations conventions form the cornerstone of the international drug control system. Their aim is twofold: to prevent the abuse of psychoactive substances and to ensure the availability of such substances for medical and scientific purposes. The drug convention and the psychotropic convention classify drugs and psychotropic substances on the basis of their therapeutic value, their risk to health and the risk of abuse. The drug convention was designed to regulate cannabis, cocaine and opium-like substances, but with the emergence of new psychoactive substances such as amphetamine-type stimulants, Member States considered it necessary to create a new contract, thus creating the psychotropic convention. The 1988 Convention places under international control the substances most commonly used for illicit manufacture of drugs and psychotropic substances, known as precursors, and provides for further measures to combat drug trafficking. The normative functions of the United Nations Committee on Drugs set out in the three Conventions include the decision on the scope of control of substances, the listing of a substance, the transfer of a substance between lists or the deletion from the list. The cancellation process will start with a notification to the Secretary-General, including the proposed amendment, supporting information such as statistical data, research results, clinical trial data. Under the Conventions, States Parties to that Convention have the right to initiate the procedure for listing. In addition, the World Health Organisation, WHO, may submit a proposal for listing under the Drug Convention and the Psychotropic Convention. The WHO is responsible for the medical and scientific evaluation of the substance in question through the Committee on Drug Addiction, composed of independent experts in the field of drugs and drugs. As regards the amendment of the lists of the 1988 Convention, the International Drug Control Body is entitled to take the initiative. States Parties may make their views known on the list during the inclusion procedure and provide additional information on the substances concerned. At the annual meeting of the United Nations Committee on Drugs, the States Parties shall decide on the inclusion by majority vote in the form of a decision. The decisions shall enter into force within 180 days of the notification and the States Parties shall have an obligation to take the legislative measures necessary to bring into force or implement the provisions of the Conventions in their respective territories. [[12.30]] Of the following legislative proposals, T/1205. The United Nations Committee on Drugs has decided to include two substances in the drug convention list. According to the Hungarian legislation in force, methonitazene is a new psychoactive substance, so the abuse of it in Hungary is currently punishable. This is supported by the inclusion of drugs and the possibility of more severe punishment. The T/1206. recommendation. According to the decision of the United Nations Committee on Drugs, a new substance is added to the list of the psychotropic convention. The T/1207. recommendation. The United Nations Committee on Drugs has decided to include three substances on the list of the Convention against the illicit marketing of narcotic drugs and psychoactive substances. These UN resolutions are international agreements, so it is essential that the Parliament recognises its binding scope and publish the text of the resolutions. I ask this House to support the adoption of the three legislative proposals. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-10-05-54	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Sigmond Barna Pál. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-10-05-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, As the three legislative proposals before us show, the international fight against drugs and awareness-modifying drugs has been taking place on several fronts for several decades with the participation of Hungary. Unfortunately, innovation does not avoid this area, so it is necessary to record new materials in these conventions from time to time. Accordingly, two substances were included in the first list of the United Nations Drugs Committee in the Single Drug Convention. Chapter II of the Convention on Psychotropic Substances a new substance has been added to the list. In addition, the Committee has decided to include three substances in list I of the Convention against the illicit marketing of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances within the United Nations. Dear House, The Fidesz parliamentary group supports the adoption of the legislative proposals before us. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-10-05-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Ms Zita Gurmai. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2022-10-05-57	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Dear fellow Members, He spoke of three legislative proposals, Mr. Secretary of State. Really very briefly about the content of each of them, confirming what the Secretary of State said. In the case of the first bill, the United Nations Committee on Drugs held its 65th session on 14-18 March 2022 and decided to include the substances bromphine and methonitazene on the list of the single drug convention. It is clear here that those who are experts in this regard know that the United Nations Committee on Drugs meets annually in Vienna, where, in addition to the formation of international drug policy, it can determine which substances should be subject to international control. The UN conventions on drugs classify drugs and psychotropic substances on the basis of their health hazard, risk of abuse, therapeutic value and list drugs in four lists. The two substances listed above have been listed in List I, which means that according to the Committee, they can be used for abuse and have harmful effects or can be converted into drugs. According to the Convention, States Parties have an obligation to take the legislative measures necessary to bring their provisions into force and to implement them in their respective territories. The other is T/1206. Bill No. 1. It is clear here that I will not repeat the above mentioned material in Annex II. Listed and it is clear that under the Convention, States Parties have an obligation to take the legislative measures necessary to bring their provisions into force and to implement them in their respective territories. And the third bill is: at the meeting of the United Nations Committee on Drugs on 16 March 2022, at the 65/4-6. It also included substances 4-AP, 1-boc-4-AP and norfentanyl in list I of the United Nations Convention against the illicit marketing of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. It is clear that these three substances, which I have just mentioned, were listed in List I, which means that, according to the Committee, these are psychotropic substances that could be used for abuse, have harmful effects or can be converted to drugs, as I mentioned earlier. These decisions have not yet been recognised by our country, and it is therefore necessary to amend the law on the publication of the Convention against the illicit marketing of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances in Vienna on 20 December 1988. All three legislative proposals, i.e. T/1205, T/1206. and T/1207 will be supported by the Hungarian Socialist Party after careful preparation. Thank you very much, Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, fellow Members, for listening.
u2022-10-05-58	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr István Hollik. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-10-05-59	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, We are living in times when there is already a question of evidence, questioning the fact that the mother is a woman, the father is a man, in the European Parliament they decide that men can have birth. So I am pleased to see that there is an evidence here that the drugs must be combated, and therefore everything must be done that the Hungarian Parliament does not question. In this, it seems that there is a national unity, at least, as I have seen from the words of Mrs Gurmai Zita, the opposition also supports this proposal, so it is glad that we do not at least question this evidence. Of course, the Christian Democratic People's Party is also committed to the fight against drugs, which is why, along with Fidesz, these three proposals will be supported by the Christian Democratic People's Party. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-10-05-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Róbert Dudás. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-10-05-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, I think all the dates, all the formulas, everything were in the previous speeches, especially those mentioned by Zita Gurmai. Congressman Hollik mentioned that it would be evident, and now it seems obvious that all Members, all factions, all parties will accept it. I believe that any organisation that deals with this issue from the UN through the Union is indeed an evidence to them that we need to be positive in this. We must condemn and do everything we can to ensure that more substances are placed on the ban list and that consumption, distribution and all related things are contained. I believe that, in addition to the plenary session of the Hungarian Parliament, the committees have also been able to agree on this issue in recent years, so I am sure that this is what is going to happen at the moment. At the same time, however, I would like to draw the attention of all honourable Members and gentlemen to the fact that, by making a decision in Parliament, we say yes, we are pressing a button, in theory, we are dealing with this subject, although it is very important, in my view the practical side is at least as much, if not more important. I would like to point out, Mr Secretary of State, that every year we are submitting budgetary amendments to this area, or we are putting forward a proposal for a decision, which is aimed at this area and which is aimed at addressing it not only in theory but also in practice, trying to reduce consumption and dissemination, as I have already said. [[12.40]] Today, the number of drug users is very high. Even though the list of illicit drugs is constantly growing, the measures cannot follow the entry of new drugs into the market. I would like to point out here that it has been mentioned that the organisation whose decisions we are trying to incorporate into the Hungarian legal order is meeting annually in Vienna. On the one hand, it is commendable that he meets every year, but on the other hand, if an organisation of this kind meets at a fixed time every year just to make you understand, Mr Secretary, I am trying to point out that distributors and makers do not rest in a year, so they may have a step advantage. There is a need for continuous follow-up, continuous work, and, if necessary, these declarations should not be brought here every year, but even more frequently. It is very important that these statistics show that more and more users are under the age of 18 and even the whole child. In the remote and backward settlements, the use of drugs made communities dependent, destroyed families, and young lives were wasted all over the country. From this point of view, we have proposed in the form of a budgetary amendment that a programme should be established in which the National Police Headquarters can strengthen its drug prevention line with the involvement of civil society organisations. It is of particular importance that they reach all primary and secondary schools to give lectures on the dangers of drug use. I am convinced that it is not enough to deal with the problem, which is very important, but then you will have to deal with a situation. Prevention is at least as high if it is not necessary to place greater emphasis on it. I would like to suggest that, if, in the future, we will, on the opposition side, on the part of Jobbik, and I am sure that we will continue to submit proposals for decisions on this subject, then they will be accepted, but at least considered, because believe me, we have raised a number of important issues that have been swept down and then brought back on your part in a subsequent form. Believe me, we want what's right. It is natural for us to support this bill. And in the end, I would like to point out that there is a great deal of emphasis on prevention. I ask you to put more emphasis on this, and to be in contact with all organisations, if necessary, to set up new associations that are trying to prevent drug use from becoming more restrictive in Hungary, because although we are now in the Hungarian Parliament, this is a big problem in Hungary, and this is also a big problem for Hungarian people, but otherwise we are facing a global problem. Thank you very much.
u2022-10-05-62	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I respectfully ask my fellow Members that someone wishes to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Mr Barna Pál Zsigmond spoke again. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-10-05-63	Mr President, I would like to respond very briefly to the words of Mr Dudás, who agrees with our policy. I would like to remind you that in the election campaign, the left-wing Prime Minister candidate spoke about drug liberalisation, and there are parties to the left-wing cooperation that have represented this position several times. Perhaps it would be appropriate for us to agree among ourselves on the position of the left on this issue. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Discuss this with the left.]] But I'm glad to hear you've just changed your position. I would like to remind you that, in recent years, the national government has tightened the criminal code and that we are also investing much more resources in prevention than before. From 2018, the school social support network became available to all children. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-05-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. Once again, I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The joint general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Péter Takács, Secretary of State, if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. Péter Takács: Yes.]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-10-05-65	Mr President, Dear House, I would respond to Mr Honky's words, but unfortunately he has already left, but I will do so. Firstly, I thank the groups for their support on a professional basis. For information I would like to say that Hungary's Government has spent some EU and partly Hungarian funds on prevention in the past government period of HUF 13 billion. We specialized in the school programme of settlements in need of catching up. From 2016 we will do this continuously through the EMMI through several cycles under the leadership of the Hungarian Addictological Society. The importance of prevention cannot be emphasized. In the future, the Ministry of the Interior would treat the problems of smoking, alcohol consumption, drug abuse and other addictions in a holistic way, together, in line with the most modern international trends. That's what we can promise. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-05-66	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment proposals can be submitted on Thursday, which is 16:00 tomorrow. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that two have applied for a post- Agenda address. First, I give the floor to Congressman Brenner Koloman of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-10-05-67	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Culture is a national foundation. I think it is precisely in this extremely difficult time, in this difficult economic and social crisis, in which all Hungarian citizens at present feel that when the past 12 years of Fidesz one-party overpowering Patymkin is collapsing, it is especially important for us as a responsible conservative party to say that, even in this difficult period, Hungarian culture deserves the priority support, because we are fighting for it. It is no coincidence that I have already submitted to the budget the amendments that I have made, for example, to raise the budget of the National Cultural Fund. Unfortunately, this has been swept off the table by the Fidesz majority of governments, although let's face it, especially in smaller settlements, the proposals that support local communities and traditional associations play a very important role. Moreover, if we put this in a slightly more general picture, the bleeding of the municipalities, which was already peaked on the part of the Fidesz one-party superpower during the pandemic period, has led to the fact that some settlements simply do not have a source of culture, as they face very serious social and other difficulties, which make it virtually impossible to support cultural managers that are otherwise important. What Fidesz thinks about the day laborers of culture, I think, is also obvious from the way a archivist leader told me a story. According to this, he was summoned to the Ministry, and a young man with a fidesz tube pants asked him what the archives were actually doing, and to write him a half-page piece of this by tomorrow. So here is the cultural policy of the alleged national government. Let me mention Szilárd Demeter's name in this context. It is a shame, a shame that such a man can remain in Hungarian public life to this day. Let's get this straight. I called upon him to leave when he financed a programme of PIM, Petőfi Literature Museum, in which they joked about the elimination of Germanism. Then it became Europe's gas chamber, and so on, to quote the fidesz cultural pope. It is a shame and a shame that such a man shares the money in Hungarian culture to this day, about whom the former director, Gergely Próhle, said that he was replaced from the head of the Petőfi Literature Museum because Fidesz took in the far right. No, dear fellow Fidesz comrades, the Fidesz, along with its far-right satellite party, our Mi-Haza. [[12.50]] I would also like to take a concrete measure here in my post- Agenda comment, which shows that, even in this crisis, you will not only support Hungarian culture, but also take it away from Hungarian citizens. The municipality of Vác would like to keep the building in Káptalan utca, in which there are also municipal apartments, and on the other hand to renovate the Greek Church. What does your government do? On the one hand, it seems that the building in Káptalan Street, its ownership, is being transferred to the so-called Dunakanyari Defence Association Foundation, and it can be seen who is the head of this foundation, and which Fidesz State Secretary belongs to, and secondly, the building of the Greek church in Vác, which was also included in the renovation program of the Baroque downtown, and that it would like to be owned free of charge by the Orthodox Exarchate of the Universal Patriarchate of Constantinople in Hungary. I hope that all the colleagues present, let's say, have tried to say the name of this church once. Such a loss of property is supported by the Fidesz pseudo-national and pseudo-Christian government. For us, who know as conservative parties that culture is a national foundation and must be sacrificed even at this difficult time, we know that in this period of time, it is the conservative crisis management that is to be given to education, health and Hungarian culture, because it is the 21st century. In the centuries of knowledge and information, without the fabric of culture, the community of Hungarian citizens, which we call Hungary, is falling apart. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2022-10-05-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát also applied for the post-meeting speech from the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-10-05-69	Mr President, Dear House, Today, opposition representatives have received more reprimands on the government side as to why they are not constantly in the Chamber. The fact is that now, when I want to talk about a national issue of fate, two of my pro-government fellow Members are in the Chamber, they will hear that a certain measurement, according to certain statistics, may have happened in Budapest, that the average rent is already above HUF 200,000, so they have issued HUF 201 thousand. Obviously, the extra rent is still applicable, and in the coming months, this extra rent is likely to reach altitudes that we are not even thinking about yet. It is quite amazing that this government has allowed the housing cataclysm to spread over more than 12 years, which, by the way, contributed to the pressure of many Hungarian families abroad, so that the families concerned, although they wanted to, could not thrive in their homeland, because we should not forget that, in addition to the humiliatingly low wage level, the second emigration factor is usually due to housing difficulties, in particular a sense of life that a young person living in typical circumstances does not feel able to obtain an independent home, to obtain an independent housing within a reasonable period of time. This is why Fidesz's housing policy has failed, because they focus almost exclusively on those who can acquire independent property in some way or with enough wealth or family assistance, but they are able to get their own apartments, but they forget about the hundreds of thousands of people who have had difficulties getting their own shares of a bank loan, especially since this government stopped state support for housing savings, led them out, and although at the time he made a promise that instead he would bring in a different kind of construction, this is not available to the large masses until today. That's why we've been calling on the government for a long time, and we're waiting for the concept, the program as a housing program, that's what it's all about, that we have to build apartments with a large public background, and the budget provides the resources for this. Obviously, then the municipalities, as one of your best localities, could take care of it and manage it as a good farmer, a responsible farmer at all. I would like to stress that if it is a rental scheme, it must not be satisfied with a social leg, it is not a social programme, it is not a welfare programme. Have a social leg, a social point system that allows you to benefit many children, teachers, and workers in sectors of national strategic importance without whom this country cannot operate on a daily basis. Have such a leg, but also allow a young couple in a completely normal life situation to save the ten years that, if necessary, should have a bank loan to push their family or family expansion plans forward. If we are serious about prosperity in the homeland, then these years must be saved for young Hungarians. There should be at least 5 to 10 thousand apartments per year and long professional debates on the conditions under which those affected will be able to acquire their own housing, or buy their own rentals at cost, so that their secondary market cannot be developed, or speculators and investors in this area will not be mistaken. If we develop this guarantee system, we can make it available to future taxpayers so that they do not have to migrate abroad, so anyone who wants to and wants to thrive in this country can do so in Hungary. Therefore, Jobbik will put a number of relevant housing proposals on the table in the coming weeks and months. But there's an entry category of a 1.0. So if we want to talk about reducing housing problems, achieving any results in the housing market, evictions must be stopped, so eviction moratorium should be announced, and enforcement bans of 33, 50 percent or less should not be allowed to apply to the income required for a basic livelihood, whether it is a working person or a small pensioner. Therefore, we have a fundamental social network obligation, but above all, we must open the rental scheme to everyone, and in all respects subject to the objectives of demographic and domestic prosperity. That's the best we can do. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2022-10-05-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will meet next week at 11 a.m. on Monday. Meeting day's closed. I wish you all a good day and a happy home.
