u2022-10-27-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 9th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and Dezső Liberty will be here to assist me. Welcome to everyone who's been monitoring our work today. The general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of San Marino on the publication of an agreement on the promotion and mutual protection of investments is now taking place. Government referral T/1615. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now give the floor to Mr Azbej Tristan, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-10-27-1	[[No sound.]] Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament,
u2022-10-27-2	[[No sound.]] Wait a minute, Mr. Secretary, because the sound doesn't seem to be on with you. Did you put your card in?
u2022-10-27-3	[[With a loudspeaker.]] In, in.
u2022-10-27-4	[[No sound.]] There's a voice now. Here you go, then. That's where the clock starts.
u2022-10-27-5	Thank you again for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill before you adds a new element to the legislative framework for economic relations between Hungary and the Republic of San Marino. The aim of the agreement to be announced is to promote bilateral economic relations between the two countries, including investment relations, and to make the investment environment safer and more favourable. The agreement concerns investments made by investors from both countries in each other's territory. The agreement therefore serves the protection and legal certainty of Hungarian investors established in the Republic of San Marino on a reciprocal basis. The agreement ensures reciprocity, which does not require any legislative amendment from Hungary, as our legislation guarantees the same treatment as domestic companies for foreign investors and their investments established in Hungary. The external economic strategic objective of Hungary's Government is to encourage foreign investments by Hungarian companies and to balance the profits generated there with the profits exported by foreign investors. The implementation of this strategy is based, inter alia, on the establishment of bilateral investment protection agreements, such as the agreement between Hungary and the Republic of San Marino. Since the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty in 2009, foreign direct investment has been part of the common commercial policy within the European Union. This means that the Member States of the European Union may conclude an investment protection agreement with other countries if the European Commission has given its approval under the necessary national authorisation. In the case of the agreement between Hungary and the Republic of San Marino, this was done and it was signed on 21 September 2022. The Treaty was therefore concluded on the basis of the guidelines of the European Union and with its approval. Dear House, One of the main functions of the agreement is to provide investors in both countries with legal guarantees to protect their investments. In particular, it is important for investors to ensure fair and impartial settlement of any disputes that may arise against the State. Thanks to this agreement, Hungarian investors and their investments can expect international legal protection when resolving any disputes. The agreement complies with the content requirements set by international standards. The agreement contains a number of guarantee elements for companies investing abroad. This includes, inter alia, the principle of non-discrimination and the principle of maximum benefit and the principle of national treatment. Investment protection agreements, including this agreement, provide a way to resolve disputes between the investor and the State. This provision constitutes the main guarantee for investors and therefore forms part of any investment protection agreement. At the same time, the modern provisions of the agreement put the possibility of foreign investors being sued against Hungary within an appropriate legal framework. Dear Parliament, We expect the conclusion of the agreement to help the development of economic and investment relations between Hungary and the Republic of San Marino by protecting investors. I would ask the honourable Members to accept the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-27-6	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Károly Panczél. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-10-27-7	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Finally, Thursday we were looking forward to this so Thursday's meeting could begin! Dear Parliament, The pandemic and the Russian-Ukrainian conflict in our neighbourhood have shown that international cooperation based on mutual respect is more needed than ever before, even if in this case it is a mini-state and Hungary's relationship, it is still very important. San Marino is proud of its national identity, its cultural, historical and religious heritage, and I would like to say in brackets that it is a republic of 1700 years, and San Marino does not want to give up on this and is also a country sensitive to the cause of national minorities. We have been able to establish an alliance with them on important issues for Hungary, and the closer we cooperate with San Marino, the more our country, Hungary, will benefit from it. Our cooperation with this proposal can now take a new stage in the development of economic relations between the two countries, in particular by making the conditions for investment activities in each other's territory more favourable and secure, and by encouraging investment, as the Secretary of State said in his exposé. It is very important that investors in the two countries are assured that the legal elements that protect their investments are guaranteed, so that the parties can settle their disagreements in a fair and impartial procedure, even against the State, in the event of a dispute on the basis of the agreement. Through such guarantees and similar guarantees, I think we can strengthen our international cooperation, our relationship with San Marino, which can be extremely beneficial for Hungary as well. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has been said, I ask that you support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-27-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Zsolt Gréczy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[15.30]]
u2022-10-27-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I would add that it is of the utmost importance for the Democratic Coalition to increase our international relations and to be economically fruitful on a reciprocal basis, including for Hungary, of course. However, while we are talking about a diplomatic step or an economic step here, I must say that it would really strengthen Hungary's diplomatic relations if, for example, the representatives of Fidesz did not call the German Chancellor corrupt or, for example, if he put the Swedish and Finnish NATO accession on the agenda of the Parliament. This would significantly improve Hungary's international positions. Finally, let me respond to the words of my fellow Member, Mr Panczél. He used the expression "Russian-Ukrainian conflict." This term divides responsibility 50-50 percent. I would like to note that Russia has attacked an independent state, Ukraine. That's correct, I think that's the term. Cooperation with the Republic of San Marino is, of course, supported by the Democratic Coalition. Thank you very much.
u2022-10-27-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll open the debate. I am asking my fellow Members, who would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Azbej Tristan, State Secretary, if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, We now have a general debate on the bill to amend certain transport laws until closure. Government referral T/1619. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now give the floor to Mr Dávid Vitézy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Technology and Industry, author of the item on the agenda, who will have this sermon here. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-10-27-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Transport is an essential sector of the economy, as it includes a complex network of public and private enterprises. This ensures citizens' mobility, easier and faster movement of goods and services. To ensure this, we need to keep track of the legislative environment and adapt it to our changing lives. This is the aim of the bill before us, namely to transpose the necessary legislative changes in the field of rail, shipping, road and air transport through the legislation in force and to fulfil the necessary EU legal harmonisation obligations. Allow me to explain the most important amendments without the need for completeness. The legal bases for the 1988 Road Transport Act I mainly contain clarification for the application of the law. In the course of road inspections, it should be possible to verify the posting declarations of Hungarian drivers employed as workers posted to Hungary by an economic operator established in the territory of another Member State, and these persons of Hungarian nationality should qualify as posted workers in Hungary under the relevant European Union law. As far as the aviation sector is concerned, the necessary changes were made to the enforcement issues raised in the context of the security background checks on civil aviation workers and to the changes to the relevant EU legislation. The primary objective of the security background check is to prevent illegal activities against air transport and to ensure the smooth functioning of the industry. In this context, it is of particular importance not to involve persons in the air industry who may be identified as a statutory risk factor, such as terrorist risk or other exclusion conditions. It is essential that, in the context of air transport, only integrity persons who are not a threat to aviation safety, the social and economic stability of Hungary and the European Union are concerned. Today, in the light of climate change and the re-evaluation of the role of the railway at all, it is clear that the railway is not only a means of transport for the past but also for the future, as a means of transport on the ground that is most sustainable and efficient. Allow me to briefly remember that tomorrow will be 145 years ago, one of the oldest railway stations in Budapest, the Nyugati railway station, which is one of the most beautiful railway stations in the world, if not the most beautiful. However, rail transport can be proud not only of its 145-year past, but also of its future in Hungary, because on many lines the development of the railway network, the improvement and improvement of rail services are taking place, and the result can be seen in the number of passengers. For example, we can be glad that 3 million people have used the trains in Lake Balaton this summer, and they have used the trains in 3 million travels. This has been the highest since the change of regime. The 2005 CLXXXIII on rail transport The amendment of law establishes the legal basis for concluding cooperation agreements with the national railway safety authorities of the border States and provides for the possibility of imposing an administrative fine in the event of failure to comply with the reporting obligation laid down by law. This is also an obligation transferred from EU law. We also specify the legal conditions for the non-influenced operation of the Rail Track Capacity Distribution Organisation and the establishment of an optimised capacity-use plan for timetable-based infrastructure development, as well as the detailed rules for the notification of railway activities, as well as the powers of the Railway Technical Committee. An optimal capacity utilisation plan, which is a strategic new scheduling tool, will be published. Our aim is to be a rail timetable concept for 5 years, 10 years, 15 years ahead, and every infrastructure development should be derived from the timetable, the conceptual agenda to be achieved, there and build what is necessary to offer the best timetable for passengers and freight forwarders, but not to build tracks that are not needed in the long term. In the same way, we propose to amend the Passenger Transport Services Act. On the basis of the decision taken at the Parliament's spring session, a major, perhaps one of the most significant, transformations since the change of regime was launched by the establishment of a national transport organizer, which coordinates rail bus services, and by centralising the five-placed tasks so far, it ensures that a single bus and rail timetable is fully coordinated throughout the country and that a fully-fledged, uniform tariff system is in place, so that both tickets and season tickets, MÁV, Volán, GYSEV or HÉV services can be used in a uniform manner. It is proposed that the national transport operator, which was established from 1 January 2023, enters into public passenger service contracts and track operation contracts, as well as customer cooperation agreements, on the customer side. Typically, they have been created with local authorities and will be responsible for developing and taking measures to ensure non-discriminatory access to railway rolling stock in accordance with the relevant EU Regulation. I would like to point out here that the government has decided to change Hungary's long-distance InterCity fleet completely. In order to achieve this, to introduce a new model, so that we can travel with modern, air-conditioned, comfortable new InterCity trains across the country in a few years, this amendment is necessary. This will put the organisation of Community public transport services by bus and rail on a new basis. The government's objective is clear, in a uniform way throughout the country, to operate inter-urban bus and rail public services, both in terms of tariffs, timetables and all other features of the service. In addition, the amendment ensures compliance with the provisions of the Act on Information Self-determination and Freedom of Information and GDPR in the context of taxiing, in the context of the necessary data recordings to be carried out by transport operators and other taxi undertakings, and extends the system of rail discounts for workers of the national transport operator. [[15.40]] Finally, it is an important change to introduce legislative amendments that are relevant to the so-called EETS, i.e. the European electronic toll service. This, in turn, ensures the pan-European charging interoperability for trucks and other toll-payers, so that they can pay their toll to several Member States at the same time in the case of a cross-border transport. In view of all this, I ask all the factions of the Parliament to support the amendment of the transport laws. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-10-27-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr Attila Barcza, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-10-27-13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, As you have heard in the expozee, the purpose of the bill amending certain transport laws on the table of this House is to transpose the necessary legislative amendments in the field of rail, shipping, road and air transport into the existing legislation. The bill includes amendments to several laws, some of which I would like to highlight in my speech as a speaker. As part of the amendment to the road transport legislation, there is a legal clarification aimed at clarifying the rules of the Hungarian drivers employed as posted workers and the rules of posting. It is proposed that prior authorisation by the transport authority is required for the construction, modification and entry into service of the vehicle. As far as road transport is concerned, it is important to note that since 2010 the government has paid particular attention to the development of the Hungarian road network. At the launch of the 3200 billion HUF road programme, half of the Hungarian settlements and nearly three quarters of the inhabitants had the opportunity to reach a motorway within half an hour. For example, after faster and more convenient access between Sopron and the priority economic areas, rural cities set out the task of designing and building national rings. Dear House, The purpose of the amendment of the Aviation Act is to clarify and define the provisions on security background control in the light of the issues of law enforcement raised in the context of the security background checks on civil aviation workers, as well as the change in the relevant EU legislation, as well as the provision of other legal clarifications in the application of the law. The Railway Transport Act introduces the concept of the examiner, the scope of recommendations to be issued by the Railway Technical Commission is clarified, as well as the rules on compensation for job seekers. The rail network capacity distribution organisation shall draw up a long-term capacity-use plan for the establishment of timetable-based track development conditions and shall make the plan publicly available in all cases as part of the network business rules. It is important to note that rail development in Hungary has continued on a large scale in recent years. Hungary's central budget is HUF 93 billion in 2018, HUF 98 billion in 19 and HUF 106 billion in 2020 and HUF 127 billion in 2021, and HUF 130 billion in 2022, despite the difficult economic situation, for the operation and development of the Hungarian railway infrastructure. In 2021-2022 the roof structure of Budapest-Nyugati Railway Station was restored with a historic request; we heard about it here in the Expoze. In 2022, due to the increase in Ukrainian-Hungarian rail traffic, the government provided HUF 12.4 billion for the renewal of the railway network in the area of Zahony. The preparation of the tunnel connecting Budapest-South and Budapest-Nyugati railway stations started in 2020. At the Danube Tunnel, the railway lines from the eastern and western parts of Hungary and the agglomeration of the capital can be connected under the centre of Budapest at what price, at which location, at what depth and at what technical design it is possible to double the capacity of the railway network in Budapest today, thus also examining the benefits that can be achieved. We have upgraded 600 kilometers of railway track over the past ten years, of which nearly 336 kilometers of electrification have taken place. Between 2019 and 2023, 474 km of railway line will be renovated and 165 km of railway line electrified. Over the last decade, the central traffic control system has been built in several phases, and several bridges, stations and stops have been renovated. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up, the bill before us contains provisions that must be supported, so I ask my fellow Members to support the proposal in the light of what has been said, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-10-27-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Zsolt Gréczy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-10-27-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, All initiatives that bring about harmonisation of EU law are welcomed and fundamentally supported by the Democratic Coalition. However, in every situation, I must also say that we do not always have reason to be happy, for example, when we are talking about the road network, and a few months ago, a private company was just established with some friends from the Prime Minister's immediate environment, which took over the right to grant concessions for the construction and maintenance of Hungarian motorways for the next 35 years, and a company that was set up just a few months ago received this. Of course, the names of Lőrinc Mészáros and László Szíyi had to be found in this. A total of 1237 km of motorway management and 900 employees of the Hungarian Road were taken over by a company formed a few months ago from the State Road Manager. Clearly, it is not difficult to connect with the fact that, in this brutal inflation situation, the motorway sticker fees have been immediately increased. Any sticker we're talking about, there's been a significant price increase. These funds are now flowing directly into the environment of Viktor Orbán. At the same time, I would also like to note that, and this should be noted in the Parliament's minutes, the vast majority of this motorway network was built under the Gyurcsány government, and I am pleased that we have managed to enrich Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2022-10-27-16	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr István Hollik. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-10-27-17	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I had a hunch that the representatives of the left would not be able to resist the temptation to comment on the bill that had nothing to do with the proposal before us. But we've seen this in the debate on last night's bill this morning, so there's no surprises in that. And I think that Mr Secretary of State has touched on all the points relevant to the bill, which was supplemented by my fellow Member Attila Barcza, so in order to save all our time, I would just like to say that the KDNP faction supports this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-10-27-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr János Bencze. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-10-27-19	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, We have tried to deal with the proposal from a professional point of view, and we see the professional work in it, which has actually happened, but I would like to point out that as a theoretical concept, we are able to handle it only because as long as the Hungarian road network is in such a state of shame, we should not talk about Hungarian transport or road. But we hope that it will be better, and I would recommend the main road 52, where there is also a Fidesz Member of Parliament, or even the Hungarian side road network, and I recommend you all access. And if they do, they'll see why the concept is theoretical. Another reason is that a lot of development, road development, which we are very, very sorry for, has been pulled from the development in view of the Hungarian livelihood crisis and so-called economic disaster. I very much hope that they will be achieved in a foreseeable time, because only a normal, good transport concept can be implemented, which has its foundations laid if we have a road network and a railway network. [[15.50]] And then let's get those professional parts of the material that we've been going through, and we've been trying to highlight them, and we thought they were worth talking about this time. I am particularly pleased with something, and I am particularly pleased with the Hungarian vet society, to which I belong: this is 4. §, which facilitates the entry into service or even the rebuilding of vehicles of museum importance. I would like to thank you for this on behalf of the entire Hungarian veteran and hobby vehicle society. This is a very serious professional help, and we can see from this that professionals have also worked on the material. However, there are some points that we cannot accept, and here I would mention the 29th. § 1. This is specifically about rail transport and procedural and supervisory fees. Here we have found sums that have increased by 2.5 times, which we cannot accept, because rail transport is a priority in Jobbik's concept, and we imagine it as one of the main arteries of modern European transport, where heavy goods can be moved effectively, even as the present shows, with the involvement of private rail companies, but mainly with public involvement. So the 29th. § is one that we can't accept, and the other is 35. I'll tell you with honor, we just couldn't place it. We understand that EU harmonisation, we understand that there is a need to involve the private sector in many places, but what we have read from it is that the services that would not necessarily be won by the State Volánbusz and that things would be operated in all regions, for example, Volánbus sites should be bought by the company in the tender. So we consider this to be detrimental to fair competition itself, and therefore we cannot accept it. And by the way, I could close this serious restriction on competition with a juicy barbecue so that it doesn't become Soros again, because I don't want to close it with it, so I would recommend both 29 and 35 for consideration, that we discuss it again, talk it over, whether we take it out or change it. We can agree with the rest of it for the most part. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2022-10-27-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I will now open the debate. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Dávid Vitézy, that he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-10-27-21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Thank you to all the factions that supported the proposals contained in the bill. I would only respond very briefly to what has been said. On the one hand, I can assure Mr Gréczy that all toll and toll revenue is the revenue of the central budget in Hungary; this is true, and there has been no change in that. The development of the motorway network will continue to be the government's objective according to the agreed road network development plans. A very significant result has been achieved over the past 12 years by achieving a number of elements to close the two-track relationship between the county seats and the ring elements twice, but because there are still network gaps, this work needs to continue. To Mr Bencze's points: supervisory fees are basically used to ensure that the railway authority's staff, who have to carry out on-the-spot checks very often, may also incur significant cost items in relation to their work and ensure that railway safety is always ensured to cover their work. Such supervisory fees are never paid directly by citizens, this is the charge to be paid by railway companies; they have not changed since 2013 and therefore need to be amended. In the other case, it is precisely fair competition that when services provided by Volánbusz are subject to mandatory competitive tendering under EU regulations and domestic legislation, we ensure equal access to premises and bus stations. This guarantees that this type of procedure complies with EU and domestic legislation. Thank you very much for supporting the legislative proposal. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-10-27-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, The general discussion of the bill on the provisions relating to the successful implementation of Hungarian appearance at the World Exhibition in Osaka in 2025 until its closure. Government referral T/1611. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now give the floor to State Secretary Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-10-27-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The purpose of the legislative amendment on the agenda is the next World Exhibition and the participation of our country in this event. The World Exhibition will be held in Osaka, Japan, between April and October 2025. Its significance is well indicated that 30 million visitors are expected during the six months of the exhibition with the participation of 150 countries and 25 international organisations. With the presence of Hungary at the world exhibition, we can strengthen the image of Hungary; we can strengthen our economic relations, and it is also a good opportunity to present our cultural values. The scope of the bill covers investment, ordering services and procurement related to investment. The presentation is intended by the government to contribute to ensuring that investments can be carried out on time, at a high level, in full compliance with the specific requirements set by the organizer, in accordance with local conditions. The bill assumes that appearance at the world exhibition is beneficial to the country and that contracts to be concluded are non-deferential contracts. In this context, it is important that the two and a half years remaining for the World Exhibition for the preparatory work for an event of this magnitude are considered to be a short period of time. The main point of the presentation is that in the administrative procedures and administrative procedures related to the implementation of the world exhibition, the administrative deadline is 10 days, and in the case of the administrative procedure, 5 days. On the basis of the bill, the director and conductor of the tasks related to Hungarian participation is the Hungarian Tourism Agency, as such the agency or other organisation designated in the decree of the government is entitled to use the negotiated procedure without notice established with extreme urgency in the case of public procurement procedures to be carried out in accordance with the specified point of the Public Procurement Act. I am sure that the organizing staff will do a work that will make everyone proud of the Hungarian exhibition and presence, regardless of which side of the horseshoe they sit on, despite the current debates. Dear House, It is not an issue, but I would like to thank the staff of the Parliament, the stenographers and the staff responsible for the meeting; they have been performing and maintaining their service since yesterday morning due to opposition obstruction. I do not know that the opposition Members who initiated the obstruction have done so, but I would certainly like to thank you for it. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-10-27-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Attila Barcza. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. (The chair was appointed by Dr. Lajos Oláh, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2022-10-27-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill on the provision relating to the successful implementation of the Hungarian appearance at the 2025 Osaka World Exhibition on the table of this House is to stimulate the economy and tourism and to create a pavilion of international quality capable of providing complex services for the Hungarian appearance at the 2025 Osaka World Exhibition and to carry out the organizational tasks necessary for Hungary's successful appearance at the World Exhibition, so this is a priority area. There is a high public interest in the appearance of Hungary at the World Exhibition 2025, for which contracts are considered non-deferential contracts, and the bill on provisions relating to the successful implementation of Hungarian appearance at the World Exhibition provides information on the implementation of these provisions, taking into account the fact that the remaining two and a half years until the World Exhibition is opened represent a very short period of time for this to be fully prepared. [[16.00]] Dear House, The World Exhibition, held every five years, is the world's most visited non-sports event. The World Exhibition will take place in Osaka, and as we have heard in the Expo, 30 million visitors are expected with the participation of 150 countries. Our country's participation in the exhibition is a unique opportunity, from a diplomatic, economic and tourist point of view. Our general goal is to foster and develop diplomatic, economic and cultural relations between Japan and Hungary, as well as to promote new economic cooperation, to develop trade relations and to strengthen country image. In addition to these goals, Hungary intends to place greater emphasis on exploiting the business potential of world exhibitions in the future. The Hungarian appearance at the World Exhibition offers a unique and prominent opportunity for the international expansion of innovative small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary. With the help of the business partnerships launched at the exhibition, it is possible to strengthen the economic relations of the Hungarian State regionally, to demonstrate the products and services of Hungarian companies widely, thus increasing the export performance of individual industries and increasing investor willingness. Participation will help to strengthen Hungary's tourist and economic positions in the East Asian region and at global level. Japan serves as a gateway to Asian markets, including China and the South East Asian Union of Nations. The importance of these is high, as we can talk about the fastest growing economies in the world. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, the success of Hungarian appearance at the World Exhibition in Osaka in 2025 is a national interest, which should also be supported by the available regulatory tools to support the implementation of the related organisational, investment and management tasks. We must accept this for Hungary's worthy appearance. In the context of Hungarian participation at the World Exhibition, the law ensures that the investments required to participate in the World Exhibition can be made on time, at a high level, in full compliance with the specific and specific requirements set by the organizer, adapted to specific local conditions. In the field of the World Exhibition, a pavilion is needed that represents the cultural and historical values of our country in the world's exhibition. On this basis, I would ask my fellow Members to support this bill, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-10-27-26	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome to the gym. I give the floor to Zsolt Gréczy, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-10-27-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Of course, Hungary's appearance at a world exhibition is important for all Hungarians. The Osaka World Exhibition can also be of particular importance in this respect. However, I must say that it is difficult for us to forget what happened at the Milan World Exhibition. For example, the Hungarian pavilion was seized for a while by the Italian authorities because the Hungarian party did not pay its Italian partner. After that, he continued with all kinds of criminal charges in Hungary, and the part called the Shaman drum carried me all over the country. Turns out his setup would cost even more than his original creation. It was shipped to Szombathely, then to Karcagra, and it would have cost the Hungarian taxpayers hundreds of millions more everywhere. In fact, there was a situation in Karcagon that when a journalist asked the mayor what was good, good, but what was happening here, he simply locked this particular journalist in the toilet. That's what the press reported. So I think that Hungary's reputation is worth more to all of us. The Osaka World Exhibition should be a worthy place for Hungarian culture and the presentation of Hungarian history, but preferably without corruption, theft and scandals. Thank you very much.
u2022-10-27-28	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to István Hollik, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-10-27-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. There are basically two reasons why we support Hungary's representation at the Osaka World Exhibition. On the one hand, because this has a great tradition in Hungary, as our country has been regularly participating in world exhibitions since 1855, even as part of the Monarchy, but later as an independent state. The other reason is that we consider all initiatives that strengthen national pride to be important and to be supported. We believe that a country cannot succeed without national pride. If there is national pride, then sooner or later every Hungarian person will have an individual sense of responsibility for his country. If you feel responsible for your country and do your job like this, then sooner or later you will be an achievement, and where there is performance and work, and eventually there will be success. So success is unimaginable without national self-esteem and national pride. We are convinced that manifesting at such a world exhibition will strengthen national pride. So for this reason, we also support the presentation and participation in the world exhibition. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-10-27-30	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Péter Balassa, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-10-27-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Colleagues! My speech would be a little longer and I would like to make some amendments to the Osaka World Exhibition. If you'll excuse me, fellow Members, I'd like to start with a quote from Vilmos Csányi. å The uniting force of every culture is that its members are the same in common values. The World Exhibition is an extraordinary event where every country can be represented, so it is a very good opportunity for our country to present its history, culture and values. However, for some reason, when it comes to such a spectacular and large event, the majority of Hungarians are reminded of the draining of money, of the promotion of private interests, of the lack of transparency and professionalism in the face of real nationalism. It's not a coincidence. We do not need to go far, let us think of the scandalous appearance of the 2015 Milan World Exhibition, against which the Faculty of Architecture of the Budapest University of Technology also voiced: an architectural parody leaning into giccs represents Hungary on an international stage. Or, in connection with the same world exhibition, the question of Sámandob also made it difficult, when Csaba Hende laid the foundation stone in Szombathely, saying that it would be placed there last, and finally, Sándor Fazekas wished to rebuild the Hungarian pavilion in the narrower country of former Minister for Rural Development. I note that this investment was also delayed, as the city received the necessary state aid only in February of this year. But let's leave it to the past, because participation in the World Exhibition in Dubai was not exactly free from the usual NER procedures. I am thinking, first of all, that the design and construction of the Hungarian pavilion in Dubai was entrusted not to just anyone, but to a well-known Fidesz-near enterprise, WHB-ÉPKAR Construction Ltd., the value of the contract was no less than HUF 10.6 billion. The costs only increased one by one, while the Hungarian pavilion in Dubai finally cost more than HUF 11 billion. Given that, according to the proposal, the government responsible for the operation will be the Hungarian Tourism Agency again, we have at least doubts that it will be different this time. Only because, in respect of the procurement procedures to be carried out in the context of project-related themes, concept drawings and concept export plans, the contracting authority is entitled to apply the negotiated procedure without notice established for extreme urgency. Obviously, this offers a greater opportunity to make money go away. Therefore, I have tabled an amendment in order to allow the procurement procedures for the project to take place only through an open procedure and to derogate from it only in exceptional justified, individual cases and only with the permission of the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office. So we can see that the Fidesz government has not so far organised the best way to participate in world exhibitions. As with the World Exhibition in Dubai in 2019, they are asking for a blank cheque for support. The main issues, as they usually do under the Fidesz government, will be decided in a government decree, by individual decision, excluding Parliament, professional organisations, and the saddest, Hungarian society as well. We know nothing about the plans, the main parameters of the construction, but not even the key issue, the budget. I am aware that in today's world it is difficult to plan ahead and plan costs for three years, but I ask the government to have a ceiling to which they stick and to ensure transparency. [[16.10]] Since the previous operation has fundamentally shaken confidence in the cleanliness of public life against many other public projects, I suggest that the Hungarian Tourism Agency should also open a separate interface on its website, where, in the chronological order of the public opinion, present all contract orders above one million forints in addition to the presentation of the contracting parties, indicating the object, time and consideration of the acquisition, together with the name of the real natural property of the companies, even during the course of the project and during the course of the project. [[Csaba Dömötör talks to István Hollik.]] Showing up at a global event, organizing it is no small task and no small responsibility, we are aware of that, but in 2025... I'd like to thank you for your attention, Mr. Secretary. Thank you. This will be especially true in 2025, since we are coming to the 1025th anniversary of the founding of the state. We feel, fellow Members, that there is a great deal at stake here for the topic, for the sight of the whole world to see what this means for us. I therefore propose that the concept of appearance be entrusted to the Hungarian people, that they write out a tender, which should be judged by a professional jury, and that the winner of the contest be supported. I would consider it particularly forward if primary and secondary school students and higher education students could participate in this project, as their ideas and plans lay the foundations for the future of Hungary so that the whole world can learn about Hungarians and spend the money won in the competition on excursions, dissemination of knowledge, development and IT tools. It would therefore be a legitimate need to plan transparently for such events, both in terms of the way in which the works are carried out, as well as in terms of the organisation of the works and the spending of public funds. It would also be expected that the public as well as the Parliament will be kept informed of the processes, costs, involving the profession and society, the society they will represent in 2025, Japan. I trust that my proposals will be accepted and that we will face a successful and successful event. A thousand-year-old state, proud Hungarians show up in Osaka! Thank you for your time. Thank you for your time.
u2022-10-27-32	Thank you, Congressman. There are two-minute speeches coming up, but no one's come forward. I do not see any requests for further contributions. I'm asking if anyone would like to comment. [[Csaba Dömötör on signal:]] Secretary of State has indicated you're welcome.
u2022-10-27-33	Very briefly, Mr President. Thank you for the floor. The laws clearly state which expenses must be made public, in what form and in what form, and the government regularly does so; the primary scene of this is the official side of the government. The proposals have been noted, and it will be possible, mutatis mutandis, in the committee section, to discuss this in detail by the representative ladies and gentlemen. Let me draw your attention to one thing, however, if you already consider the experience of past world exhibitions important: the Hungarian pavilion was visited at the last world exhibition by 1 million 88 thousand visitors from 194 countries of the world; 103 Hungarian companies were able to introduce themselves to this Expo in Dubai, and 28 Hungarian institutions visited the pavilion with the ability to negotiate bilaterally. So these two figures in themselves prove that the Hungarian pavilion was a good scene for strengthening Hungarian economic, cultural and tourism relations. And to say one more thing: it is also an important achievement that the Hungarian pavilion won a silver medal from the International Federation of World Exhibitions in the best presentation of the subject. So I would ask with respect that if we are talking about experience, you should also address these, or if you do not, we will do so. I hope that we can agree that this is an initiative that serves the country's interests well. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-27-34	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I have closed the general debate, and Mr State Secretary, on behalf of the rapporteur, has just said his thoughts. Dear Parliament, The amendments could be tabled by 16:00 today, so the deadline for submitting the amendments was 14 minutes ago. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Attila Stojka, representing Fidesz, applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "Hungarian Heroes." I'll give you the floor in five minutes. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-10-27-35	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you for the floor. Only peoples, communities, who survive, survive difficulties that belong together. Only those who have a common past, shared values and culture feel together, but especially their role models and heroes. When it comes to Gypsyism, most people think of a rich culture of the Roma, rightly, but there is little mention of ordinary heroes, Gypsy heroes who have worked and worked every day to achieve the growth of this country, this nation. Our job is to show these people their work, sometimes remember and remind people that our heroes have nurtured the basic values and built our future on these basic values. When we launched a travelling exhibition together with the Public Foundation for Research of Central and Eastern European History and Society, which maintains the House of Terror Museum, together with the Hungarian Gypsy heroes, we wanted to present the heroes of the Hungarian Gypsy during the 1956 Revolution and the system change throughout the country. This exhibition was visible in all parts of the country, in villages, in small towns, but also in county chairs. Tens of thousands of people have seen the 25 settlements of the country in the last six months, for whom it has become clear that Gypsy and Hungarians have shared a common destiny for many years. They serve their country with their talents, their will, their work and, if necessary, their lives, because they are linked by their sense of responsibility for their community and their will to do so. Béla Puczi, the hero of the black March in Marosvásárhely in 1990, pianist György Cziffra, composer Béla Szakcsi Lakatos, poetic translator József Choli Daróczi or painter István Szentandrássy and Tamás Péli just to mention some of the names of those who serve as examples for future generations and whose work and value creation we have an obligation to continue in this way. When we look at this exhibition, we stop in front of a tableau, and we read the few sentences, the short messages that appear on them, we realize that there is one thing in each of them in common: despite the difficulties and failures, each of them has done their work with heart and soul, and this heart and soul have also worked in those people who created this exhibition, because without heart and soul nothing works. Dear Parliament, More than 30 years after the change of regime, we can finally say that we have more heroes than we've forgotten as examples. For decades, Gypsyism has been deprived of the expression of Hungarianism. When we chose a completely different path in 2010, together, together, this country created an unprecedented unity, the Roma no longer have to choose between identities. Their Romaness is an added value to their Hungarianness, and this is also reflected in culture. Such initiatives, such as the, Together, free exhibition, make it clear to everyone that the cultural richness of Gypsy is a universal part of Hungarian culture. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-10-27-36	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to János Bencze, from Jobbik's group, after the agenda, with the title "What have they given us..."? Here you go, Congressman. [[16.20]]
u2022-10-27-37	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, The quote comes from a classic movie where a group gathers, they are political in a way, and they ask the question: what did the Romans give us? They simply try to bring back negative things, what the Romans have given us, and they gain nothing at the end. This cannot be said about today's Hungarian reality. If I asked the average Hungarian citizen either in the countryside or in the city what Fidesz gave us in the 12 years of Fidesz, we would be able to list a lot of negatives, the essence of which appeared to us this year. What am I talking about? In contrast to propaganda, the Hungarian road network, which was mentioned earlier, is in a catastrophic state. Getting from A to B, especially on the rural road network, requires a disaster tour, an SUV, elsewhere the Budapest-Bamako Rali is organized. So Fidesz has given propaganda and a catastrophic road network to the road network over the past 12 years, and I mentioned the main road 52, but I could say the Fürged-Tamás liaison road, countless rural side roads from Simontorny to Sárszentlőrinc. Practical experience, I recommend to my fellow Members, who represent in this region, on the part of the government, to go through it. What did they give the families? A crisis of opportunity, an economic crisis, because what we have now is the result of the past 12 years. Today, a Hungarian family, if only going out for gas, encounters a restriction that maximizes fuel in 50 liters. They'll survive this. He goes to the store, buys government-priced sugar, government-priced flour, or receives limited quantities, or doesn't get any. So the reality is, instead of real help, families received propaganda again. Not to mention, these families are raising children, schooling them, and at the end of the month, they're counting money against propaganda on what else they're gonna get. What did they give the elderly? What did Fidesz give the elderly? He helped them, and I can tell you this: it is easier to carry home the shopping basket, because due to the insane inflation that is affecting Hungary, today's Hungarian pensions have to be very thought out about what they are buying. Numerous elderly citizens complained to me about the countryside, but also to cities that they had livelihood problems during the last week of the month. You can tell by what you've given, you've given the elderly a living problem, because they can buy the cheapest food with the families, and they have to pull it out of it until the end of the month. So thank you very much, they got propaganda. We can look at Hungary in many places, so to speak, everywhere we go, everywhere we see traces of propaganda and a poverty-stricken Hungarian society. If they were sitting here with me, I would surely get the answers, if there were an answer that this was war inflation, that it was Brussels, that it was sanctions in Brussels, that the sanctions in Brussels were bad, that the war was bad. They're all wrong, I admit. If Hungary wasn't ruined by the failed economic policy of Fidesz, I could say it was true. For those who look out in the countryside, who walk with their eyes open, these sanctions, this inflation, this misery, interestingly, the fidesz stooges, the fidesz oligarchs, their party-like servers are not affected at all. Anyone who walks with their eyes open, I suggest you take a look around. They live their normal lives and manage the country, manage their own business, call it organizing the corruption of NER, and they make a good living out of it. I would like to draw the attention of all rural voters to the fact that, yes, look around, open your eyes, because there would only be real war inflation, there would only be sanctioned inflation if everyone was equally affected if they were struck by the stooges, but, as I said, they would not be affected. So I'm asking you all to keep your eyes open, look around, and see for yourself what's real. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-10-27-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. We started yesterday at 9:00 a.m., 31 1/2 hours, thank you all for your work, because you've really been superhuman. Without you guys to help us do our job, we couldn't have done it properly. The Parliament will resume its work next Wednesday at 11 a.m. Meeting day is now closed. Thank you very much.
