u2022-06-07-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 8th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear House, I would like to inform you that, with effect from 28 May 2022, Dávid Bedő, Member of the moment, Andrea Hegedüs, representative of DK, and Anna of Russia, Member of the moment, has eliminated the cause of conflict of interest against them, with effect from 28 May 2022, and Máté Kanász-Nagy, Member of the LMP, with effect from 29 May 2022, so that the Parliament and the parliamentary committees may exercise their right to consult and vote, submit a motion and be entitled to remuneration. There will now be contributions before the agenda. First, I give the floor to Mr Matthew Kanász-Nagy, Member of the LMP. Here you go.
u2022-06-07-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Let's get out of the state's business. In our view, it would be the Hungarian state's task to protect Hungarian workers. Among other things, we maintain the Hungarian state in order to supervise and discipline profit-maximizing large companies so that they cannot exploit Hungarian people and nature. Unfortunately, the opposite prevails in Hungary today, and after 12 years of Fidesz governance it can also be said that the Hungarian state is the worst employer in our country. But why do I say that? Let's see what's going on in the public sector. First, we have to say a term that we, green politicians, believe that policy is designed to serve the well-being and quality of life of people, families and communities. In order to be well-being and quality of life, we need quality public services, including education and the work of teachers, as education deals with the future of Hungarian children and the future of the entire country. From this point of view, it is of particular importance that teachers seek in Hungary, give them appreciation and support so that they can perform their work in the best possible conditions. Unfortunately, the Fidesz government, compared to this, we know very well that it spends less every year than the EU average on education. We also know that education for you is only a secretary of state that can be packed here and there between ministries, and now it's landed at the Ministry of the Interior. But the worst of all, the Fidesz government treats educators the way the CEO of a large company behaves with his sweaty, slaving workers next to the production line. 'Cause how does an exploitative capital knife behave? The excavating capitalist works the workers for hunger, as the Fidesz government employs educators. The wages of a beginner educator in Hungary today are HUF 207 thousand net. How fortunate that old and new Minister János Lázár has a dream: according to his dream, we must reach the standards of Austria by 2030. It is a big question that we will be able to achieve this in the case of educators' wages. I don't know, you know, there's a junior educator out there earning 2358 euros. In addition to record inflation, Hungarian forints are also weak, which means that nearly one million forints are gross there for a beginner teacher. Three to four times the difference between Hungarian and Austrian teachers' wages. But let's keep going. The exploiter capital knife works his employees to death, as the Fidesz government does with educators, teachers work far more than 40 hours a week, this can reach 50-60 hours, we know from all kinds of surveys and experience. And the capitalist capitalist takes away the tools and opportunities of advocacy from his employees, just as you have done in the last few days, in the weeks, when they have also taken the right to strike away from educators, they really do not grant them the fundamental workers' rights. But if that wasn't enough, then there's the exploiter's pride, contempt, mockery, which has also arrived in the last few weeks. László Parragh interpreted the government's position. There is no minister of education in Hungary, but there is a shadow minister of education, he is called László Parragh, who keeps giving his opinion on Hungarian education. Last time he talked about why teachers think about raising wages, when they can go home after four o'clock in the afternoon, or they have their summer break, why they are not satisfied with it; but László Parragh also expressed a utopian thought that a teacher's wage increase is practically like a free beer, that can be promised by everyone, but there is no money. I'm asking if that's true about the teacher's wage increase. So they really are like the most evil capitalist at the dawn of capitalism, who exploited, suppressed and silenced his employees. After all, I would like to ask the following questions. Will you at least compensate for the record inflation of the past period in teachers' wages? Will you ensure that the automatic wage increase is finally kept up to date with your original promise that the teacher's wage bill will be tied to a continuous increase in the minimum wage? And John Lázár's dream will come true, will we reach the Austrian teacher's wage level by 2030? This will require an increase of 100,000 forints each year in teachers' wages. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-07-2	In response, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári has the floor. [[13.10]]
u2022-06-07-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, There's a discreet charm when you talk about the capitalists on the left campaigning with George Soros' money. [[Deterioration from the benches of the MSZP.]] and how far away that attitude is from them, and then they go to the cashier and take the support from George Soros. That was a very nice speech, Mr. Congressman, but your throat is bloody, because, yes, you are here in Parliament with this money. [[Intercom from the benches of opposition parties: And isn't this Fidesz?]] They're going to account for their mandate to him, and they're going to expect the order from him. But let us be serious, honourable Member, because teachers, including after Teacher's Day, always and always deserve recognition, that their work should be recognised, as you said, financially and morally; we must do so, even when it is Teacher's Day, and even when it is not. Because indeed, the future of our country depends largely on families and teachers, they can make Hungary great and bigger, so that we can live in a better and happier country, honourable Member. At the same time, you began your speech by saying what you have heard here from SZDSZ many times that the state is the worst farmer. [[Péter Ungár: Worst employer...]] Well, that's what SDS has been repeating here for years! And to get everything out of the state, they even outsourced the preparation of the National Basics Plan, because, by accident, the National Basics Plan was written with a NGO supported by György Soros, somehow such a coincidence occurs in the history of the Hungarian Left; well, then even the NAT was outsourced, not to mention the teachers' further education and many other things, referring to the fact that the state is the worst farmer, and then the experts in subpoenas. Honourable Congressman, You are not satisfied with what the government has done for teachers in the last 12 years. Well, I don't know what you think of your own allies, with whom you started the election; for whom you campaigned; for whom you wrote your own name; whose party logos you put under your own name on the ballot paper, what they did to the Hungarian teachers. You said there were educators' wage increases, but you should've had a bigger wage increase. I agree that in the future, as the performance of the economy offers this opportunity, this year's 10 percent, next year's 10 percent and the next 10 percent, so in addition to 30 percent, if there is any more funding in the economy, there should be a higher value in educator's wage increase, I agree. Now, the people whose logo was on your ballot, next to your name, what did they do with the teacher's salary? Can you list other than your allies, with whom you started the election, with whom you vote here in Parliament, whose speeches you applaud, other than them, can you list politicians who have reduced the salary of teachers in Hungary? [[Intercom from the benches of the governing parties: No! Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] Anyone other than your allies in Hungary's reduced teacher's wages? No! Only your allies. And in one of your first speeches, you say that you are demanding a higher teacher's wage increase, you, except for those in the history of Hungarian democracy, are certainly not... I do not know if you were in the previous era, who had reduced teacher's wages or not, usually after the communist takeover, the intellectual wages were reduced by those then, but now let's just look at the last 32 years, for the last 32 years it was only you who reduced the teacher's wage. And it wasn't in itself, because they didn't stop here to cut the pay. Do you remember how many teachers have been dismissed by the people you ran with in the election? [[Kálmán Olga: How much?]] 15 grand! Do you remember how many places the school was shut down from which the teachers were dismissed? Great appreciation, value of knowledge, that's what you're talking about, but you were on the government. How many places? [[Péter Ungár: We haven't been to government...]] More than 300 places, Your Honour. So you can stand up, and obviously there is much to say, only if you find that after 2013, there has been a 50 percent increase in wages, if you consider that there has been little decision on a 20% increase in wages for teachers overall during the coronal virus epidemic, and you find it little that I agree that, even in the coming years, if the performance of the economy permits it, there should be a greater increase in wages, but then why are you conspiring with those who, let us say not only raised a small amount, have reduced the wages of teachers, honourable Member! ? At least make it a little bit more consistent. Perhaps if you criticize us, for which there is some truth, that there can be more wages, because that is what teachers demand, and we agree with that, then perhaps you should look at yourself, if I see it right. [[He's showing it with his hands.]] here in Parliament's horseshoe to the left, and perhaps to the point of saying what you disagreed with. You're missing these because you wanted to get into Parliament. That's why he didn't tell me that he was coming into Parliament with teachers' wages; that's why he's silent about politicalizing with people who took away prestige from Hungarian teachers and what they said in the campaign, like, András Fekete-Győr. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That we have an immense amount of school, and they have a very poor quality. Did you ask for the quality of the romaty in the name of the educators? Did you refuse the teacher's wage cuts? Then we'll have something to talk about. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties, sporadic applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2022-06-07-4	I now give the floor to Congressman Tamás Mellár, member of the Dialogue Group. Here you go.
u2022-06-07-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The other day, the Orbán government announced a austerity package with their use of language, of course, this is just a budget adjustment package, which costs HUF 2200 billion; of which 800-900 billion revenue increases and between 1200 and 1300 billion expenditure cuts. Let us not doubt that most of this will be paid by our citizens. This is 3.5 percent of our GDP on an annual basis. By the next year, there will be a similar degree of austerity according to the information of the Ministry of Finance that has been leaked so far, so the two years overall, the austerity package reaches 7 percent of GDP. This is larger in proportion, above the 1995 Bokros package, which suggests that nothing has improved in Hungary's economy in the last 25-27 years. I would like to draw the replying Secretary of State's attention to the fact that there is a crisis, and that is why we need restraint, because what is the crisis in which GDP increased by 7.1 percent in the previous year and 8.2 percent in the first quarter? No! It is not the crisis, nor the war, that is the reason for this austerity, but rather that since 2017, the government has implemented a very powerful economic recovery programme, called off EU funds at an accelerated pace, launched huge public investments, the debt/GDP ratio has already reached 80 per cent in the autumn long before the outbreak of the war. [[13.20]] So it's not like we're in this situation because of the war. It's about an election budget that came up, and the government almost used a helicopter to throw the money in order to win the election. Within the framework of national cooperation, there has been an economic system in which national capital has been placed in the hands of reliable comrades, EU funds have been allocated to them, and they have received state orders. Yes, but this newly created national capital class operates an economic system that is neither productive nor competitive. If anyone doubts this conclusion, please try to recall the share of all our exports by the majority of domestic ownership companies. I'll help you: only 20-25 percent. And how much of this 20-25 percent belongs to the high-tech industries? Again, less than five percent. So the Hungarian economy and the group of entrepreneurs in Orbán, which constitute the feudal chain, can only survive at the same level if they have additional resources. And now we are at a time when there is no surplus resource, when the government cannot involve additional resources from either the European Union or the East, nor can it take very credit from international markets, because our high debt/GDP ratio of around 80 per cent does not really allow this. Of course, it does not follow that the Hungarian economy is collapsing, and it will not necessarily collapse. Obviously, much depends on our Prime Minister getting a small amount of resources together after all. The other very important element is how people react to this situation, whether they agree to major withdrawals, lower living standards or not. If they agree and some additional resources are still dripping, this may take several years, but we can call this not progress, not growth, but drifting, rowing, and, in fact, not catching up with the European Union. So we can only say for sure that there will be no Hungarian catch-up in the coming years. We will remain the hosts of Europe, and we will compete with Bulgaria to see whether we will be on the last or the last level. This will be the case even if they start pumping up GDP a little bit, because in terms of consumption and quality of life, we will definitely remain a host. This is a very unfortunate thing, we have another 10 to 12 years wasted, and we have four more years ahead of us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of Jobbik, DK, Momentum, Dialogue, MSZP and LMP.]]
u2022-06-07-6	I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary.
u2022-06-07-7	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You have a special explanation, because you claim that there is no crisis. Then he also claims that the war essentially does not affect the Hungarian economy, the difficulty of the Hungarian economy. He said that, even if there is a problem, it was not the war that caused it, but that the government had foresightfully carried out a series of economic development measures over the years, increasing investment significantly, preserving and even increasing jobs. The Hungarian economy was one of the first to emerge from the Covid epidemic at European level, with only a temporary decrease in the number of people employed, and once Covid ceased to exist, you claim that again. He then claims that the Hungarian government's actions are wrong, and that what is now causing difficulties for the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian budget, was essentially caused by the Hungarian government's actions. It also states that high inflation is also due to the government, which is typical for the well-known reasons throughout Europe and Hungary. Among the known reasons, the European Union's policy is highlighted, and the resulting significant increase in energy prices, which the Hungarian government protects by all means, so that the country's economy, the families living in Hungary, are not affected. You know that Prime Minister's recent successful action has taken place in the European Union. It is very interesting, by the way, that in the background, not loudly, but many cheered him to stick to his position alone, because it is positive for their countries in the European Union, too, which did not dare to say so. I think that the draft budget for 2023 means the draft budget for peace and security, the protection of the reduction of overhead and the strengthening of defence. This was submitted to Parliament today, and we will have the opportunity to discuss in detail what this budget contains. It is very interesting that if you will get to know the content of this, you will see that Hungary can provide a balanced budget in the most difficult period. The productivity and growth capacity of the economy are maintained by this budget, and most importantly, it protects Hungarian families from immeasurable regulatory growth. This is unique in Europe. If we look at the 2023 budget, we can also see that growth has remained on an upward path, as it will exceed 4 per cent, while inflation is finally beginning to decline. According to our policy, inflation will be 5.2 percent in 2023. At the same time, the budget deficit is also falling significantly, which is planned at 3.5 percent, and it is clear that we will be able to redesign a budget deficit of less than 3 percent in the coming years. Contrary to your claim, the Hungarian government is pursuing a responsible fiscal and tax policy, as it ensures the establishment of the Rezségvédelmi Fund and the Hungarian Defence Fund with special extra taxes, with extra-profit donors. The current global economic situation gives some people a positive and extra profit, and the Hungarian government is asking these farmers for this profit for a transitional period. I believe that the Hungarian Government is already, and will continue to conduct a responsible economic policy, which aims to protect Hungarian families. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-07-8	I now give the floor to Mr. István Szabadi, representative of the Group of Our Hungary. Here you go.
u2022-06-07-9	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear House, I'd like to show you the daily lives of people who live on wages and salaries through post office glasses. Before the turn of the millennium, but ever since, we can feel that Magyar Posta is like a stepchild to the current government, even though we know that a country's operation requires a well-functioning postal service, which we can experience in our everyday lives. The reason why we may feel that this may not be the case is that the management of the company has moved away from traditional values and that the company's managers are more likely to be called bankers than those who are competent for Posta's affairs, and, thirdly, the sweeping profit-oriented approach, which raises wages rather than higher wages, but profit. A significant proportion of postal workers work for minimum wage or above a small amount of money. This is incredibly unacceptable. Not to mention that the postal profession is being ridiculed by blackmailing, threatening the worker to sell all kinds of financial products; I am thinking about the delivery of insurance or the sale of lottery tickets. [[13.30]] This is not worthy of the postal profession, and obviously this also shows that profit is worth more in Hungary not only at the Post Office, of course, but also elsewhere. This may sound weird to some people, but that's what we're living for; if it weren't, there would be much higher wages, especially for companies where otherwise there's not a fully market-based operation. And it's also a very interesting phenomenon that I've received recently, for example, that the Post Office wants to close its regional offices. The mayor of the village of Pirtó contacted me that the Posta would like to close the postal office in their settlement and try to bring them into the grocery store and threaten to close the mail even if this does not happen, either way. This is obviously unacceptable, this kind of attitude, and it also shows that some of us think that certain improvements come with withdrawals, and let's be honest, the world may go where we have to go to the grocery store, we can give up checks, we can even buy the lottery tickets there, and if we win, then we eat, but in quotes, this is not so funny, and for people who are forced to farm with small money and pay, and I could even list pensioners, it's really a day's lot to buy tickets or bread. So this kind of thinking should be eliminated from the attitude of appreciating people where they need to be, and a lot of people are in trouble because they not only feel that they are weak and have little salary, but that they are not appreciated, and that very often depends on thinking. So I think that intention and thinking are often in disharmony with each other, and the result is that if, say, there is a problem, politics tries to solve it with lifeless solutions, either in response or in order to solve anomalies that are either their livelihoods, their daily affairs, their problems. I ask the fellow Members, also the government, not to allow small settlements, to start the process of closing post offices again, because we know that when an office closes, a service that is part of our daily lives, part of our everyday lives, we can feel that we are not important and that a settlement can be depopulated because we are extracted from it services that are important for our lives and that we can feel that we are not important in that settlement. This is what I'm asking you to think about, and let's work on making sure that we don't give in to a phenomenon of re-post offices. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Lock me up. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-06-07-10	János Fónagy, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-06-07-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I thank you for your speech before the agenda, because it gives us the opportunity to talk about the Hungarian Post, which, perhaps, has sometimes been unappreciatedly little, about the Hungarian Post, which, during its more than a century and a half operation, has not functioned as a company in the last decade, but as one of the most important members of the Hungarian state institutional system. As a basic public service provider, for example, for large transport companies, Magyar Posta has never meant just a company for us, and we have never looked at the 27 thousand people who work with full force to this day, not simply as an employee, but as an important element of Hungarian state institutional system, Hungarian state stability. Honourable Congressman, As not the whole world, but Europe's traditional large postal plants have undergone a fundamental change in recent decades, since the development of IT systems and the change in traditional postal tasks have inevitably affected the Hungarian Post. I am far from agreeing with what you said about the fact that, for example, Posta would be unworthy of financial institutions. Please visit the V. district of Budapest, the Moon Street, the US Embassy or the market on Hold Street you can see that it is a Hungarian Royal Posta Saving and it was created in 1871 and has been operating since then, and since then Posta has been operating as a financial institution. Otherwise, in the past and in the present time, in addition to the traditional activities of Posta, this was one of the basic branches of business, and it is, and I personally hope that it will continue to be, in the future. The other is the obligation of the Hungarian Post, which is the result of the universal postal agreement, in which, as one of the world-wide international networks, it is reliable, and I have to say that it has been an internationally recognised institution for many decades. Honourable Congressman, With wages, it is always the problem, whether it is a teacher's wage, the wages of postmen, railmen or drivers, that there is no answer to that, in fact, that there is no need to pay any more. Of course, of course, this is the case everywhere, and please believe that the Hungarian government has been monitoring the wages of nearly 30,000 postal workers over the past 12 years, and has tried to maintain them in line with its potential. If you say that you need more, you are absolutely right about that, of course, for all such public service companies, we also intend to increase incomes, but the Hungarian budget, the Hungarian economic activity, which has significantly improved over the past decade, will limit this. At the same time, please, if you only go through the last few years in your memory, you will see that the employees of Magyar Posta also received an increase in income each year that ensured that their income was kept at the level. These negotiations have not always been simple, but they have always led to success, and in the last 12 years, from the last 12 years, for, say, 10-11 years, the work peace of Hungarian society and the Hungarian economy has also been typical of Posta. In conclusion, Congressman, Magyar Posta is one of the most important state institutions for us, and its employees are valued. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And we're going to be able to gradually increase their incomes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-07-12	Bertalan Tóth, head of the group of MSZP, also applied for a speech before the agenda. I give you the floor, please.
u2022-06-07-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Fidesz has ruled Hungary in such an absurd and surreal situation that today it is easy to mistake a public service news report for a Bödőcs satire. Just looking at the past week: László Parragh was back in his element, in an 11 million watch he encouraged underpaid teachers and firefighters that teachers had no free summer, and firefighters had no adrenaline rush money, but don't complain. , and he believes that the taxes on catnip entrepreneurs should be increased. Tell them to leave the catnip alone and load the fidesz oligarchs. Then, on the occasion of Teacher's Day, teachers received only a nice message in the interpretation of Szilárd Németh. [[13.40]] Although the Prime Minister did not receive a nice message, he wants to increase his salary of 1.5 million HUF a month to adjust to the House Speaker's allowance, which is what he proposes to the Parliament. How about adjusting the salaries of teachers and social workers to the salary of the Speaker of the House? Do you know what percentage of László Fat's salary is now paid by a novice teacher? 8.5 percent. The average salary of social workers is only 10 percent of the salary of the Speaker. I would like to make a modest suggestion to adjust their salary to the speaker's salary. [[Németh Szilárd István: At least to yours!]] 15 percent, that would be 500 thousand forints immediately. Then it turned out that last year, despite the pandemic and the economic crisis, the hundred richest Hungarian assets increased by HUF 637 billion, while in 2020 the ten richest Hungarian assets increased by HUF 670 billion. What if he's not an extra pro? ! There should be no misunderstanding: we agree that banks, insurance companies and other multinationals should take a greater share of public burdens, as in recent years hundreds of billions of forints could be put into their pocket thanks to the fact that Hungary has one of the lowest profits tax rates in Europe. However, the regulation, which was issued by the government on the weekend, is incomplete because it lacks the following areas, such as casinos, lacks the oligarchs of NER, lacks the contractors of state investments, who have made more than a thousand billion HUF of public revenue, and lacks the cars that profit from cheap Hungarian labor, which are now generating hundreds of billions of HUF profit from the country. We expect them to stay out of extra profit tax. Ladies and gentlemen, But there is not only taxation, it is not possible to impose a profit tax on its own. Why shouldn't workers also benefit from corporate profits? We Socialists are going to propose a regulation whereby workers receive the same amount of benefits from some of the profits of large companies, together we cry, we laugh together. In terms of profit tax, according to MSZP, the Hungarian Socialist Party, the system that the largest Hungarian companies virtually do not pay profit tax should be abolished. We say that large companies pay corporate tax on a higher tax rate. Ladies and gentlemen, We've heard from Fidesz about who they're taking what from, how they're taking it. But one thing we didn't hear: how inflation will be contained, how the government has any plan against the brutal expensive in the shops, and you want to do anything for those people who can't afford to pay for food that is rising from day to day, because this country, under the leadership of Fidesz, is drifting towards a livelihood disaster. We Socialists and Social Democrats believe that people need to be helped in this crisis, and therefore, during the budget negotiations, we will propose a life-saving, livelihood-supporting package, the introduction of which could prevent Hungarian families, older people and young people from slipping off. This is the real Hungarian interest, for our common future, for Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-07-14	Secretary Tuzson Bence has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-06-07-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, His comment was very interesting, also because we heard the comment of an MSZP politician, the MSZP, which, at the time of a crisis, governed Hungary, and not only led it out of the crisis, but led it into a deeper crisis. In Hungary the value of wages is equal to zero, remember what tax has been introduced. In your taxation it was not tax, but even tax, so they put the Hungarian people in a tax burden that could hardly be paid during that period, wages fell, 13 months' pensions were taken away, and I could list the measures, and we should not forget the bills here, because in the same period you have let the overheads skyrocket. They left behind a country that certainly showed the deepest signs of the crisis. The country was in a very deep crisis. Taking account of how a crisis management is taking place in Hungary is an interesting question, especially because... and now suddenly you're worried about the people, the people on whom you put the consequences of the crisis. However, I would like to draw your attention to the situation in which Hungary is, where we have come from. Hungary is on a very good economic path, and even the coronal virus epidemic could not break it. After the coronal virus epidemic, the Hungarian economy recovered one of the fastest, returning to what was before, which, by the way, will be returned by the end of this year, most of the European countries, not even the world economy. This is due to the fact that Hungary has had a very good crisis management, and the most important element of this crisis management has been that we have always considered people as the most important and that people's income is not even reduced in this situation. I would like to draw your attention to this, and I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, after that, a war broke out in a neighbouring country, a war that has dragged not only the Hungarian economy and not primarily the Hungarian economy, but also the European economy. We see the consequences of European energy policy. You're talking about inflation and constraining inflation. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is a 19 percent 19 percent country in the European Union! inflation [[László Varju: Like in Hungary!]] We're talking about a very high inflation. In Hungary, inflation is also the lowest among neighbouring countries. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: 40!]] And what did all this have to do with? Just what the Hungarian government has done in Hungary, the fact that food prices also have a ceiling, the prices of the most important food are frozen, the energy issue, the petrol price, the price of gas oil is that we are talking about HUF 480, while in neighbouring countries we are talking about spending HUF 700-800. About 15 thousand forints is the savings that a Hungarian person can achieve if he goes to gas, due to the fact that these prices are frozen. Or, for example, the issue of interest. Watch out for Hungarian people, make sure that the economy remains operational in Hungary and that people can pay their interest costs [[László Varju: That's why it's growing!]] That's what the age's actions are all about. It is therefore important that we maintain these measures and the next annual budget, but even this year's budget, should be based on this. It is very important that we can keep the reduction of the rent in Hungary, and we can resist these effects. This is what the budget is about, and that is why there is a Rezségvédelmi Fund in this budget, and that is why there will also be a Defence Fund, because security is the most important thing in Hungary. In this situation, the primary task of the government is to be able to maintain the values, the results that we have achieved in recent years. We should be able to maintain the safety of people and preserve the results in terms of the reduction of prices, in all aspects that we have achieved, and to have the slightest impact on the Hungarian economy of the neighbouring war and the European crisis. Let us hope that Hungary will come out of this situation as much as possible, and the Hungarian economy, as it is now, is at the forefront. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and will continue to grow stronger. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-07-16	I now give the floor to the leader of the Momentum, András Fekete-Győr.
u2022-06-07-17	Dear Parliament, Let's just say the Orbán package is an historic austerity package. The Prime Minister said before the elections, and I quote: if the left wins on Sunday, there would be austerity, but if the right wins, there will be no austerity. Interestingly, Fidesz considers itself a left-wing party. The ink was not even dry during the ministerial appointments, and a $2,000 billion austerity package, called the Orbán package, was announced. So Viktor Orbán once again lied to the Hungarian people for the thousandth time. [[13.50]] You're saying that you only levy taxes on big companies, right? Ladies and gentlemen, The reality is, however, that unlike public petrol or food prices, companies here simply raise prices and have customers pay special taxes. You shop, you bank, you make phone calls, so everyone's gonna pay the price for your austerity package. To give you an example, Wizz Air has already announced the price increase, and the other companies will follow the example of the airline. Almost everything will be more expensive: the world of eggs, cocoa, the Internet, travel, or Hungarian everyday life. Plus, there's a direct tax increase coming in. Today, more than 400 thousand small entrepreneurs are excited about how they will tax from 2023 onwards. Perhaps it would be possible to come up with a few specifics to prepare Hungarian small businesses for the changes; let us say, instead of Fidesz and the 12 million-dollar Chamber President, who puffed up in Rolex's watch, accused them of sheltered employment and imposing penalty taxes on exportable knowledge. There are a few of us who don't understand why a person who spends 300,000 forints a month doing professional translations for a foreign company from his home, with his own assets, in his own business. It is already clear that the penalty tax itself pushed businesses back into the grey zone, devising businesses, cutting back on the Hungarian economy, countering business development. And exactly how much tax did you collect with this? Was it worth it? But if you're gonna squeeze me, the question that's everyone's business is what's gonna happen to our money. We will pay more money to companies as a result of austerity, and companies will pay more money to the Hungarian budget, as you call it, to the Hungarian Defence Fund and to the Rezségvédelmi Fund. I'm not arguing that there's a problem. But if there's a problem, I and many millions of my countrymen will be happy to pay more in common. But along with a few million of my associates, we'd like to know what the fate of this money will be. Will you finance the deficit caused by your election spending in the Hungarian budget? Or: okay, will they pay for the difference between world market and residential energy prices? What else, besides that? You are asking, honourable fellow Members, for belts and more sacrifices from the Hungarians not to tell us exactly what our money is being spent on, and that is not okay. This may make it understandable for you to be reluctant to pay more for salami or bank transactions. It is feared that the money will not go to the right place, since this has not happened before. So our historical experience with you, Fidesz Members and Government is not exactly positive about spending public money. It is a great thing that the profits of Hungarian companies came to light last week. That way, we can see who are those who, on the other hand, are not taxed, but even supported, rather than restricted. It seems that you call an extra profit that does not belong to Viktor Orbán. Orbán companies, mainly in the construction sector, have had no idea of imposing a special tax on you. Mészáros és Mészáros Kft. just to give two examples last year, the Danube Asphalt produced 20 billion for the owners of the stróman. He's gonna run for the ministers' yachting and your yachting this year, I know they're happy, but at the same time Aldi's profits were less than that in 2021, but they're the ones, aren't they? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They're ringing in the wrong place. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Momentum.]]
u2022-06-07-18	To reply, Mr Balázs Fürjes has the floor.
u2022-06-07-19	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I listened carefully to the Momentum comment. At first I thought that I would be in a difficult situation if I followed László Botka's behaviour as mayor of Szeged. He said this weekend: I made one promise, and I will speak only if I can praise the opposition. After that, I should now be deeply silent. But that wasn't the only interesting sentence of the mayor on the left about you guys. In the face of the disruption of abundance, only one meaningful Botka quote about you, the young veteran of the left obviously knows what he's saying: opposition parties are so uninterested that I don't think they're interested in themselves anymore. The electoral interest is undoubtedly low. You are the new leader of the Momentum, with your permission, I suggest you get to work quickly. On the one hand: Nomen est omen, i.e. in the name of his fate. Your name is Momentum, and it is well known that the most characteristic feature of this is that it disappears quickly. On the other hand, you will consume the fourth party president in six months, which is a typical symptom of the passing of a small party. In any case, I wish you every success in your new task, it will not be easy. It will not be easy, because according to sleepbooks, there is not much future for a political community that builds its future on cynical political calculations of denial and dream destruction. Scientists also say that there is not much future for a liberal party that has become a parliamentary party in an unprecedented way by never having entered the Parliament alone, under their own rights, and now only the old left, more precisely, Ferenc Gyurcsány, and the little ones, climbing up to Parliament. But it also shows the impossible nature of your mission, that when you were the last to be scaled in a show called the left-wing pre-election, your candidate for Prime Minister, happens to have earned 3.5 percent of the confidence of your own left-wing voters, 3.5 percent didn't ask you for the left-wing voters. In other words, you were retired by your own voters at the age of 30. Only decisive action can result in such a situation. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Was that a joke? Because he didn't come over!]] Dear Chief of Staff, In the spirit of good faith cooperation, we have known each other for a long time, pro bono, on a courtesy basis, let me tell you that the Momentum will not succeed if you do not listen to your constituents and do not implement three fundamental corrections in their policies. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Now let your own thoughts come.]] First of all, be brave in your earlier words. Free your party from Gyurcsány Gyurcsány Gyurcsány Gyurcsányi Gyurcsányi Gyurcsányi! Second, say no to the Nazis. Break up with Jobbik, who is still a small-scale congregation, who has made countless unacceptable and inhuman statements in recent years. Thirdly, end the war hawk policy completely contrary to Hungarian interests and put Hungary's peace and security at the heart of their policy. As to the difficult to calculate point of your comment: I am not surprised that Momentum protects multinationals. What you're saying about lying is interesting because you're sitting next to Gyurcsány's party. We know that they, you lied to us this morning, night and night. He was the one who said tax cuts and turned into a tax increase. Or in your line of work, the congressman who lied to himself as an economist, a graduate, turned out to have no degree. [[Noise, interruptions in the benches of Momentum.]] At least the representative acting in a similar manner has been removed from the political line. You have said that there is no way that you can enter into an alliance with the left before 2010 or with the Jobbik; we see what has become of it. I know you guys really want us to touch it, cut it down, which excluded family benefits, 13th month's pension, pension increase. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the tax refund, the tax exemption. We will certainly not give you this pleasure. We are on the side of Hungarian families. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties and the Momentum.]]
u2022-06-07-20	Now it's James Peter's turn. [[14.00]]
u2022-06-07-21	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, what you're doing is both masterful and tragic. [[The Foreman of Novak behind him opens his laptop, on the back of which you can see an inscription with a red arrow pointing towards Peter James.]] Because it must be acknowledged, master, that you have been able to remain in power for 12 years while on earth [[The predecessor of Novak points to Peter James.]] they didn't put any meaningful government performance on the table. Let us say: health, education in ruins, transport, public safety is catastrophic, prices are out of control, inflation is also getting poorer, people are getting poorer. In the last 12 years, you have achieved so much with a great deal of EU resources that we Hungarians have become the second poorest nation in the European Union. Excuse me for saying this, fellow Members, but this country would have achieved this much even if it hadn't been led by anyone. [[Mr. Novak intervenes.]] [[Mr. Novak intervenes.]] Instead, we've got you guys on our backs, we've got a pile of ministers and secretary of state, and that's what they've done. Nothing! (Elect Novak interrupts.) And yet you have become the state party of this country, fellow Members, in 12 years! Do you know where the election was won in the highest proportion? In one of the poorest settlements in the country, in Gadna. [[What did István Földi do?]] They got 100 percent, 100 percent! Everyone in Chenya, except for one man, voted for you in the poorest settlement in the country. [[The predecessor of Novak points to Peter James.]] Colleagues! Do you know how much Cheetah's average monthly income is? 36,000 forints. 36,000 forints, and everyone voted for you now, four years ago and eight years ago. And you came to the conclusion: keep the people in poverty and win the election. Keep him in poverty, threaten him with the migrants coming, or I don't know if gay doctors are gonna operate on your kid, or just be happy with your 36 thousand forints a month, because if you vote for someone else, that's not even gonna happen. And it works! As shown in the accompanying diagram, this way you can remain in power. But, fellow Members, is it worth it? When you were sitting here in Parliament, did some of you dream about Hungary 32 years ago? Were they dreaming of a Hungary where 32 years after the change of regime, a Fidesz voter is also happy to receive 36 thousand forints a month? The Prime Minister's rubber boots cost twice as much, fellow Members. Were you dreaming of a Hungary where to win the election is enough to keep the people in poverty and constantly threaten them? Angela Merkel was Germany's head of government for 16 years, won every election for 16 years, and you know it's not because before the elections, she was handing out potatoes to Jurgen, or threatening public workers and mayors, no. [[Mr. Novak intervenes.]] He won every single election because people were satisfied, they felt that they lived well, that they were valued that they would receive quality health care in exchange for paid taxes, modern education, quality pay for quality work, good working conditions, a predictable future, where not only can you work from vision to blindness, but where you can live and relax, vacation, because there is something to do. Fellow Members, you can still stay in power for 16 years. You have chosen a different path, the path of Gadna and Chenete, the path of poverty and fear. 3 million Hungarians voted for you, 3 million Hungarians chose this trip with you, but 10 million will pay the price, if you are willing. My neighbor in Miskolc recently told me he had enough, moved to Germany at 50. [[Bence Rétvári: Újbudai is your neighbor!]] And when I talk to her, and I ask her, "My friend, how do you feel when you come home?" [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] Then, you know, you don't say homesickness, happiness, you say stomach cramps. That's what your system means to him, stomach cramps, and the realization that when he was 50, he realized that he could have lived that way, calmly, without stress, paid, appreciated. He's gone. But what about the ones who stay? Colleagues, I told you before the elections: someone has to pay the price for the last 12 years of free robbery. I told you, if it's our turn, the thieves will pay, if the thieves stay, then the people will. You remain, the thieves remain in power, so people have to pay. This country is about to be cut down like it's never been before. And it will be possible to print propaganda, fellow Members, to put out the billboards that Hungary is going forward, but the man will not buy bread from it, and he will soon have no money for it. This country has been kept alive only by the money in Brussels. There won't be any Brussels money, and hungry Lőrinc Mészáros will be, and sooner or later, the Hungarian man will be sick of feeding you, sooner or later not only the person who leaves here, but also the person who stays. Sooner or later, the Hungarian man will be fed up with poverty and stomach cramps. Then what are you going to do, fellow Members, how are you going to get out among the people, the street fighter who wears a bulletproof vest to kindergarten? What happens to you once people run out of money and people's patience? Well, you're already afraid of your own people, and that's why you're threatening public workers, which is why you're threatening entrepreneurs, anti-vaccination nurses, strike teachers, and so en bloc anyone who dares to criticize you. It's just, fellow Members, the thing is, you can't keep a nation in fear forever. It could be four years, eight years, 12 years. For 16 years, it's gonna come out. Because a hungry man, you know, can do a lot of things, even overcome his own fear, and if he has overcome it, he will defeat you. Fellow Members, sooner or later all regimes will end, the question is whether they are nice or ugly. It's up to you. I want the thieves to pay me. Prosperity for all Hungarians! I'll stay on the side of the people. [[Applause from Jobbik and Momentum.]]
u2022-06-07-22	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2022-06-07-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, You said nothing happened in 12 years. I think even his own partymates smiled at that. If one or two things need to be highlighted: say, there have been a million new jobs; unemployment has fallen from 15 per cent to 3.6 per cent; personal income tax has decreased from 32% to 15 per cent, personal income tax is around zero per cent for a family with average income, three children. No, it wasn't. It's now. You know that, because you hired him while attacking him here in Parliament. There was no baby shower support now. There are many other types of family support, tax exemptions, discounts that weren't, and now, thank God, there are. The number of crimes has fallen to one third. It wasn't an increase in overhead. It was a reduction in overhead. It was not the taking of a 13th month pension; it was the rebuilding of the 13th month pension, honourable Member. And it wasn't a book price increase, it was a free textbook package for all Hungarian students. Families are not expected to be able to pay for children's meals or not, but there is a multiplicity of free children's meals in Hungary. And I could tell you how much has happened, honourable Member, in recent years. But if you don't believe me, then believe your new friend, Eurostat. How the share of the poor has changed according to Eurostat in the European Union and Hungary: from 8.9 percent in the European Union to 5.9 percent in a decade; from 23.4 percent to 8.3 percent in Hungary, much more than anywhere in the EU, from 23.4 to 8.3. This is a very large reduction. How did the proportion of people living in extreme poverty change? In 2010, it was around 400,000, around 400,000! Now less than 100 thousand, honourable Member. That's what you think nothing happened. What we do see, however, is that the diligence of the Hungarian people is finally not hindered or hindered by its government. What your ally, Ferenc Gyurcsány, did, who taxed people to death, said that it was possible to leave here, who had smeared entrepreneurs, everyone else, who had dismissed people, took their salaries, increased their taxes; announced a tax reduction programme, announced a four-year tax reduction programme, and then, a few months after the elections, more precisely, immediately increased taxes. This is what you have done, what you have done, and this is what you say, honourable Member, that nothing has happened, when even Eurostat cannot deny that, thank God, in Hungary, the number of people who live in deprivation has fallen noticeably, and the main basis for this is that more people are working, a million more people are working. You were smiling here when the Fidesz-KDNP government announced in 2010 that this was our goal, one million jobs in ten years. They smiled here that it would never happen in life, but they laughed at this commitment, and it came true compared to that. Indeed, many have said that it is a powerless undertaking, and yet it has been done, and it is indeed a million more people who are working. And companies aren't taxed to death either. You have been attacking us here for weeks, months, in Parliament, to attack the government's action to reduce the tax on businesses from 19 to 9 percent, and indeed, one of the lowest businesses in the European Union. We need to pay for profitable businesses, and you are attacking this to raise this. The figures spew about how much they would raise this number, but certainly somewhere around 20 percent, while we were able to increase the Hungarian economy at a higher rate than the growth of the European Union's economy, which is why every year the difference between Hungary and the average of the European Union compared to its starting position in 2010. This remains our goal, which is why we are resisting, for example, the oil embargo. You were not willing at all, Jobbik was neither, nor any left-wing party, to speak out and support the interests of the Hungarian people, that the oil embargo should not be extended to Hungary. You came in here today, you have your Facebook video today, you're pissed off, you're pissed off, and you've said your angry speech, and then the likes come back to you, and they're gonna signal back to you, and you think you're done with today's penny. But why was he not so angry when the Hungarian people wanted to raise their petrol prices? Why didn't you dare stand up for the gas stop? [[James Peter: We protested in Matthew Salka!]] Why didn't you dare stand up? It says here that you have to stand up for the poor people. Well, why didn't you stand up for the rent cuts, why didn't you? Your MEP, Márton Gyöngyösi, said first of all that the sanctions in Brussels should be adopted, which means that in Hungary the price of essential things will rise, petrol, overhead, food, and I could tell you more. This position was first adopted by the Union. It's not what you're saying here that you need to help small-money people, there's a line of things you didn't say. If that's what Brussels says, that's what needs to be done. [[James Peter intervenes.]] Honourable Congressman, We're going to press charges. Have a good day. This is a sentence we have heard from you many times, and you said that to a worker in 2020, and you told us here in Parliament, you told the press, but now you seem to be saying the same to your own Vice-President, honourable Member. It seems that anyone who conspires with you will end up in the same fate that might contradict you. There's only one person you haven't told yet that you're going to press charges, have a nice day. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The one you were in a building with at that particular pig slaughter when that particular harassment case occurred. When are you going to tell him that you're going to press charges, have a nice day? Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.10]]
u2022-06-07-24	I now give the floor to László Varju, on behalf of DK.
u2022-06-07-25	Mr President, thank you for the floor, I may not regret it. Dear House, Hungary is in trouble. For months on the part of the government, the puffing went on that the Hungarians have never been so good, and the burdens of families, businesses and municipalities grow two months after the election. Here is the constrictive reality in which the world outside of Fidesen has already told people before April 3rd that this is going to be a big problem for what you're doing. The announcement of the Orbán package was scheduled for a quiet, long weekend, which, of course, was not discussed with anyone in any form. Not with companies, city leaders, or advocacy organizations, as it turns out, neither with the prominents of Fidesz, but they don't dare to speak. Fidesz didn't say a word before the election that his new government began with a huge austerity because of their history, and now they're hoping that people won't notice because they'll make a big campaign of propaganda. That's why you're saying everything's great now. For you. But all the data is fantastic, really? If so, why is it necessary to introduce the current austerity package? Why do they increase the price of phone calls, the Internet, communications? Why do they increase the price of the banking service, the transaction? Why are they raising the pharmaceutical tax, why are they raising the price of the trip? And what happens in municipal markets and shops is really blood-frosting: prices have risen 40-50 percent over the last year, on bread, meat, fruit, vegetables, you know that. Now we're at the point where the gas station's checking traffic permits, shutting down wells, the supply's jammed. You may continue to say that they will keep the reduction, but if someone goes to the grocery store, they paid 10 thousand forints last year for the same products a year ago, a year ago, in April this year they will pay 15,000 forints, and soon they will pay 20,000 forints, even though they buy the same amount, but then this will mean an increase in expenses for each family, unlike your lie. When airlines charge more money from passengers for air tickets, it is not a reduction in costs, but a raise in overhead costs, except for those with private aircraft, because there is no flight ticket. When the corporate car tax increases, the overhead raises, at the expense of the entrepreneurs who give the job. When the mortgage payments are raised, it's a raise for families. Of course, they make sure that the burdens of the Orbán family and their friends and business partners do not increase, they do not pay, but receive, and everyone else pays. You can beat the tattam, that it's the whole of Europe that's to blame, and the war that your bosom friend started, by the way, or anyone else but you. But you brought this dramatic situation together with your lying election campaign. Now they're taking back all the money from the people they used to own. You have brought our country into very big trouble, ruined people's opportunities, record budget deficits, record government debt, record inflation, record weak forints. That's your performance. Your government has made Hungary vulnerable to the international economic crisis, and the budgetary cost of their election victory is now being reduced from Hungarian society. In fact, hospital emergency departments are being closed, and there are cities where you can only give birth on certain days. After that, there is no wonder that doctors, nurses, policemen, firefighters are preparing to resign. And tell me, when are you free, when is it worth having a heart attack? ! Answer that question. And on all of this, we have managed to place the crown: our country, Hungary, has been completely isolated internationally. They did not have any allies left, and it increased people's economic problems caused by countries that they could not even solve the drawdown of EU funds. Viktor Orbán blackmailed the entire European Union in exchange for the vote on the sanctions against the Russians: Hungary is in trouble, according to the Democratic Coalition, the Orbán government has completely discredited the country. According to the Democratic Coalition, the illegal Orbán government's selfish and irresponsible policy has put him in trouble... [[The president's gonna turn the mike off.]]
u2022-06-07-26	Congressman, please finish what you have to say. Thank you very much. Congressman, I've taken the floor from you. Congressman, I would like to inform you that the second part of your speech has not been spoken in this Chamber; however much you shouted, you did not actually speak in the remaining time. And I'll tell you why. I have clearly explained to your group leader that you cannot declare Hungary's democratically elected government illegal. Because if that's what you're calling it, then I'm trying to make logical reasoning clear to you that your mandate is illegal. Because the current Hungarian government is authorised by the Parliament, so if it is illegal, then it can only be illegal if the Parliament itself is illegal, including your mandate. Therefore, as I said in advance, I will not allow Hungary's constitutional order to be called into question, not even for you. [[László Varju: What you're doing is illegal!]] Secretary of State, you have the opportunity to answer. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-07-27	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I can promise you that I'm not trying to convince you with volume, but with some facts and comparisons. You have already dealt with a crisis in Hungary. Let's see what we can do. You were still a congressman, what's more, maybe a member of the government. Let's see how economic growth developed then and now! Now, we know that we have achieved one of the greatest economic growth in Europe, at precisely the most difficult time, in times of crisis. Maybe even you don't deny that. Let's see what happened in your day. In your time, it was not economic growth, but, unfortunately, GDP. Let's see what happened to employment. In your time, during your crisis management, there was an increase in unemployment of up to 12 percent in 2010, record unemployment in your time. [[László Varju intervenes.]] Now, if we look at how much unemployment has increased during the Covid epidemic, we can see that unemployment is below 4 percent, even in times of crisis and difficulties. But we can look at the evolution of the budget deficit. The budget deficit during your crisis management was one of the highest in Europe, and more than that, the country's funding stopped; if the European Union and the World Bank did not help then, they could not pay people in the public sector in Hungary. During the current government crisis, it can finance the source of the budget from the market, even at this time investors trust the Hungarian government and the Hungarian state. But we can look at the development of debt during your high-pitched crisis management, because remember that you have raised the debt to 82 percent of GDP and the amount. This has also decreased in the most difficult times during the current crisis management, is again under 80%, and if you look at the figures and plans of next year's budget, you can see that the debt ratio will now fall below 75% of GDP. Your favourite word was austerity, it was austerity, it was austerity, it was austerity, it was austerity, it was austerity, it was austerity, it was austerity, it was austerity, it was austerity, it was austerity, it was You said, at least five or six times in your speech, that it was austerity. But what is austerity? Cutbacks are taking resources directly from people by raising taxes or otherwise. If you observe the current government decisions and the budget submitted, then we cannot talk about austerity, but we can talk about the need to establish two funds, the Rehabilitation and Defence Fund. The Defence Fund protects the country from war and gives peace, keeps peace for Hungary. The Rezsivédelmi Fund now protects the largest government achievement in Europe, namely what it has come up with ten years ago to protect people from the energy prices that the European Union and war have brought to Europe in connection with each other. [[14.20]] The only exception is Hungary. Even then, you couldn't protect him from raising energy prices. We can take decisions. It is clear that Hungary's fiscal balance is stable, Hungary's economy is functioning and can produce high economic growth over 4 per cent in the next year, Hungary's public debt is falling and employment is increasing. There are difficult times, inflationary times, but if we compare inflation figures to Europe, we can see that Hungary is still the most favourable. So much for the crisis management of the two political forces. I believe that the current government is far more responsible than you once had. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-07-28	It is now up to KDNP's group leader, Mr István Simicskó. I give you the floor.
u2022-06-07-29	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Protection of the country, defence is a national matter. Lajos Kossuth said that the protection of the country, the defence of the country, must be a daily service. This is especially important when there is a sad war going on in our neighborhood. The Hungarian government has taken the responsible decisions in order to avoid Hungary from this war, but has also taken very serious decisions by establishing the Hungarian Defence Fund to strengthen the Hungarian Defence Agency. Of course, we must also stay and see, in the spirit of humanism, that we must help and that is what the Hungarian government does to people in distress, Ukrainians, Ruthenians and Transcarpathian Hungarians. I think that's an exemplary attitude. As the ancient Greeks put it, Heracleitus called war a father of all things, made war king of all things, made some kings, said he made others human, some enslaved, others free. Yes, we must learn from it, and we must remain human, and that is why it is implementing the greatest humanitarian aid in Hungary's history. It is important for them to feel that Hungary is always able and willing to help those in trouble. In a poem by Károly Kisfaludy, in his early poem entitled "Life" it is said that "Honvéd" is. For the first time, when we began to use this term in view of the beauty of the Hungarian language, and our predecessors began to use it. It's about a soldier protecting the country, and that's what we need to do right now. Therefore, the decisions taken by the Hungarian government in the life of the Hungarian Defence Agency in 2010, after an unprecedented deep flight, when we took over the possibility of steering... we met a number of problems, the reserve stock was 17 people, armed cultures were charged, and the Hungarian Defence Office was characterised by poor living and service conditions. I am pleased that when I had the opportunity as Minister to come up with and start the military and military programme of 2026 Zrínyi, dear Congresswoman Vadai, but that was the case, and since Tamás Deutsch, we know that the praise of ourselves is much more important than leaving it to anyone else, obviously I have received criticism from you, but it is not a problem, but the point is that the historical sin that has been committed by eliminating the general obligation of war had to be corrected. We reorganized the reserve system with a territorial principle, launched a cadet program for young people, created a defense sports alliance, new uniforms, training uniforms for our soldiers, new individual equipment, and, yes, the government started the development part of the force, and it is glad to see that this is also progressing at a good pace. Carl Gustaf received grenade launchers, the new helicopters arrived, the H145 M and the H225M troops arrived soon, and this type, Leopard 2 and A4, also acquired self-propelled artillery equipment from the Hungarian Army, PzH 2000s, Gidrán and Lynx fighting vehicles arrived at the Hungarian Defence Office, and a very important development, the Air Defense Missile System, the NASAMS system will also provide protection and security for Hungary. The goal that we have set is to spend 2% of GDP on defence by 2024, and this is progressing at a good pace, and it seems that these developments will be useful. We're in a prolonged war. In this case, we need security and peace, we need to protect the lives of Hungarian people from all dangers and troubles, and we need to protect and help the economy with all kinds of government measures. The Hungarian Defence Agency must therefore be strengthened, the establishment of the Hungarian Defence Fund is necessary. The KDNP faction supports the operation and spending of this fund for useful purposes. Overall, we support the development of a strengthened, new defence culture, because our world is full of challenges, full of threats, threats, and, of course, everything needs to be done to restore peace. We hope that this will happen as soon as possible, but it is clear that these defence funds must be established and operated for Hungary's security and peace. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-07-30	I now give the floor to Secretary Tamás Vargha.
u2022-06-07-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, As the leader of the group said, Hungary's peace and security are the most important for us, and the Hungarian government's most important and outstanding goal today is to preserve Hungary's peace and security, to protect families, to protect Hungarian families, to protect pensions from the effects of the energy crisis which is getting worse because of the Russian-Ukrainian war and the sanctions in Brussels, and to protect Hungarian families from high inflation. As has already been said in this House today, gas prices and overhead costs have increased several times in the European Union countries, and inflation is increasing. The Hungarian government's position has not changed, we will not allow the Hungarian people to pay the price of the war. The security of Hungary's energy supply will never be abandoned by the Hungarian government as its main objective. Our outstanding goal, the Hungarian government's aim, is to ensure the energy supply of the population and to maintain the reduction of the rent that will enable the safe lives of the Hungarian people. This is also subject to the provision of access to energy sources, oil and natural gas. Due to the prolonged war situation, as we have already heard in the House, the Hungarian government is creating a Rezségvédelmi Alapítvány and a Hungarian Defence Fund for which special taxes are to be paid by those sectors that gain extra profit now and in the coming times. The main aim of these funds is to continue to protect Hungarians from drastically rising energy prices and to continue to strengthen the security of the country. There are sectors that gain extra profit in this war situation. We ask them to help the Hungarian people, to contribute to the protection costs of the country. The largest extra-profit company is to be paid to banks and multi-enterprises benefiting from the economic consequences of the war, so the cost of war and the sanctions policy in Brussels is not to be paid by the Hungarian people. The matter of defence is a national matter. We agree with Mr. Group leader on this. There is no strong country without a strong army. Although collective protection under NATO is one of the cornerstones of Hungary's security, we must not forget that the national forces are one of the basic prerequisites for this allied cooperation. Despite the economic difficulties caused by the corona virus epidemic and the current difficulties, our goal remains unchanged. The Hungarian government is committed to modernising the defence sector, which will allow us to reach the 2 percent defence budget ratio originally planned for 2024 by 2023. [[14.30]] NATO is an alliance, the Allied countries give power to NATO. There is no strong NATO without strong allies, so we must also develop the Hungarian forces, the development of the Hungarian forces is a guarantee of NATO's strength, and this is how we can secure NATO's forces. With the military development program, the Hungarian Defence Office acquires a number of meaningful, applicable and usable capabilities, making it a decisive force at regional level and applicable to the quality of the age. It can only be said that military development programmes, which have started with an increase in the defence budget, are an essential condition for the national tasks of the defence and for the fulfilment of the federal obligations. The development will create a defence that will be able to play its role and protect the safety of the Hungarian people in the period ahead and with uncertainty. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-07-32	I now give the floor to Congressman István Németh Szilárd. Here you go.
u2022-06-07-33	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Orbán wanted to achieve one thing at the EU summit: the price of the war should not be paid by the Hungarian people. Last week, Viktor Orbán won a historic victory in Brussels because he achieved at an international level, which was also wanted and supported by a large majority in Hungary: he successfully protected Hungarian families from the worst consequences of the war in Ukraine and the failed Brussels sanctions policy across Europe; the Prime Minister protected Hungarian families from the rising demand in other countries of the Union and from fuel prices and their inflation consequences. His country stood as the only prime minister of the 27 EU Member States, in particular to protect Hungary's interests. In vain, no, in order to reduce the cost, it is not only a matter of preparation, knowledge, but also of will and courage. Dear fellow Members, Orbán has reached Hungary with the Friendship II. Russian oil, which is essential for the Hungarian economy, should continue to arrive at the usual order and price on the pipeline, representing 65% of the domestic oil consumption. It was not for nothing that we said that forcing the Russian oil embargo on us would be worth the nuclear bomb dropped on the Hungarian economy; of course, we have always added that the consequences of the failed Brussels sanctions policy will be consumed by all of Europe, because politicians and ideologists who invent this and forcefully have no plan or idea, because and how to replace Russian energy sources. [[There's more people in the room talking standing up.]] Of course, the situation is not easy at home either, because these bureaucrats want to meet the imperial interests of Brussels, always serving the farthest Hungarian left. Szabolcs Szabó, for example, has neither opinion nor courage in this matter; he believes that the Union will decide what it wants and that everyone will have to accept it. They'll tell you in Brussels, as they used to say in Berlin or Moscow, won't they, Congressman? [[The president's gonna jog the glass.]] However, Bence Tordai, with his usual cynical pompousness, told us that the Hungarian government was blackmailing the Union with the hostages of Hungarian people. In fact, András Fekete-Győr told me the truth, because he admitted that if they were on the government, Hungary would have joined the embargo in any way. If Ferenc Gyurcsány and his clones were to govern, today the 95 petrol would cost 788 HUF and the diesel would cost 771 HUF per litre if there was anything to fill up. If it were up to the left, all four million Hungarian households would pay three times the gas price and four times the electricity price. Under Gyurcsány, families, like other European countries, would not be protected by the reduction of the rent, because they would also burden Hungarians with runaway market prices, and it would even happen that there would be nothing to heat or light up. And Marqui-Zay's fantasies could come true: people would bathe less, and instead of washing, they would ventilate their clothes. Thank you, but we do not ask for the left-wing and Brussels lifestyle councils, but rather we defend the reduction of the rent: we stand by the energy security of our country, and we have made it clear that, despite the war conditions and the failed Brussels sanctions policy, we will ensure the results of the reduction of the rent for Hungarian families, and we will not withdraw from it. We know that this family protection costs a lot more than ever because of the global energy crisis and the brutal increases in oil, gas and electricity prices, which is why we have created the Trust Fund, to which those who clearly benefit from the consequences of the war, those who gain extra profit, and the government also saves, and most of all, private savings. Gergely Christmas, the leader of the richest local government, and the left-wing parties, who attacked the reduction from the beginning, are encouraged to contribute to the protection of the reduction of the rent instead of putting billions in their pockets by playing phantom fractions. Ladies and gentlemen, There's a war emergency. We ask the left to go beyond their ugly defeat in the election for once, and do not seek revenge on the Hungarian voters. We ask you to support the Rezségvédelmi Fund, to protect the Hungarian families together. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-07-34	I now give the floor to Minister Peter Szijjártó.
u2022-06-07-35	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, The next-door war and the subsequent Brussels sanctions packages and geopolitical changes that have emerged in recent months are a whole new global economic and completely new geopolitical reality. It is no exaggeration to talk about a new era in the world, and this new era has many characters. One of the characteristics is that we are facing very serious energy supply difficulties, energy shortages and lack of raw materials. Previously, the issue of energy supply was like air itself: we took it completely natural, we could always buy natural gas, we could always buy oil, the market was basically more supply, the only question was who could reach a better price. Today, the situation has changed significantly: the price has become a secondary issue in energy purchases, because the primary issue is that there is something to buy. There are also generally apples on the market, if you're coming from the producer, if you don't have them, you can't actually buy them. This is what this approach looks like today, perhaps a little more complicated, roughly simplistic, is also the international energy market: there are no always available energy sources, so the country that can produce more of the energy that it uses itself will have a huge competitive advantage and even security, and the country that has long-term contracts on energy procurement is in a safer position than the others. Ladies and gentlemen, We have made Hungary's position on the war next door clear several times, but we have also made it clear that in this situation, our primary task is to preserve Hungary's peace and security. However, there is not only a physical aspect of maintaining security, but also an economic and energy aspect. As a result, the Government of Hungary voted for the first five sanctions packages in Brussels without further delay. We have never initiated a debate on who these packages hurt more, those who put these packages in place, or those against whom they were put into effect, because there is no time for reasoning during war. But we have made it clear that we will not allow anyone to pay the price of the war to the Hungarian people, because the Hungarian people are not responsible for this war, the Hungarian people did not want or want this war to happen next door. [[14.40]] We have made it clear that, as a result, we are not willing to risk the security of Hungary's energy supply and the results of the reduction. Hungary's natural gas supply does not depend on Russia for 85% and our oil supply does not depend on Russia for 65% because we would have chosen it ourselves to do so. Energy supply is not a philosophical issue; philosophically it cannot be heated, philosophically it cannot be cooked, but it is a physical question: either there is an energy carrier or there is no. In order to be an energy carrier, we also need a transport route, which has been designated by history and infrastructure developments in Hungary over the past decades. We have therefore made it clear that Hungary is only willing to bring oil supplies under embargo if pipeline transport is an exception. And if we have this exception, although everyone has tried to pressure us from across borders and from home to give up this position, we can ensure that Hungary's energy supply will be safe in the coming period. And not only will our energy supply be safe, but we will also be able to preserve the results of the reduction. If we had not been able to achieve the exception for pipeline oil transport, fuel prices in Hungary would have immediately increased by 55-60 percent, and the results of the reduction of the costs would have been at risk. We didn't let that happen, we fought for our right. We will continue to do so in the coming period, and we would like to make it clear now: Hungary will not support any sanctions if it endangers the supply of gas to Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-07-36	Dear Parliament, Liliána Grexa will now be speaking before the Ukrainian minority spokesperson for a five-minute period. There you go. I'll give you the floor.
u2022-06-07-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Шановний пане Голово! ШановнΓ депутати, представники нацΓональних меншин! Mr. Speaker, Honourable Members and Nationality Spokespersons! It is an honor for me to be able to speak before the agenda of the Hungarian Parliament as a newly elected spokesperson for Ukrainian ethnicity in Hungary, and I can express my thanks to all Hungarian people who have helped and helped Ukraine, as well as those who are forced to flee from Ukraine because of the attack of the aggressor. It is true that the friend is known in trouble, because when Russia attacked Ukraine, the Hungarian people immediately gave the Ukrainian people a helping, friendly better place. Thousands of Hungarian civilians, MPs and municipal representatives without Ukrainian affiliation, ethnic advocates and representatives, civil rights dignitaries, representatives of relief organisations, law enforcement workers, state, municipal and private institutions and companies, students came to the railway station, traveled to the border, brought donations from the first day of the war, and tried to help frightened, hopeless Ukrainians, who packed their lives in a backpack, leaving the shelter, or traveling to the cooled location of their house destroyed by a rocket attack, in airless railway cars full of days to arrive in a safe country. And Hungary, the Hungarian people, took in and helped refugees with their heart and soul. I am grateful to the Hungarian Government, the relevant ministries, law enforcement agencies and government agencies, the National Humanitarian Coordination Council, the employees of local governments, public and private institutions, companies, aid organisations and, not least, volunteers. I also thank you for the humanitarian aid that the Hungarian Government has offered Ukraine, and I trust that Hungary and the international community will also help to rebuild Ukraine after the Ukrainian victory. And I thank all Hungarian people without Ukrainian attachment for every good word, encouragement and prayer, because as believers we know that where one cannot anymore, prayer and God can still help. Honourable Members, Dear Speakers, There's been a bloody war in Ukraine for 104 days, innocent civilians, heroic soldiers dying every day, men and women forced to leave their homes, take arms, fight to defend their country. How do parents feel about their children who died as a result of the aggressor attack? And how do children who need to spare their father because he's on the front line and don't know that he'll ever be seen alive again? I know a Ukrainian artist, Ivan Pilipect, who won one of the Ukrainian music talent artists, sings so beautifully. We invited him to Hungary, the day of Ukrainian culture, and he sang beautifully to us on 19 February this year. Now the 128th Transcarpathian army serves in the storm brigade, who volunteered to serve his country. Three young children and their wives are waiting for you at home. I also know the Ukrainian tennis player Serhi Stahovsky, who defeated Roger Federer in Wimbledon in 2013. He lives in Budapest with his Russian wife and three small children, but when the war broke out, he voluntarily joined the Ukrainian territorial defence forces to defend his country against the aggression. And I know Stanislav Kaluzsak from Ivano-Frankivsk; he was a young guy in his 20s, a vlogger before the war, full of dreams and plans, recently posted from the front that he had killed two of his comrades again. By the way, Stanislav is my cousin's son, and my cousin doesn't know that he will ever see his son alive, raised with fear. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear Speakers, Let me now remember the innocent victims, adults and children of the war in Ukraine with a few seconds of silence. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you very much. Mr. Speaker, Dear Deputy Prime Minister, Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Nationalities Speakers! I would also like to thank you once again for your help, both so far and in the future, to Ukraine and to the Ukrainian people. I trust that from here, from the House of the country, my thanks will also reach the settlements represented by you, all Hungarian people who have been friendly and helpful to the Ukrainians, the people who are fighting for their freedom and independence. Finally, allow me to wish that God protects Ukraine's defenders, God protect Hungary and Europe in these distressing times, and God bless all helpful, well-meaning Hungarians! Thank you very much.
u2022-06-07-38	Thank you. Minister Péter Szijjártó will answer on behalf of the government. I give you the floor.
u2022-06-07-39	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Speaker Woman, First of all, I would like to reiterate that Hungary's Government has already made Hungary's position clear after the outbreak of the war: we condemn the Russian military aggression against Ukraine. We stand up and stand for Ukraine, and we give all the help that exists, all the support that exists, to people who have to flee from war, who come to Hungary, or who want to reach their final destination through Hungary. To date, some 740,000 refugees have been admitted directly or indirectly from the territory of Ukraine, who we have provided, for whom we have provided safe passage, or we have given them the opportunity to stay here in the longer term. For those who stay in the longer term, we offer them work in addition to care, and we provide full care for children's education and kindergarten care. I would like to say that this is also our moral and legal duty, because those who have to flee from war can go where, rather than next door, and we in Hungary provide care and protection for everyone who has to flee from war. [[14.50]] Dear Speaker Woman, I would like to inform you that, with the assistance of the Hungarian Government, the amount of humanitarian donations from Hungary to Ukraine has reached 2 thousand tonnes. This is the greatest and most important humanitarian action in Hungary's history, which, of course, has been the case so far! We will continue as long as we need to. We are confident that the war will end as soon as possible, although we must be realistic in that the events are unfortunately not in this direction. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at the last donor conference in Warsaw, the government has offered a humanitarian aid of EUR 37 million of five points, one of which is to rebuild a school, some 10 kilometres from Borodianka. We have identified this institution together with the eco-menic aid service, which we are ready to rebuild in the event that it is approved by the Ukrainian authorities. I would like to inform you that we have committed ourselves to the special care of 130 Ukrainian sick children. This cooperation will begin by bringing 44 children from Csernihiv County hospitals to the Heim Pál Children's Hospital. Air raids are ongoing in Chernihiv, so children's departure is delayed, but if the safety conditions allow them to start, and we will provide them with the proper care here in Hungary. As we offered without limitation to injured Ukrainian soldiers health care in Hungary, our hospital capacities are available. As requested by the Ukrainian authorities, these capacities can be made available immediately to wounded Ukrainian soldiers. Just as we have begun preparations for the delivery of mobile homes to Transcarpathia, where the challenge of supplying internal refugees is becoming increasingly problematic. The county administration of Transcarpathia and the county council have been consulted on the details of the delivery. Similarly, there is a budget for receiving thousands of young people at universities in Hungary with scholarships who had to interrupt their studies in Ukraine because of the war. The deadline for applying was extended until the end of July in order to allow young Ukrainians who are now completing high school, so not only young people who are completing their studies, but also young people who want to start university studies in September but are unable to do so in the war conditions in Ukraine, we are expecting a scholarship to a total of thousands, so we are looking forward to the arrival of young people in early September. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-07-40	Thank you for the voice of the spokeswoman, with which we have closed the comments before today's agenda. I would now like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2022-06-07-41	Dear Parliament, János Bencze, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; László Varju, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; Balázs Barkóczi, DK; Andrea Hegedüs, DK; Bence Tuzson, Fidesz; Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Péter Ovádi, Fidesz; Lajos Lőcsei, Momentum. Antal Csárdi, LMP; Bence Tordai, Dialogue; Előd Novák, Mi Hungary; Dezső, MSZP; Dávid Bedő, Momentum; Brenner Koloman, Jobbik; Gergely Arató, DK; Imre Vejkey, KDNP; Barna Pál Zsigmond, Fidesz. Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Előd Novák, Mi Hazank; László Varju, DK; Lajos Löcsei, Momentum.
u2022-06-07-42	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that there was a motion to suspend the immunity of Armenian ethnicity advocate Akopjan Nikogos 18 May 2022.B.204/2019/316. on the prosecution of crimes against the Order of Elections of the Metropolitan Tribunal. In addition, a motion to suspend the immunity of a dialogueary Member of Parliament Szabó Timea was received on 26 May 22th 15.Bpk.485/2022/3. No. 2 of Budapest II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. He brought a private charge of defamation from the District Court. On 1 June 2022, Bence Tordai also received a motion to suspend the immunity of a dialogueary MP 12.Bpk.486/2022/7. No. 2 of Budapest II. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. He also filed a private charge of defamation from the District Court. I've issued the motions for examination to the immunity committee. I would like to inform you that the immunity committee has submitted its proposal for a decision in all cases, so that, according to the proposal on the agenda, the suspension of immunity will be decided on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, President Katalin Novák sent a transcript to Parliament on the appointment of State Secretarys. I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to explain this.
u2022-06-07-43	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 202. Mr Sándor Farkas, dr. Zsolt Feldman, dr. Márton Nobilis, dr. András Rácz and Péter Zambo as State Secretary of the Ministry of Interior, dr. Zoltán Bolcsik, dr. Miklós Dukai, Attilát Fülpöp, dr. Zoltán Doltán, dr. Bencét Rét Rábács and dr. Péter Takács as State Secretary of the Ministry of Interior, dr. Zándor Csepreghy, Balázs Lánszki, dr Sándor Bált Tárt as State Secretary of the Ministry of Construction and Investment, dr. Gábor Gion, dr. Tám Horváz, dr. Tám Tár Támszt Tár Törtért as State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence, dr. Budapest, 24 May 2022 Katalin Novák.
u2022-06-07-44	Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of myself and of all of us, to congratulate the secretary of state and gentlemen and wish them further success in their work. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]] Dear Parliament, I declare that the Prime Minister is CXXV of 2018 on Government Administration. Law 201/A. Mr. Balázs Orbán appointed Mr. András Orbán as the political director of the Prime Minister with effect from 25 May 2022. I would also like to congratulate Mr Orbán Balázs on behalf of all of us and wish him a successful job. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]] Mr. Balázs Orbán appointed Mr. András Orbán as the political director of the Prime Minister with effect from 25 May 2022. I would also like to congratulate Mr Orbán Balázs on behalf of all of us and wish him a successful job. (Applause on the pro-government side. ) [[15.00]] Dear House, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Please place your cards in the voting machine or check that you have done so in the right way. We are now deciding on an exceptional proposal. The author initiated an exceptional procedure for the Parliament to discuss the consequences of the armed conflict or humanitarian disaster in Hungary in the neighbouring country T/167. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The rapporteur initiated the possibility of submitting an amendment within three hours of the decision on the exceptional procedure, the consolidated debate being held on Wednesday 8 June 2022 as the first item on the agenda, the decision on the summary proposal and the final vote on Wednesday 8 June 2022. Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of more than half of the Members, that is to say, 100 Members. Dear House, Now it's time for decision-making. I'm asking you, do you agree to hearing this proposal in an exceptional procedure, according to the national motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has accepted a hearing with 132 votes in favour, 41 votes against and no abstentions. In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be submitted at 6:02 p.m. today. Dear House, We are now deciding on an emergency proposal. The author has initiated that T/166 on the amendment of individual laws in the fields of defence, economic development and government administration. The Parliament shall also discuss the number of proposals under urgent procedure at this meeting. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the emergency proposal.
u2022-06-07-45	Regulation No 10/2014 on certain house rules Parliamentary decision, hereinafter referred to as the House Rule 60. On behalf of the Government, pursuant to paragraph 1 of Section T/166 on the amendment of certain laws in relation to defence, economic development and government administration. Urgent trial of bill No 1. Urgent negotiation is necessary because of the rapid adoption of the bill and the immediate implementation of regulatory tasks related to the new governance structure. I propose that the general debate of the bill take place on Wednesday, 8 June 2022, immediately after the decisions have been taken. An amending proposal should be possible on Wednesday, 8 June 2022, pending the conclusion of the general debate. The detailed debate phase should be opened by closing the general debate on the bill. The Legislative Committee is the resolution house rule 46. After receiving the information referred to in paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article, but in accordance with paragraph 46. Before the deadline laid down in paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, you may evaluate the Commission's proposals for amendments closing the detailed debate. In view of the above, Article 15 of the Rules of Procedure of the Decree provides that: On the basis of Section 4 of the Parliament's meeting on 7 and 8 June 2022, I shall initiate an amendment to the proposal for a general debate on the proposed bill, so that the bill in question can be adopted in the week starting on 13 June 2022. The amendment to the agenda is justified by the government interest in the early implementation of the regulatory tasks related to the new governance structure.
u2022-06-07-46	Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members present to order an urgent hearing. I'm asking you, T/166 is going to be in an urgent meeting. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has ordered that the motion be put to an urgent hearing by 132 votes in favour, 38 votes against and four abstentions. We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear House, Now, at 3:06 p.m., we move on to interpellation negotiations. I would like to ask my fellow Members that those who do not have a job in the horseshoe today leave the Chamber quickly and quietly. [[The majority of the Members leave the Chamber.]] (Sunning: 15.06 15.09 President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Szűcs)
u2022-06-07-47	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you with all due respect that those of you who are not allowed to take part in Parliament's debate in the coming period will leave the Chamber as soon as possible so that we can continue our work. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Arató, representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Technology and Industry:. Has the panel programme continued? It's an address. Mr Gergely Arató has the floor and I would like to inform you that Secretary of State Zsófia Koncz, Deputy Minister, will answer you. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-06-07-48	Thank you very much. Dear House, At the hearing of the Minister for Industry, who is also supposed to be responsible for environmental protection, I asked in the committee how the panel programme continued and how many panel apartments are planned to be renovated in the coming years, but unfortunately I did not get an answer, so I would like to ask the most important elements of this question here too. [[15.10]] How important this story is, I'd like to shed light on a personal incident that's happened to me. At the time of the election campaign, a lady came to me at the housing estate in Practitioner Street, who told me that she would pay 40,000 forints of her pension in the winter months for the rent in the two-room panel apartment, and that if she was not supported by family members, she would not have money or money for medicine or food. But it is not only necessary to continue the panel programme because it is also a social issue and a social problem, it would mean real savings for a lot of hard-working people living in a panel, real savings, but also because the greenest energy is the energy we do not even use, which does not need to be produced. This is why it would be important to continue the panel program in such a way that the energy modernisation of residential buildings is also important because it would reduce the energy used and used for heating, which is roughly 20 percent of the total energy consumption in Hungary, and the experience is that this type of energy upgrade can save 8-50 percent. So much more would be left in people's pockets, and so much less energy would have to be produced in an environmentally polluting way, so much less CO2 emissions, so that we could reduce the negative effects of climate change. In this period, it is also important to mention that, moreover, this energy, which we are not using, is certainly not gas or oil purchased from Russia, so Hungary's energy dependency could also be reduced in this way. Dear Secretary of State, So here's what I'm asking you. Do you wish to continue the panel program that started during the Gyurcsány government, but in recent years has essentially ceased? How many panel apartments are planned to be renovated in the next four years? How much of what and how much money do you want to spend on this? How can the process be accelerated if you are not able to agree with Brussels on the resources due to Hungary because you are unable to meet the criteria of the rule of law? Finally, do you have a plan for where, in which district or in which city to start continuing the panel program or continue the panel program? I'm asking you this because it's a particularly serious problem here in Stone Mine and Kispesten. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2022-06-07-49	Thank you, Congressman. As I said, we will hear the answer from Secretary of State Zsófia Koncz, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2022-06-07-50	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for the floor. Since this is my first speech as Secretary of State, please allow me to welcome you on this occasion as well. I trust that we will be able to work together in the spirit of mutual respect with everyone, including my fellow opposition Members, and I will do so for my part. Before I answer the question, I would like to reassure you that the issue of environmental protection is, of course, very important for the fifth Orbán government, and we also have the natural resources and values of our country, and we would like to pass them on to the future generation. As far as the panel programme is concerned, this issue has already been raised at the hearing of Minister László Palkovics' candidates for ministers, and I would also like to tell you that we agree on the importance of continuing the panel programme. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the first Orbán government launched the promotion of the renovation of industrialized panel apartments, and proposals were published on an annual basis. The HUF 68 billion budget of the panel programmes and the additional HUF 5 billion provided under the eco-programmes supported the energy modernisation of district-heated, typically residential panel buildings. In the period since then, several applications for panel buildings have been launched, without the need for completeness, including support for energy efficiency modernisation of district heating condos and housing cooperatives, the deployment of smart cost-sharing companies and the exchange of radiators. This helped the energy modernisation of almost 50,000 households in the framework of a non-refundable grant of more than HUF 2 billion. I would like to inform you that the energy efficiency obligation system has been introduced, with the primary aim of finding, developing and implementing cost-effective energy efficiency solutions, investments. This could lead to the implementation of a number of measures to encourage energy efficiency renovation in residential buildings. At the same time, with the provision of EU and domestic resources, we want to further encourage improvements to ensure significant energy savings, especially thermal insulation, window replacement, heating or heating hot water systems. And let me also say that a number of public institutions and public buildings have been renovated in recent years. To give an example from my own constituency, for example, in the Szerencs school district, there was an energy upgrade in virtually every school. We have allocated HUF 98 billion to the renovation of residential buildings within the framework of KEHOP Plus, and the government also supports solar systems within the framework of Hungary's restoration and resilience plan. Honourable Congressman, In view of the time frame, I have now been able to list only the most important measures. They also show the government's commitment to the measures to improve the quality of life of Hungarian people. Finally, I would like to reiterate the Minister's request at the Commission's hearing that, if these objectives are important to you and your party, you should also support them by voting on the budget for next year. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-07-51	Thank you very much. I will now ask Congressman Gergely Arató to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2022-06-07-52	Dear Secretary of State, I would like to thank you for trying to give me a meaningful answer to my question against some of your male colleagues, even if this was not sufficient and reassuring. The fact is that I should start with the budget by supporting renewable energy and energy modernisation by raising the tax in your latest brutal austerity package on renewable energy. What I can tell you is that you have been talking partly about resources that are not currently available, because there is no approved recovery programme, and because there is no approved EU budget, and partly about items worth a few billion forints that are small compared to the weight of the problem and are not a solution. The fact is that this illegitimate government does not consider it in its interest to solve the real problems of voters [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]] I am therefore unable to accept your answer. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2022-06-07-53	Congressman! I am obliged to warn you of what the Speaker has just said to your group leader in connection with a speech before the agenda, and I will then inform you that, if you continue to use that term, I am obliged to withdraw because, in fact, you are undermining your own credibility with this rating, which means that you are not legally elected Members of Parliament. So, with all due respect, I would like to ask you to consider this binding on you and your fellows. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Z. Carpathian Congressman Daniel, Jobbik... Sorry, I would also like to say sorry here, Mr President, that I would like to inform the House that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting, because the Member has not accepted the State Secretary's reply. And now, the interpellation of Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, entitled "How many families are to be evicted?" It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. Here, Congressman, you have the floor, and Deputy Minister Robert Répássy will answer you. Here you go.
u2022-06-07-54	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to thank you specifically for the information on the person of the responder, although it was not difficult to make out who we were talking to on this issue. We have already done the same in the 2010-14 cycle, if you remember, Mr Secretary of State, then the Jobbik faction has already played its part very hard since autumn 2010 in helping families who have been victims of eviction and those who wanted to do so in the field. But we can see that in recent years there have been a lot of times when this government has made a pact with executives, and quarterly quotas have agreed on how many families can be thrown out of their homes without accommodation; you may recall that these quarterly data have been on the Executive Chamber's website for a long time. [[15.20]] Fortunately, there were times when these disasters, even if not completely disappeared, were shifted in time because of the rational and legitimate imposition of the eviction moratorium. This is precisely the situation we are facing: as you know, the eviction moratorium is essentially over, and 15 days later, very many types of acts can be re-established, and neither the profession nor the advocacy organisations nor the foreign exchange community can see or see clearly what awaits them in the coming weeks. I therefore think it is very important to clarify this issue, especially because there has been an example in the past that the government has agreed, as I said, a quarterly quota for the maximum number of evictions. The question arises: have you just concluded such an agreement with anyone, or what is the government's plan for dealing with an incredibly increased number of implementations? For here, the fortunately ordered moratorium, demanded by many opposition, civilian and foreigners together, has also resulted in the fact that at the same time there can be a flood of various executive overruns and wild-drives. We see that as a result of an uncontrolled system because the government did not regulate this area and there could be a disaster, a socio-social disaster, in addition to the mass of corruption. The question therefore arises: is the government a partner in the extension of the eviction moratorium, or is it a partner in finally ordering the swamps of implementation? What we see is that as long as this system is like this, while it is possible to try to recover reclaims on the basis of cheese paper, it is very, very difficult to protect victims from all of this. We are talking about a decade-old problem, the majority of the problem and its untreatedness fall on your time, while, of course, we are not fans of the previous period either, because that is when this loan was raised. But with regard to treatment methods, the question arises: in the days of hell, does the government have an action plan for the solution? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-06-07-55	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, we will hear the answer from Deputy Minister Robert Répássy. Here you go.
u2022-06-07-56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, I'd like to start with what's going on. You say you can't see clearly, you don't know exactly what's coming. As a result of the Parliament's decision, the emergency situation ended, i.e. the emergency caused by the Covid epidemic, and after that,... [[From Cseber to Veder!]] Once this has ceased, the time limits shall resume on the 15th day following the end of the emergency. So, basically, 15 days after May 31, the deadlines are restarted, i.e. all implementing measures, the time limit for the conduct of proceedings, the delay of notification of the notary is restarted. Therefore, all enforcement actions will not immediately take place on the 15th, but the deadlines will start again. In recent years, 99.5 percent of the emptying of real estate was abandoned voluntarily by residents, so the forced eviction in the classic sense took place in only 0.5 percent of the cases, which shows that the housing of those leaving the property was ensured. Last year, the average number of real estate emptyings decreased by 50 percent, and this year even further, since this year only arbitrary housing is allowed to be evacuated. This is a significant number, and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that about one fifth of the properties to be evacuated are property that is one of the arbitraryly occupied dwellings. Since 2010, we have taken countless measures, extended the land evacuation moratorium until the end of the emergency. This extension means that, for practically two years, it was possible to prepare for the real estate evacuation. As I have just indicated, this has already happened partly voluntarily, so it is not in fact necessary to dispose of those who are illegally there from every apartment to be evacuated, but it is a much smaller number. The quotas you mentioned earlier concerned the fact that the government essentially set a ceiling on how much evacuation could take place. We now assume that the evacuations will not reach these quotas, as I said, because it was a two-year preparation period, and also because the evacuations have already been carried out to a large extent voluntarily. However, you yourself referred to the period of governance between 2010-14, and you yourself said that this situation, which many people have come into, was indeed a by-product of government before 2010. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: from 2001!]] The volume of foreign exchange lending increased due to government before 2010, most people who were trapped in foreign exchange lending were in a bad situation because of foreign exchange lending before 2010. The reason why I do not stop is that it would be good for them to talk to their allies Ferenc Gyurcsány about this problem, because, indeed, the responsibility lies with him or with them, and at the time of their administration, the left unleashed foreign exchange loans on the debtors. So it would have been nice if this had been clarified when they started on a joint list in the last election. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Please accept my answer. The law was passed by the Parliament, not the government. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-07-57	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will now ask Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa to accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2022-06-07-58	Mr President, Dear House, If you are already pointing back, let's point back to 2001, when unilateral treaty amendments were allowed in this form. Who was the minister then, Mr. Secretary? Let's think a little bit if we start pointing back at the timeline. Of course, I am not in any way in favour of arbitrary householders in their activities, obviously not of them. More than 20,000 victims of eviction since 2010 typically do not come from arbitrary householders. I'm sorry, but if you're taking a lot of people's voluntary leave of their property off the record that their housing is insured, that's some pretty sad neoliberal conclusion on your part. The thing is, if these people lay low in a sublet, in relatives, in acquaintances, and they have to give up their lives, their plans, their children's goals, to expand their families and realize what they dreamed up in their lives, it's a disaster. You say there's nothing to see here, that's settled. And I think it's outrageous, which is why I can't accept your answer under any circumstances. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-06-07-59	Thank you very much, Congressman. Since the Member did not accept the State Secretary's reply, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow, in accordance with our agreed agenda. Dear Parliament, Congressman Endre Tóth, a representative of the Momentum, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:. Why doesn't the government respect teachers? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári will answer you. Congressman Endre Tóth, you have the floor.
u2022-06-07-60	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, It was teacher's day this Sunday. In such cases, students, parents and, in good times, the leaders of the education sector pay tribute to teachers. After all, as we respect our parents, we respect our teachers, we honor those who raise us, who shape our character, who teach us new things, and inspire us to develop our talents. Dear Secretary of State, It might have been a long time ago, but you had teachers, too. If you recall your student years, you will surely remember teachers who have had a great impact on your career and who may not have achieved certain successes in your life without them. Remember their names and faces. I, for example, remember Ágnes Nikáné Wild and Zsuzsa Sebestyén undergrad teachers or Krisztina Wolf, my high school German teacher. All three are great teachers. I'm sure you've remembered some names. Would these excellent professionals deserve to work under such unworthy conditions as the teachers now have to? Dear Secretary of State, In 12 years, your government has not been able to create decent conditions for the teaching profession. Today, a beginner educator will have only HUF 50,000 per month from his salary after the payment of an average rent in Budapest. Today, a teacher cannot expect his salary to rise in the first eight years of his career. Today, a full-life high school teacher earns as much as any career beginner in the private sector. Where's the respect and respect? Dear Secretary of State, Your minister has declared that he wants order. Don't let the teachers be so disgruntled. You could have thought of that. You should know, however, that without respect and respect, order is nothing but mere oppression. [[15.30]] By the way, if they're already in debt to teachers, they should at least be generous on teacher's day. Unfortunately, it didn't work, but it didn't happen this year either. At a thousand-forint unit price, you have to organize a worthy ceremony at a school, there is no meaningful reward, and this year there will be nice words. But whatever eloquent letter Secretary Maruzsa wrote, unfortunately at the end of the month, when the teacher's salary runs out, he cannot be paid in cash. At the end of last year, the district leaders were rewarded with a million dollars. There was a budget for that. So I ask Mr. Secretary of State: why doesn't the government respect teachers? How can it be that district leaders receive millions of rewards, while teachers do not receive substantial financial recognition even for teacher's day? When will they finally make a decent living for teachers? You can answer with political cuts as usual, but if the country does not get a meaningful answer to these questions in the coming months, a lot of teachers will leave the course during the summer break for jobs where their employer really appreciates them. Thank you.
u2022-06-07-61	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be heard from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-06-07-62	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, before Teacher's Day, on Teacher's Day and beyond, we should thank teachers who have taught in recent years, who are trying to make the most of Hungarian students, who have trained excellent people, because if we look at the performance of Hungarian education in recent generations, we can see that we have one of the most Nobel Prize winners in proportion to the population, which is due, among other things, to primary school, secondary school teachers, teachers and university teachers. So Hungary has really been able to base its future on education and knowledge, and it is no different now. Therefore, both in the past and in the present, everyone who deals with it has the honor and respect of putting their life on the line to make the best of other children, teaching in schools. However, the voice of respect, however, is not the sentence of the party president and former party president sitting next to you when he says that the quality of Hungarian schools is very bad. Is that the voice of respect to be trashed? Is this the Momentum's view of Hungarian education, teachers, teachers, those who often put as much creative energy as possible into educating and educating students? In addition, in the last two years, in completely new circumstances, during the epidemic period, many have used and developed a wide variety of innovative methods to ensure that students do not fall behind in distance education. They are responsible for the fact that neither the results of the graduations nor the results of the year repeat show much difference compared to the times before the epidemic, so this era has been bridged. And you guys have the opinion that it's a mess. Honourable Congressman, I think it would really be worth talking in the voice of respect about the Hungarian teachers and not conspiring with those with whom you did it. Still, it's what the people with whom you didn't want to lump your way out of school that didn't want you to do. They said they weren't gonna put it together because they felt what this pile-up was. These are precisely the measures that, when the IMF came, the IMF's recipe was immediately taken away from the Hungarian teachers, which had been given to them before, and you were involved with these people. If you do not agree with these measures, do not associate with those who have taken you away from the Hungarian teachers and have not given them either in wages or prestige or in the dignity of the teaching field! Gergely Karácsony, your former Prime Minister's candidate, said such things, that our education system before 2010 was also very poor and similar, when the left was in power in Hungary. But you have said some terrifying things too, honourable Member: the rating system would be abolished as it is. It takes 30-40,000 forints out of the pockets of many, tens of thousands of teachers who qualified themselves, who spent time and energy on it and, say, classified themselves as Ped I or Ped II. That's 30-40,000 forints minus, that's a pen stroke for you. They would eliminate the school district system, and we know that small settlements can't sustain their schools, they're in debt, they've had pay problems, but you'd end it with a pen stroke, and the management stability of the small settlement schools is gone. You even judged that there are hundreds of thousands of laptops in schools for students and tens of thousands for teachers. You're just declaring this to be a potato handout. Then, in the case of children with a more difficult fate, the fact that you would put the mandatory master plan into the past or restore the textbook system, the previous one, when textbook prices increased by 70 percent in a few years, is quite alarming for many people. So you've said a lot of things that are alarming, like maintaining schools with less than 150 students is a waste. Well, that's a lot of schoolchildren. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I think, Congressman, there are a lot of alarming things in the Momentum programme that scare teachers rather than feel the sound of respect and recognition. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-07-63	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to ask with respect Mr Endre Tóth to accept the Secretary of State's reply. Here you go.
u2022-06-07-64	Dear Secretary of State, I would like to warn you that you are not a opposition party. So you can point to us, to our allies, back into the old past, but that doesn't make any sense, because you shouldn't point to others, shouldn't talk, should at last do so that teachers can enjoy real respect in Hungary. This is all the more important, because the whole educator society is waiting for you now, watching you see how you can keep them on the field with promise. The opposition had an election program, we promised a 50 percent wage increase. You didn't have an election program, so the teachers and nobody in the country have any idea what you want to do with the teachers' wages. There's a summer ahead of us, and that's when teachers think about how they're going to continue their profession. I'm afraid if you refuse to make any specific commitments, there will be a lot of teachers leaving this summer as well. So I can't accept your answer until you can give a specific statement to the teachers.
u2022-06-07-65	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to inform you that, according to our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Member Dezső, representative of the MSZP, notary of the Parliament, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Finance:. Will you ensure that voluntary fire-fighting organisations are exempt from vehicle tax? It's an address. Your Honor, I would like to inform you that Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister of State, will answer you. The word belongs to Congressman Dezső, the notary of Parliament. Here you go.
u2022-06-07-66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Deputy Minister, If anything goes wrong, the police, ambulances and firefighters will come to our rescue immediately. These organisations have had volunteers for decades, and they are doing essential work for the Hungarian population. Compared to this great work, I'm going to ask you a bagatell request. In order to start the rescue in the case of nearly 70,000 voluntary firefighters, you need to get to the site with your vehicle and your equipment. These vehicles have maintenance costs. Insurance premiums, fuel costs and service fees are paid, but unfortunately we have been taxing them in recent years. I believe it's only a matter of carelessness, because it can't be conscious that we're paying tribute to volunteering. Until 2020, in cooperation with the local authorities, we granted exemptions to these voluntary fire-fighting organisations. This exemption was granted to the tax body, because the municipalities had a good sense that no one else was able to carry out this activity in the municipality. However, on the basis of a decision, the motor vehicle tax was transferred to the State and collected by NAV. This will also remove the importance of local interests, local life and security of property. The motor vehicle tax law provides for who is subject to the tax. On this basis, it is important who owns, owns, owns and uses the fire truck. The possibility of exemption from tax depends on this. Unfortunately, voluntary organisations are usually unable to use them. I think it was the legislator's intention that the various rescue vehicles, police, firefighters and ambulances should be exempt from tax, quite rightly. 'Cause what does it look like to have other people's lives, values, volunteering to earn money on ambulances? Especially not the state with whom they do this respectable work for many times. Only one word and one word would be needed for the solution, so voluntary firefighters would also be exempt. Mr Deputy Minister, please help us make the situation fair: there should be no difference in fire-fighting vehicles. To the state, this tax rate is small money, but it can mean life for voluntary firefighters and people. [[15.40]]
u2022-06-07-67	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. As I said, the answer will be heard from Deputy Minister András Tállai, Secretary of State. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-06-07-68	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As do you, and I, the government is very respectful of the sacrifice and altruism of voluntary fire brigades. I also meet with this in my constituency, there are associations like this in several settlements, where former firefighters, retired firefighters or people who know technical things come together and volunteer to help those in distress. They often say that they can get there sooner because they're closer to trouble than the state firefighters, so I agree with you that the car tax law should also express this appreciation, and therefore, if possible, exemptions should be granted. I am very confident that there is simply a misunderstanding in your interpretation, since the 1991 LXXXII on the car tax. Act 5. §2 of the Act reads as follows: exempt from tax (a) budgetary body, (b) association no matter what association, vehicle owned by a foundation. Therefore, the fiscal body does not have to pay the tax on a vehicle owned by a quasi-government institution, by the foundation or by the association, since if it is owned by the association, it may use it only for purposes which are not other than public purposes. Of course, helping people can be a public goal. However, in addition, paragraph (e) also states that the vehicles of the enterprises that maintain the fire department are exempt from duty as fire-fighting vans which, in the event of an alarm, participate in the fire-fighting or technical rescue. I think it's obvious and natural. The dispute may arise as to why anyone who uses the vehicle only in operation will not be exempted. Yeah, well, then who owns it? If it's not a budgetary body, it's not a foundation, it's not the association, I don't know who it is, in which case you'll have to pay the car tax. I am very confident that this misunderstanding can be resolved, and that this can be corrected by proper interpretation of the law. By the way, the change that it is not taken by the municipality, but by the state through the NAV, has not changed the law, and who collects the tax cannot determine the exemption, but the law says it, and I have just interpreted the text of the law. I trust my answer will help you solve it. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-07-69	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. With respect, I would like to ask Congressman Dezső the notary of the Parliament to accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2022-06-07-70	Although I understood every word you said to Mr. Deputy Minister, but I do not understand the logic of what you are saying, I am therefore unable to accept your answer. I thought it was clear to everyone that it wasn't that the fire brigades were owners of this car, because most of the fire trucks were donated, and they were just running it. My question, my request was to give it to them, even though they're not owners. Well, that's the whole point of what I said. Unfortunately, I feel that you're going around the question rather than trying to help. You are a former mayor, you know exactly how important these organizations are, and what a burden it is to pay this car's taxes, because they are not light-weight cars, and they are not low-performance, so the tax on them is high. And I think we're talking about volunteers. We're talking about government bodies. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] they carry out an absolutely political, socially beneficial activity. I'd like you to think about this once again when you're making a budget. Thank you.
u2022-06-07-71	Thank you very much. Dear House, Congressman did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow, in accordance with our agreed agenda. Dear Parliament, Mr. President Novak, representative of our country, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. Will the government be willing to unlock the encryptions of the past of state security? It's an address. Mr President, I would like to inform you that by responding to the interpellation, the Prime Minister has appointed Minister for Justice Judit Varga, who is responsible and competent on the subject. At the request of Minister Répássy Róbert, Minister of State, responds. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-07-72	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, In the last three decades, the common shame of the MSZP and Fidesz governments is that the past of state security has still not happened, including the discovery of agent lists, the accountability and banning of party state leaders from public life, and the withdrawal of communist luxury pensions. These three demands are the most important anti-communist programs of the Hungarian Movement. In my last speech before my resignation in 2016, due to Jobbik's betrayal, I also praised András Schiffer's last bill, which called for the transparency of the state security past. Of course, I didn't have to be ashamed of the inaction, because in our history, my proposal with my fellow Member Tamás Gaudi-Nagy led me to succeed in exploring the past of state security, because 55 people voted against the faction discipline on 23 December 2011 in a roll-call vote we requested; it is no wonder that the so-called roll-call vote has since been abolished. So in 2011, when the National Remembrance Committee for Time Tricking and Bluring was required by us to name and publish the members of the professional, open and secret staff of the former Head of State Security Group of BM, all network personnel, agents, 55 Fidesz Members voted against the faction discipline while unlocking the encryption of the state security past. But these 55 daring fideszes proved to be little, the rebellion was crushed, and in recent years we have seen no such rejections. Even the Orbán government could be a member of the former colleague of Péter Medgyessy, under the cover of D-209, and another III/II agent, János Martonyi, could become a pillar member of the Fidesz government, and we could give examples. Shame! It is still not possible for historians to search for BM. It is particularly important! It's a secret! In addition to the 19th magnetic tape taken out by the Information Office, which contains the persons of the State Security Network of Intelligence, the former BM III/II. The entire network staff of Group Chiefship, as well as the Military National Security Service, the pre-1990 network database of the former MNVK/2 Group Chiefship, which includes agents under the name "winned". 33 years after the change of regime, the special secret protection for them was outdated. Because of its role in the social system of the Hungarian People's Republic, adapted to the Kádár system at the time to the key political interests of the Warsaw Treaty, it was no longer important for today's Hungary, as one of the best researchers on the subject, Dr. Csaba Ilkei, on the most read right-wing news portal [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] in the box on Kuruc.info. [[Defiance in the ranks of Momentum and Dialogue.]] So my question is, is the government finally willing to make public the files of the communist state security past, other than, of course, sensitive personal data? Thank you in advance for your reply. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-06-07-73	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be heard from Deputy Minister Robert Répássy. Here you go. [[15.50]]
u2022-06-07-74	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, I would like to quote Article U (3) of the Fundamental Law. In order to preserve the memory of the communist dictatorship by the state, the National Remembrance Committee operates. The Committee of National Remembrance reveals the power of the Communist dictatorship, the role of the persons and organizations possessing communist power, and the results of its activities in a comprehensive report, as well as in additional documents, the citation from the Fundamental Law until now. As you have pointed out, Mr President, this debate has, of course, been carried out several times by the Parliament. I would like to quote from Parliament's minutes of 3 December 2013, the general discussion of the draft law on the National Remembrance Committee, the speaker of the exposé, Bencé Rétvári, who presented to Parliament the law on the Committee of National Remembrance with the following words. On the opposition side, many speak only and exclusively about agent matters, although this situation is misinterpreted by negligence or intention, but thoroughly misinterpreted. These agents were often instrumental in the hands of power, some were persuaded by blackmail, others by corruption in order to write about their family members, friends, coworkers, or others, or even report reports to the Communist state security services. But obviously, there were many who, on the other hand, volunteered and volunteered to make others' lives miserable. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Intervention from opposition parties: Károly Szita!]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The task of the National Remembrance Committee is to set the issue from the top of its head to its feet, and to start by examining those who invented the system, who were the leaders of the system, who operated the system and who played a very active role in maintaining the system. Therefore, the primary task of the committee is not only to identify the identity of the informants, agents, but also to enable the interested profession and public opinion to learn about the real face of the communist regime, the formal and informal structures of the party state nomenclature, the everyday functioning of the system, the contexts blocked from the public, and their effects on everyday life, even after the regime change. These comprehensive reports will be published in white books by the National Remembrance Committee. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Another quote, also from this speech, says so. In the case of the most complete public disclosure of documents, the committee has a legal obligation to disclose to the public the documents, images and audio material it reveals and to disclose the personal data of the holders of the communist power concerning their role and activities in the operation of the dictatorship. The Commission's statements of facts published pursuant to Article U) (paragraph 4) shall not be contested by a court or other authority by an independent remedy. Another essential condition of past exploration, which is closely linked to this, is that, like many other countries in Central and Eastern Europe, victims can learn about the data generated by the former State Security Services, with noticeably fewer obstacles and as much as possible of them, while ensuring wide-ranging research. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Honourable Congressman, The communist dictatorship, including the history of state security, is known. This is ensured by the Fundamental Law of Hungary and the Fundamental Law-based legislation. Please accept my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-07-75	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I respectfully ask Mr. President Novák to accept the State Secretary's answer.
u2022-06-07-76	Mr. Secretary. I was hoping that I could get a clear answer to the question to be decided, compared with what the government has been doing in recent decades: instead of quoting a reply, he was quoting everyone else, including the National Remembrance Committee, which was set up precisely to impose responsibility on it to serve the delay to continue the smearing. There's no need for that. I asked a question to be decided, and I listed what was not available. So don't lie here, please, that it's accessible when a lot of things are still encrypted, for example, the BM I mentioned is particularly important! It's a secret! Your certified network, and we might add a list of many things, to which all of them did not respond, even though I submitted this to you six days ago as an interpellation question. The truth is, the names of the politicians who gave orders are long known. So obviously we already knew the larger villains, the Béla Bisku; you rewarded him with a luxury pension for the rest of your life, while you didn't have to spend a single day in custody. And agent lists aren't until they're put together, after someone's finally gonna go public with these files. Therefore, I cannot accept your reply, nor can it be considered an answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of our country and the LMP.]]
u2022-06-07-77	Thank you very much, Congressman. The congressman, as we have heard, did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. The decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Sándor Berki, a representative of the Dialogue, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Justice: It's an address. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that you will hear an answer from Deputy Minister Robert Répássy. Congressman Sándor Berki has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-06-07-78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, Mr. Secretary. The system of judicial executions has been at the heart of debates for a long time. Indeed, this is not only caused by the Völner-Schadl scandal, but it has been proven that the situation is even worse than we thought, and most of the criticisms have proved to be justified. The main problem is that vulnerable, more difficult people experience such procedures as victims of abuse. Even if you want to settle your debt, the system does not help you get out of this negative spiral, but on the contrary. For example, in the case of wage cuts, the rate of deduction is 33 per cent, but in exceptional cases it can be 50 per cent. Yes, but the odds of settling the debt are not the same if a person's payment of 100,000 a month or a million a month makes a compulsory deduction. In the first case, practically the stakes of being are, since the maintenance of life should be solved. It is even more serious for public workers, since it is even less than the minimum wage, it is not a work income, but it is often the only source of life support in the family. And then we can also mention cases where a deduction is made from unemployment benefit, accident benefit, mining benefit. Or it is common for the enforcement measure to simply close the debtor's bank account without having to examine whether family allowances, invalidity benefits or any other income are received in the debtor's bank account. Theoretically, there is a private bankruptcy institution, but in practice it failed, because it contains so much unviable restrictions that they hardly use it. There would be good examples that could be taken as a basis. For example, the possibility of a differentiated rate of deduction, depending on the level of income, i.e. those who earn little and live around the minimum level of living, should be deducted less than 33, possibly 50 percent. The majority would like to settle their debt, but the system of implementation is not a partner in this. The case of court executions has been transferred to the Supervisory Authority for Controlled Activities, but it is a question that is likely to be improved. Why are court executions more disproportionately affecting people with a difficult fate? Can debtors expect these improvements in the judicial enforcement system? Do you consider their life situation, consider them partners? Thank you.
u2022-06-07-79	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to the Member's interpellation question is from Mr Répássy Róbert, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2022-06-07-80	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, As you have mentioned, the supervision of executions is no longer with the Ministry of Justice, but with the Supervisory Authority for Controlled Activities, so the Minister of Justice has asked the President of the Authority to give us an appropriate answer to your interpellation. Honourable Congressman, I would like to stress that it was a decisive factor in the development of all the requirements for the enforcement procedure, in order to strike a balance between two conflicting, mutually acceptable interests, the interests of the applicant for enforcement and the interests of the debtor. When limiting these interests to each other, careful consideration is required. As regards judicial decisions, it is necessary to ensure effective enforcement of claims by those concerned, taking into account the interests of both parties; this requires a complex legislative review and consideration, since the title of claims is different. [[16.00]] It is essential that judicial enforcement is carried out only if the conditions laid down by law are met and according to specific rules. The payment of debts to debtors is a heavy burden, and the implementing law therefore contains a number of provisions which take into account the interest of the debtor, for example, the executioner may, at the request of the natural person debtor, lay down the conditions for payment in instalments. If we look back on recent developments, we can also see the package to rescue foreign exchange creditors, the National Asset Management Programme and the introduction of the private failing institution that joined it. Bankruptcy can be used by those who have usable assets and income, who are willing to pay, but who have limited ability to pay. Since the introduction of the legal institution, nearly 2,500 private bankruptcies have provided 6400 individuals with the possibility to settle debts within a regulated framework. There are still more than 2,000 cases in progress, involving nearly 5,500 individuals. Here I draw attention to the payment moratorium that has been introduced in the last two years, which has obviously made less use of the possibility of private bankruptcy. In the enforcement cases, the Supervisory Authority for Regulatory Activities, as a supervisory body, requires a legal, professional and empathetic procedure; legality, professionalism and empathy, which, in order to enforce a set of requirements, has been declared zero tolerance by the President of the Authority. The authority can ensure the enforcement of the three criteria it sets out by means of statutory control of the enforcement activities, the monitoring of complaints and the exercise of disciplinary reporting powers. (In the notary seat Dr. Lajos Szűcs Replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai.) In line with these principles, the Authority is engaged in an active dialogue with the representative body of the professional order, and thus with its practitioners, with the aim of improving the judgement of the executive order, restoring public confidence and raising the professional level of executive work. In response to Mr President's question, I would like to stress that the Authority will consider all proposals for improvement, tabled by the representative of the professional order, in so far as they meet the criteria they represent, and help in the communication for codification purposes. Thank you for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-07-81	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, Deputy Minister. I will now ask Congressman Sándor Berki to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go.
u2022-06-07-82	Thank you very much for the answer, there was good in it. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these regulations and wordings are very good, but they do not reach people in real life. I'm not representing myself here, I'm representing the people who specifically approached me. You have mentioned the word. empathy. This is precisely a very good expression of the state's need to take account of people's feelings and the feelings of Hungarian citizens. I therefore ask you to take this into account and to take full account of the safety of families in regulated activities, and not just to give them a grace period for repayments, and not just to try to submit a large invoice at the end of this, because unfortunately, this is what is happening. And when we talk about the fact that the self-destruction has not been used, instead there is this outspoken moratorium, there is a great danger of that, and by the end, the debt increases enormously. Therefore, unfortunately, I cannot accept your answer, but I hope that in the near future there will be a better cooperation and better regulation, because we agree that the debt will, of course, have to be paid, but that debt will be paid [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] have an acceptable level, and the citizen's interest should be as important as that of the person to whom he owes it. And let's get the bailiffs out of this circle, because it's not their job to get rich out of it. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-07-83	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will respectfully ask you to try to keep up with the time frame in the next period. I know this will be difficult for you as a junior congressman, but I can do that. Thank you very much. [[Sándor Berki: Thank you.]] Congressman did not accept the State Secretary's reply, so the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow, in accordance with our agreed agenda. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture: what did he do, and what does the Hungarian government do about the serious ecological disaster on the part of the river Sajó in Slovakia, and what specific information about the real dangers of pollution has been obtained beyond learning about fishing experiences? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas will answer you. Congressman László Keresztes has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-06-07-84	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I was very confident in the personal presence of Minister. In recent times, I have been to the Highlands on several occasions in the Rozsnyo district to be present personally where this terrible pollution has come to pass on our common river Sajó. I went on several occasions to gather information on the ground, to inform the public, and to do everything I could to finally get action started. We all know that there has been a serious ecological disaster, and over several ten miles, the river has virtually died. I think that the irresponsibleness of the Slovak government cannot be stressed strongly enough, because for years they have known precisely that this pollution would occur, so they could have prevented the disaster. It also confirms their irresponsibleness that it was three months before they finally started doing any work, and unfortunately, it has to be said that, contrary to the news, they still have not found a solution to fully eliminate this pollution. At the same time, Mr Secretary of State, I can say that the Hungarian Government has also reacted very late to this matter. I feel that action is not firm enough now, as if it were not in possession of the most basic information or sharing the information at their disposal with the public. And I also do not understand why, in the event of such a serious ecological disaster, they are so forced to be polite and restrained with the Slovak government. Dear Secretary of State, I asked you a question last time. At that time, you almost literally replied that the river was exposed to non-toxic iron oxide in Slovakia. Dear Secretary of State, This has been demonstrated by precise measurements that arsenic is present in the pollutant at 400 times the European limit value and by zinc at 100 times the limit value. Mr. Secretary. Have you not requested or simply received any specific data from the Slovak Government regarding the composition of the pollution? Have you received information on how the Slovak Government and the Slovak authorities intend to completely eliminate pollution? Have you had an insight into the remedial plans, what steps the Slovak Government is planning to take to remedy the damage, and have you been able to provide guarantees? I would also like to ask what has the Hungarian Government, Minister Palkovics, and Minister Péter Szijjártó done to protect our rivers, besides Minister István Nagy? And here I also think very strongly about the serious pollution of the Transylvanian tributaries of the Tisza, because sometimes even more serious, even more dangerous materials get in there. I am very sorry that neither the Slovak Minister for the Environment nor the Hungarian Minister of the Environment took the time to go to the seriously polluted section of Sajó, but instead a video conference was held. Earlier, Minister, he posted that he was not competent in Slovakia. I think, and this should be emphasised a few days after the day of national integration, that in the event of such a serious pollution, we are all competent, we have a shared responsibility to safeguard our common natural resources, and the Slovak government's idleness does not reduce but increases our responsibility. We are talking about pollution in the highlands, and after the day of national integration, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We're a few days away... But then I'll continue this in my rejoinder. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-07-85	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas. Here you go.
u2022-06-07-86	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, two weeks ago you asked this question here in Parliament, and then Dr. István Nagy, Minister of Agriculture, visited Slovakia. I would like to share with you a few thoughts on this discussion with the Slovak Minister for the Environment Ján Budaj. The Minister confirmed that the supervision of the mining sector does not belong to him, but also informed the competent Ministry of Economy and the Government. The anti-abuse and remediation work has started or has been monitored by Sajó; he does not know what kind of intervention the miners have taken, but he has filed a criminal complaint against an unknown unsub in this case with the Slovak authorities. [[16.10]] The mining service and its predecessors neglected their duties as Minister of the Environment, but could not change the situation. The Slovak environmental agency monitors water quality weekly. After May 9, there was another measurement on May 30, the results of which will be shared with us. It's kind of a weird situation that it takes so long after a test, and we still don't get any results from it. At the same time, the Minister clearly acknowledged that there was an ecological disaster, and the result is the damage to the mine that we knew about. It has agreed to take the most important measures within a 15-day time limit. With regard to the related damage to animal and plant species, he was able to say that after proper surveys, Sajó will also be able to be cleaned. These statements, I must say, are not entirely reassuring to me, and even a little vague in the sense that such progress is actually taking place. During the hearing Minister stressed that the issue of pollution of the river Sajó is an absolute priority, an issue requiring immediate action, as the pressure is becoming more visible, even in the areas of public opinion, internal policy and international communication. Of course, we must also take into account the fact that we cannot interfere with Slovak domestic affairs in this respect, but at the same time we must keep an eye on these events. Minister pointed out that if the Slovak government, the Slovak environmental authorities, needed any support and offered any support, we unfortunately have quite serious experience in this, and by sharing these experiences and providing assistance through the agricultural government, the Hungarian government can also provide assistance. I would mention that, since the date of the imposition of the alert, the water quality values do not exceed the water flow limit for the results obtained by on-site instrument measurements. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-06-07-87	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. I will ask Mr László Lóránt Keresztes to accept the State Secretary's answer.
u2022-06-07-88	Thank you, Mr. President. Unfortunately, I can't accept the answer. At the same time, we agree that this debate of competence between the Ministry of Environment and Economic Affairs in Slovakia has been unacceptable, even unqualified, for months. However, I believe that, on the one hand, it is our moral duty to act in order to protect our common natural resources, but here, too, there are legal possibilities for the government, which can be derived from border agreements. So I think that on the day after the disaster started, this contact should not have been made at a video conference, but in person, and indeed the government should have demanded immediate remedial action with extreme determination. What is happening there in the town of Alsajó is that the water from the sources is being diverted, and in this way the amount of discharge or discharge is reduced by 80 percent, while filtration equipment should also be installed, which, according to my information, could be carried out in a few weeks. So we have the technology, but the Slovak party doesn't. The Hungarian government, I feel, is not hard enough, the institutional system is lacking and environmental diplomacy is completely lacking. So I think that the Hungarian government has plenty of work to do to protect the rivers, both the Sajó and the Transylvanian tributaries of the Tisza. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2022-06-07-89	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Member did not accept the State Secretary's reply, and therefore, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Mónika Bartos, representative of Fidesz, has submitted an interpellation to the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade:.. How can the security of our country be preserved in the shadow of the war in Ukraine? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Secretary Tamás Menczer will answer you. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-06-07-90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Hungary condemns Russian military intervention against Ukraine. Hungary, but I can safely say, has only one interest in Europe: peace as soon as possible. It is clear that as a direct neighbour of the war-torn Ukraine and as the mother country of the Hungarian minority in Transcarpathia, we need to take particular account of all the decisions related to the war, bearing in mind the interests of ending the fights as soon as possible and creating peace, but above all the security of our country and of the Hungarian people. Our cooperation with our allies is still undisturbed in the ongoing reconciliation of interests. There is no reason to be sober and to see that anyone who stirs up tension during a war is not doing so for peace. From time to time, the attempts to involve our country in the conflict are also clear. Previously, they demanded the supply of weapons; now they are asking why we do not stand up for Ukraine at the risk of our own economic stability. Perhaps the most brutal example of such experiments so far has been a recent statement from the Ukrainian energy minister's advisor, who said that it would be good to have something happen to the pipeline that transports oil through Ukraine to Hungary. We continue to categorically reject the suggestion that Hungary should send weapons or soldiers to Ukraine. We continue to insist that the security and stability of the Hungarian people and the country cannot be the subject of a deal in such a situation. It is interesting to see, however, that those who impose all this on us along some misinterpreted moral superiority completely ignore what Hungary is actually doing in this situation. Many have decided to flee the war and leave Ukraine. In response, the government launched Hungary's largest humanitarian aid action so far, thus helping those arriving to us. I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to this, so that they can see the full picture when they think of the war, its consequences or Hungary's involvement. And I would like to point out that there is special thanks and respect for all those involved in the helping work. After all, I would like to ask, Mr Secretary of State, how we can maintain Hungary's security in the current situation, how it appreciates the political attacks on our country, and what steps are needed to overcome the divisive political games in the interests of peace. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Dr. Simon Miklós applauds.]]
u2022-06-07-91	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As I said, Secretary of State Tamás Menczer will answer you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-06-07-92	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Indeed, as you have pointed out, the Hungarian government is in favour of peace, and we are in favour of peace. Before the war broke out, we said that everything must be done to preserve peace. Unfortunately, the war has begun, and we continue to say that everything must be done to restore peace, to work for peace, and not for war. Therefore, we are proposing an immediate ceasefire, we expect and we are doing everything we can in international fora, and we are supporting peace negotiations. Undoubtedly, the peace talks have not brought us any results until now, but we believe that this is the only way, the negotiated way, the only possible and the right way to bring us to peace. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As far as attacks are concerned, if you permit them, staying in the country or at least for the first time within our borders: there is an important difference between the Hungarian government and the Hungarian left. In particular, and this difference also appears in general, specifically in connection with the war, and this is the most important one, since it is about war and peace, life and death, the safety of the Hungarian people and Hungary. So this difference is that the Hungarian government is guided by the Hungarian interest, the security of the Hungarian people and the country in every decision, and the Hungarian left unfortunately does not deal with it, and is actually doing it against it. Here's a probably incomplete collection in front of me. Ferenc Gyurcsány, leader of the Hungarian left, said that we are a lousy nation if we do not send soldiers to war. Péter Márki-Zay, the candidate for Prime Minister of the Left, also said that he would send soldiers and weapons, if it were up to him, in this war conflict. András Fekete-Győr also called for the sending of weapons in the days and days, not to mention Bence of Turdai. And then we could probably continue with that list, although it's clear to everyone that sending a gun is the front door to the war that sends weapons, and it's already in the war with one foot. The sending of arms and the sending of soldiers would jeopardise the security of Hungary, which is why the Hungarian government is saying no, as it would also jeopardise the security of the country, and also the security of Hungarians living in Transcarpathia. And let us not forget that on 3 April there was a clear decision by the Hungarian people, and the Hungarian people supported the government on this policy and this decision. [[16.20]] In fact, the decision of the Hungarian people can also be expressed as a clear expectation. They said, supporting the government and the ruling parties, that we must stay out of this war, and that the security of this country requires that we not send soldiers and weapons into the war, because this war, as you have referred to it, is indeed very important, is happening in our neighbourhood. There are 150,000 Hungarian communities in Transcarpathia, at least in peacetime, so we have very serious, serious and strong reasons for peace. Perhaps even more, which is also part of the country's security, economic and energy security, that we do not support any sanctions which, unfortunately, we are once again in favour of the left, i.e. that it is regrettable that they are in favour of them, which are sanctions and which decisions would jeopardise the energy supply in Hungary, because we must also maintain our own security and strength in order to otherwise be able to provide help, because this is the only way that assistance can be imagined. More than 740-750 thousand people have already arrived, and outward assistance is also ongoing. So, as long as we have this government, we will stay out of the war despite all internal and external pressures. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-07-93	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congresswoman Mónika Bartos to accept the Secretary of State's answer. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-06-07-94	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, I accept the answer. Unfortunately, we do see that the prolonged Russian-Ukrainian war is already having very serious effects on Europe and Hungary, and indeed, the Hungarian people are on the side of peace. We can grow and grow in peace, we can care for our families and care for our families, and it is very good to see that the Government of Hungary is doing everything in its power to protect our achievements so far: the result of the reduction of the rent, the result of the family support, the pensions, and it does want to ensure the security of Hungary's energy supply by all means so that we can preserve the results of our lives and the results achieved, and thank you very much for that. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-07-95	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Congresswoman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Representative László Földi, representative of KDNP, has submitted an interview with the Minister of Finance: It's an address. Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that Deputy Minister András Tállai will answer you. Speak for Congressman László Earth, please.
u2022-06-07-96	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Following the fall of the bad memory left-wing governments pushing Hungary to the brink of bankruptcy, in 2010, the Fidesz-KDNP government was determined to protect pensioners from the adverse consequences of unpredictable global economic effects. In the framework of this effort, the government will periodically make a pension increase at least equal to the rate of inflation and return the 13th month pension taken by the left. When the performance of the economy made it possible, a pension premium was paid, and the reduction of the rent has already spared Hungarian families, including our retired countrymen, significant expenses. The latter measure also managed to provide a reasonable framework for significantly increasing public utility costs in Europe. At the same time, the price stop introduced was used to prevent the increase of the basic foods specified. With the measures taken, the government has not only made a one-off adjustment in all of them, but also raised an umbrella above pensioners that provides them with permanent protection, taking into account the effects of the ever-changing economic environment and the uncertainty caused by the war, and in the long term ensures the preservation of the real value of pensions. Dear Secretary of State, It would be a mistake to forget that the left-wing government, led by Ferenc Gyurcsány, abandoned the elderly in a crisis and tried to make people pay for the consequences of their own lies and mistakes. Not only did they not care about preserving the real value of pensions, but in 2009 they also took away one month's pensions from 2.2 million people. As a result of confrontation with their own mistakes, they do not show restraint or self-criticism, but rather oppose the decision of the Hungarians on 3 April and put under attack the government measures taken in the interest of the people, which also benefit from the support of the people, demonstrating that they, as they have never done, do not intend to defend the Hungarians today. Dear Secretary of State, The Russian-Ukrainian war struck a serious blow to the barely recovering European economy caused by Covid's trauma. Energy prices and the release of inflation are affecting all segments of the domestic economy, and we are witnessing serious price increases. Therefore, I ask Mr Secretary of State: can pensions be protected against price increases? I look forward to your reply. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2022-06-07-97	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Deputy Minister András Tállai. Here you go.
u2022-06-07-98	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As you said, one of the main policy objectives of the government is to preserve the value of pensions. This was said in 2010 by the Fidesz-KDNP government, since then it has been 12 years, and it has been able to fulfill its promise every year. It's not easy to do something like that. After 2010, it was difficult because the performance of the economy was not yet adequate, economic growth was low, it was difficult for the country to turn to a growing economic path to produce the source of this promise. We will see today, the situation has changed, and now it is high inflation that makes this promise difficult. Since 2010, the purchasing value of pensions has increased by 10 percent, with a total increase of 59.3% if the July correction is included. The law ensures the preservation of the real value of pensions, since the increase in pension rates in January is the same as the increase in consumer prices, and the addition is made in November, i.e. the retroactive increase in pensions in the event that inflation was higher than planned in the budget at the beginning of the year. This was also the case in 2021, as the 3 percent increase in January resulted in an additional increase of 0.6 per cent, and then in November the government re-enhanced pensions by 1.2 per cent. From January 2022, instead of the 3 percent laid down in the Finance Act, the government finally increased pensions by 5 percent and, as we know, a 3.9 percent increase will be made from July to January pensions, with a total increase of 8.9 percent for the 13th month pension. You also spoke about the 13th month pension: let's just think about what debt the government can repay to pensioners by getting the 13th month pension taken away by the socialists back in full. However, while maintaining the value of pensions, as has been said, the government provides a pension premium, Erzsébet provides a voucher for pensioners. A significant amount has been secured for this purpose over the last five years. We can also say that, unfortunately, opposition representatives have not voted for any such additions. Honourable Congressman, The government will continue to pursue this policy, protect pensioners' pensions, preserve their real value, whatever the rate of inflation. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[16.30]]
u2022-06-07-99	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister, Secretary of State. I will now ask Mr László Földi to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-07-100	Yes, I accept Mr. Secretary of State's reply. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for the signals you have put in order to preserve the value and value of pensions, as I have experienced that I have seven or eight settlements, villages, where there are quite a lot of retired people, and when we get together with these people on a village day, for example, they do appreciate that the government and this Parliament are not only dealing with young people, but also the elderly. These people have worked their whole lives, spent 40 to 50 years in work, and even live among them, thank God, who had been in World War II, even in captivity, and are the key issue of caring for them today. Thanks again for the answer, and I'll take it. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-07-101	Thank you very much, Congressman. As we have heard, Congressman has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Ladies and gentlemen, It's 16:31. We're at the end of the interpellations. We're gonna take a minute to take a technical break, and after a minute of technical break, we're gonna have an instant questioning hour. [[It's a short break.]] Thank you very much. I now have on my monitor a list of speakers for immediate questioning hours, so that we can proceed accordingly. Dear Parliament, MEPs Ágnes Vadai and Olga Kálmán, representatives of DK, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What do you think, Prime Minister? It's an address. Honourable Mrs Kálmán Olga, I would like to call on you to respond to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Balázs Orbán, political director, I respectfully ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally. (In the notary seat, Dezső the Believer Replaced by Sándor Szabó.)
u2022-06-07-102	Thank you. I can't deprive us of the experience of waiting for the Prime Minister to answer, so I won't accept it. Thank you.
u2022-06-07-103	Thank you very much. I also respectfully inform you that house rules give you only a very-noble answer, but there is no problem [[Kálmán Olga: No! Defiance from DK's ranks.]] Next time you'll know for sure. Thank you very much. Congressman Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question, "Why do you want to abolish katás tax?" It's an address. I would like to inform you, honourable Member, that Mr András Tállai, Deputy Minister of State, will answer you. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-06-07-104	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Deputy Minister, Although we have not yet been able to hear you speak straight, and you have not yet heard from you, it seems almost certain that, in your current form, you will abolish catalysmic taxation, the preferential method of taxation for the smallest businesses. You may not have to assume that the abolition of a preferential tax method, as well as the introduction of a new tax, even if they lie at times, is a restrictive measure, since those who have paid reduced taxes will increase their tax payments in the future. In Debrecen, in a mall the other day, a young man in his 30s approached me and asked me to interpret and prevent the removal of the cat, otherwise he and his family would simply be ruined. This young man told me that he was a carpenter and a roofer, but I have to add, he could be a stonemason and ballet dancer, it doesn't matter, and that he became a self-employed cat, and it's the only way to tax by the end of the month, so somehow, for the family, mathematics comes out, they can give the child something else on the table. He doesn't have any credit, he works almost every day, mostly even on weekends, and he feels like he can't do more than that to make a living and make a living for his family. If you erase the Kata, you say you can choose two things in any case, or you can close the blinds, and you can go to a load-up or some other employee's job, or you'll do everything the way you've done before, only black and illegally, until you've been caught. I'm not sure, but I didn't ask, and he didn't tell me he wasn't gonna choose the latter. You will also present decent Hungarian people, small businesses, family businesses and self-employed people with such decisions. You're poking around in the pockets of people who are happy to come out of their money at the end of the month while working hard all month. I ask Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Deputy Minister, why they want to wipe out the Kata, why they are digging into the pockets of small entrepreneurs, when the Prime Minister's father has now, in recent days, taken billions of forints of public money from his own company. Thank you, and I look forward to your reply. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-07-105	Thank you very much, Congressman. State Secretary András Tállai will answer the question. Here you go.
u2022-06-07-106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, let's get something straight. This cataclysm, which has become so popular, that more than 400 thousand people have already been taxed in this form, is entirely an invention of the Fidesz-KDNP government and was introduced on 1 January 2013. Although you were not a Member of Parliament at the time, I will tell you that the group of the MSZP did not support, voted against, and voted against the introduction of such a form of taxation. But the kata changed several times over the years, it became more favourable, it became a limit increase to HUF 12 million. I'll tell you, neither DK nor the MSZ have ever supported this. So you're asking for a change in the tax system that you didn't support, obviously not because of political reasons, but because you didn't think it was good, then it wasn't good. Now that you're meeting a man at the store, it's a good thing you're staying. I can tell you that kata is a very good, proven method, because in difficult times, it has helped small businesses to have a real business, so that they can start their business, so that they can run it. The catalog, yeah, it worked. It worked, but now times have changed, ten years have passed, and it will be reviewed. That's what the government's thinking, nothing more. There is no such thing as termination or abolition at this time. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-07-107	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. A one-minute rejoinder will be given to Congressman Zoltán Varga. Here you go.
u2022-06-07-108	Dear Secretary of State, I saw that he answered, because his mouth was moving, but I couldn't really understand what you wanted, because he didn't deny the restriction, nor that he was going to abolish the Kata in his present form. And such austerity would never be done by a legitimate and responsible government, no matter what he says. A government, manipulating the public, distorting the electoral system, ruling in fear of its own citizens in the country, can, of course, do so for a long time until the streets are filled with angry people, yet I would advise you, the illegitimate government: away from decent Hungarian small and family businesses... [[The president's gonna turn the mike off. Zoltán Varga will continue his comment without any tone. Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-07-109	Thank you very much. I'll tell Congressman I've taken the floor from you in the meantime. I am forced to do so under the house rules or under our Fundamental Law. We have such a loudspeaker system that, nevertheless, Congressman has said all that he wanted to say. [[16.40]] That is why, with all due respect, I am asking the Deputy Minister to respond in the context of a one-minute rejoinder. [[On the mark of András Tállai:]] Here you go.
u2022-06-07-110	Honourable Congressman, So you're going to defend and petition for what this government has set up and you're against it. If you can do this with regard to Kata, you should also pay attention to other government measures, because you must also stand up for other government measures when it is introduced, when it works. Believe me, you will find a lot of these in the course of 12 years, and in the end you will find yourself conflicting that you do not support the decision-making process, and then you will realize that it was not a bad decision, or even a positive decision for the people, for the entrepreneurs. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-07-111	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister, Secretary of State. Dear House, I would like to inform you, all of you, that the Prime Minister must respond to the immediate question of Mrs Ágnes Vadai and Mrs Olga Kálmán at the hour of the third immediate question. I forgot to tell you this, so I'm going to use self-criticism to tell you this. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Jakab and Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát Group Leader and Deputy Group Leader, the representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think of this, Prime Minister? It's an address. I am now asking Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát: because of the Prime Minister's absence, Balázs Orbán has given him the right to reply. I respectfully ask you to accept the person of the responding person or to ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally. Here you go.
u2022-06-07-112	Mr President, I respectfully await the Prime Minister's reply.
u2022-06-07-113	Thank you very much. I would also like to inform you that the Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. With all due respect, Congressman, it's your turn again. Dear Parliament, Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister for Economic Development an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Minister? It's an address. I would like to inform you, honourable Member, that Secretary of State János Fónagy will answer you. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-06-07-114	With all due respect, I'll wait for the Minister, if that's possible. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2022-06-07-115	Of course, you have the opportunity to do so. Minister must reply at the next hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Mr László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister for Economic Development an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Minister? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, I can only tell you that because of the Minister's absence, he has given the right to answer János Fónagy. I respectfully ask you to accept the identity of the responder.
u2022-06-07-116	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2022-06-07-117	Thank you very much. Mr László György Lukács, who accepted Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, as a reply. Here you go.
u2022-06-07-118	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In recent days, the government has decided on the restrictions that you call extra-profit tax, and which are planned to affect the largest businesses and certain sectors, they are affected by withdrawals. I also think that it is out of the question and you can see it, although you have not yet admitted that most of these extra-profit taxes and burdens will be passed on to the population. It is clear that airlines which, for example, have to pay will make passengers pay for this additional cost. We could ask you, of course, when will László Szíyj or Lőrinc Mészáros pay these extra costs on his private jet, Viktor Orbán, Péter Szijjártó or any of you who fly or apply it. But it's more serious than that. The fact is that in these regulations, you have also adopted a rule that affects the smallest businesses, partly individual entrepreneurs and the smallest social entrepreneurs. This is the possibility of a public burden on simplified employment, because here you have, in essence, made a very serious increase. Overall, this area and simplified employment are typically used by individual entrepreneurs, seasonal or seasonal workers who are usually employed by workers who are either able to work at this stage or who cannot participate in the labour market because of their skills or lack thereof. It is clear that you also want to impose burdens on these small entrepreneurs. The Right-wing Right-wing Right-wing community, and I think all conservative right-wing communities believe that the freedom of enterprise and the full expansion of entrepreneurs must be protected. On the other hand, you wish to smear the smallest ones, and the change in the rules of the cataclysms mentioned here is not good for them either. So the question arises why they want to take it away from the smallest, why they hide the very serious withdrawal for the small ones in these regulations, how many billions they want to collect from individual businesses and from the smallest social entrepreneurs through austerity. I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-06-07-119	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, Deputy Minister of State. Here you go.
u2022-06-07-120	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, If you have read the laws and the press that have already been published in this regard, in part, you can see that these measures are essentially designed to protect the country's security, families, pensioners, jobs and reduction of the rent. These measures are basically designed to ensure that those extra-profits that have been created without performance, created solely by the situation that there is an economic crisis, that there is a war, that energy prices have gone into the world, use these unearned profits for public purposes that are in the interest of society as a whole. I suppose you do not dispute that the prolonged war and the energy crisis will lead to another global economic crisis, nor do you dispute that the war and Brussels policy together are responsible for rising prices. Nor does he dispute, I believe, that it is the government's duty to protect families, the reduction of the rent, pensions, security. Therefore, the government believes, and even believes, that companies that profit and profit in the war situation can be expected to help Hungarian society contribute to the protection costs of the country. That's why the government created the Rehabilitation and Defence Fund. The government's action is essentially aimed at these purposes, not those which you have listed. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-07-121	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, Deputy Minister. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr László György Lukács. Here you go.
u2022-06-07-122	Dear Secretary of State, The 100% increase in the public burden of simplified employment is neither in nor in proportion to the crisis caused by the war and the extra-profit. Entrepreneurs who are going to pay for this are typically the smallest rural businesses who usually employ people who have no other option or need work because of seasonal work. You want to take money from their costs and their money instead of taking money from the really big ones, they're going to take money from the smallest businesses. And if you really wanted to help them, you wouldn't be doing this, you would be helping to preserve their jobs, or you would help the public to introduce the zero-percent basic food tax, which right-wing conservative Jobbik demands from you, and with the introduction of the social card, they would protect the population from having to pay VAT on Europe's record, and at least their salary would be worth something and wouldn't inflame and at least be able to save money in some way. You are reacting not to the crisis caused by the war by taking away from businesses, but only in some way by taking money from them, and also from those who do not want to take this money. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-06-07-123	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr János Fónagy State Secretary, Deputy Minister, has a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go. [[16.50]]
u2022-06-07-124	Congressman, I'm afraid we're gonna talk side by side, you're not hearing what I'm saying, and you're not gonna acknowledge what I'm saying. The withdrawal of the extra-profit affects banks, especially the large ones, insurance companies, large retail companies, the large energy traders, the large companies that acquire extra-profits, and not, in any way, against small entrepreneurs or low-income companies. [[Dr. László György Lukács intervenes.]] What you are talking about, for example, is creating jobs: Member, we have created nearly one million jobs in ten years. I think if I can't expect you to acknowledge that, at least don't ask me to do the opposite. Thank you for asking me the honor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-07-125	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman András Fekete-Győr, Head of the Momentum Group, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Can the government enter the same river twice? It's an address. Dear Chief of Staff, Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán gave him the right to reply. I respectfully ask you, accept the person who is responding, or ask the Prime Minister himself for an answer. Here you go.
u2022-06-07-126	I'm afraid this is going to be a relaxing day for Balázs Orbán, waiting for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-07-127	Thank you very much. I am obliged to draw your attention to the fact that, as the leader of the group, you have to choose between these two words and simplify this rule of the house, but you will be able to do it. Thank you very much. I respectfully inform you, Mr Group Leader, and this House that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. [[It's a short break.]] I'm waiting for the responder. [[Dr. László György Lukács: I am happy to respond in the Rétvári style! I've got the panels in my head! Sándor Farkas intervenes. Interventions in opposition ranks. It's a short break.]] I, Honourable House, am not in a position to appoint anyone instead of the responder. [[Intercoms from the opposition. Dr. Balázs Orbán: We can handle it, of course!]] Responder is not present at this moment [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] However, the question of Kristóf Tompos should be addressed. [[Tamás Menczer takes his place as Secretary of State.]] The responder has arrived. [[Interview from the Momentum: Good afternoon.]] Revenge is also my job, so my fellow Members do not have to do this. There must have been a good reason for the Secretary of State, because he is particularly precise that this has not happened now. Dear Parliament, Mr Márton Kristóf Tompos, representative of the Momentum, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question: what was the response of the KKM? It's an address. As I said, we were waiting for Secretary of State Tamás Menczer, he is present, and he will answer you, Congressman. Mr Márton Tompos, the floor belongs to Congressman Kristóf. Here you go.
u2022-06-07-128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, At the end of March this year, due to Direkt36's fact-finding material, the country learned that Russian state hacker groups have been attacking Hungarian infrastructure and our IT systems for more than ten years now. Unfortunately, the material also shows that they succeeded, they managed to hack the entire external infrastructure before 2013, they were on the State Department's machines, they were on the foreign representation machines, and they were also on the machines of protected objects. This means that all information, including personal data, corporate data, confidential data, is something that is specifically internal, meaning a report of diplomatic action or perhaps any instruction from the center, all of which has been in the hands of the Russians, and even what the EU and NATO partners have shared with us towards Hungary, to the foreign affairs. But the Russians went even further, they had the nerve to integrate the Hungarian machines into the Russian zombie network, i.e. they attacked our EU and NATO partners through Hungarian machines. Now, on the basis of available information, honourable Members, this problem has been resolved by 2013, but the Russians have succeeded again in 2016, and I think it will be clear from this point on that this is a national security risk that has existed for years. I'm sure they'll correct you in this matter. I believe that this is a matter beyond party policy, and it is in all our interests that a third power, a Russian aggressor, should not access secret Hungarian foreign documents or even any Hungarian document. So my question to the State Department representative is, since you've honored us with what you've done! The Ministry of Foreign Affairs [[The president's ringing the bell.]] In order to restore the integrity of the IT system, what he did to restore Russian diplomatic relations, he indicated this to Russia and that he had signalled to the EU and NATO partners that the Hungarian foreign affairs system had been compromised. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of DK and Momentum.]]
u2022-06-07-129	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from Secretary of State Tamás Men-czer. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-06-07-130	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I'd like to apologize for my last moment of arrival, for the rude gesture, and more specifically, it's not up to me, so I'd like to apologize. And on the subject, I would like to inform the honourable Member that we are entering... So one step back: Hungary is not on the moon, because of our geographical and other situation, there have been attempts to penetrate, pressure attempts, there are and there will be also from the east and from the west. On the one hand, we are not alone in Europe or in the world. We can remember who not only wanted the former German Chancellor, but who listened to him, so there are, there are, and there will be, these types of actions. The task of the Hungarian specialist services is to act against them and to avert them. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs always acts according to the Hungarian interest, which is the case, if we notice such a thing, we signal the appropriate bodies that do their work. At the same time, honourable Member, I think it is a more serious issue, although it is undoubtedly important that what you raise is that we must fight against foreign influence, whether from the east or from the west, this is undoubtedly the case and an important question; I think it is an even more important question:..., on the one hand, how credible you represent this, and, on the other hand, that a Hungarian parliamentary party should represent the Hungarian interests and not represent foreign interests. I would like to point out that I am convinced, and more importantly, that you and your party are not credible in raising this issue, either, because [[Intercoms from the Momentum. The president's ringing the bell.]] if you were in the interests of Hungary if you were in the interests of Hungary! Then you could show it well when there is a war going on in our neighborhood, but you are not representing the Hungarian interest. This is also shown by the fact that your faction leader the other day was talking about transporting weapons to our neighbor's war, and this is obviously contrary to...
u2022-06-07-131	Secretary of State...
u2022-06-07-132	...of the Hungarian interest. By the way, the Hungarian people made it clear on 3 April that the...
u2022-06-07-133	Secretary of State...
u2022-06-07-134	...weapon transport [[The president's gonna turn the mike off.]] against the Hungarian interest in the war and endangers...
u2022-06-07-135	Secretary of State, I was forced to take the floor because two minutes is the time frame of the first step... [[Tamás Menczer: Then we will have something to continue with!]] We're not in the four-minute window right now, we're in an immediate situation. No problem, you'll have a chance to finish in a one-minute rejoinder. [[Tamás Menczer: That's right!]] I would now respectfully ask Congressman Márton Tompos to accept the Secretary of State's answer... [[Interventions and publicity in the opposition.]] No, now it's your turn to rejoinder.
u2022-06-07-136	Yeah, yeah, yeah. I don't mind that you've gone over time, Mr. Secretary, I totally understand, I've gone overboard, but I'm very sorry that in two and a half minutes we didn't get an answer to any of the questions, even though I gave you the opportunity, there were three different questions. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) [[17.00]] If you like, Mr. President, I'll even give you the rest of my time frame. I would like to repeat the questions: what has the State Department done to restore the integrity of the system? What has Hungarian diplomacy done to Russia? How was this indicated? And I'm not talking about Péter Szijjártó taking the Order of Merit for Friendship at the end of December last year, but serious diplomatic steps. Did you also indicate to the EU and NATO partners that the system was compromised? Please try to answer these questions this minute. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the lines of Momentum and Dialogue.]]
u2022-06-07-137	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Menczer.
u2022-06-07-138	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The Ministry of Foreign Affairs did what it was supposed to do, which I referred to at the beginning of my reply, and I regret that this is not satisfactory for you, and we will continue to act in the future as required by Hungarian interests and national security issues. At the same time, if I may, I would like to call attention once again to the fact that, if there is any way, you should act within your party so as not to encourage the supply of weapons, nor to support economic actions and sanctions that would destroy the Hungarian economy and the sure Hungarian energy supply. One more thing, if it is a Hungarian interest, so to conclude: please also act in relation to the fact that Momentum does not act against foreign Hungarians. If they could do this, I listed three of them here, then they could finally act authenticly in defense of the Hungarian interest, and this is not the case. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-07-139	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Tamás Menczer. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title "The Issues of the Current." The Prime Minister does not reply personally, because of his absence, Balázs Orbán gave the right to reply to the political director. I ask Mr Tamás Harangozó, whether he will accept the person of the response or ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2022-06-07-140	I'll take it.
u2022-06-07-141	He'll take it. You have the floor, Secretary of State Tamás Harangozó... Congressman.
u2022-06-07-142	It's a matter of time. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Indeed, the issue is relevant, since the decommissioning ban on the law enforcement authorities ended on 1 June, and although it was only a few days before the long weekend of Pentecost, according to our information, the number of requests for decommissioning of colleagues has already started. The problem is really big, we've been talking about this for a very long time, there are nearly 4,000 vacant jobs in the police department, and according to official government statistics, there are 90 percent uploads. You shouldn't be surprised, because a novice policeman still doesn't bring home 200,000 forints, and some people don't take home more than 250-300,000 forints after decades of service. It's not a career, it's not a profession, it's a honourable political director, or I don't know how to address it, it's going to help. My first question is that the government is aware of the number of people who have initiated their decommissioning in the first few days. My second question, obviously, is what the government intends to do to prevent this from happening. What the government intends to do is not to choose the most expensive solution possible, so that the trained, equipped people who fall in love with this profession are released massally and then try to find a replacement solution. About the replacement act, Mr. political director, according to our information, 460 people have applied for a total of deputy officers' training, compared to 3 thousand in 2014 and 1700 in 2018. So basically, they're not even gonna be able to hire qualified people to replace the people they've just let go. I would also like to ask on behalf of the Prime Minister that you understand, you feel the problem, and if you do, what you want to do now. Thank you for your answer. [[A rare applause in the ranks of MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2022-06-07-143	Thank you, Congressman Bellozó. I give the floor to political director Balázs Orbán.
u2022-06-07-144	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, For the Government of Hungary, security is the most important Community value, so the government will continue to do everything in its power to strengthen public security in the past 12 years and beyond. Allow me to give you some numbers. In 2010 we spent 449 billion forints on police protection and public security, this figure reached 992 billion forints by 2022, more than doubled the cost. By the way, similar numbers of defense show a quadruple increase. Obviously, it is not without context that the number of crimes has never been nearly as low as it is today. Since 2010, we have carried out the exchange of 6,000 service cars, only to show that we are trying to ensure the necessary conditions for the quality of law enforcement personnel, the number of police stations has increased by 16 since 2010, and unlike what you said in your speech, there are 3500 more policemen in Hungary than there were in 2010. Of course, we will do everything we can to express the financial recognition of soldiers and police officers as quickly as possible and as strongly as possible. On average, between 2010 and 20, police wages increased by more than 60 percent, and from the beginning of this year we were able to pay six months' arms money to professional staff. What you have said is true that there has been a notice of termination in the event of an emergency, which has also ceased with the end of the emergency due to the pandemic, but there is no threat to the stability of the stock. Thank you very much for the floor. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-07-145	Thank you very much, political director Balázs Orbán. I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Harangozó in return.
u2022-06-07-146	Thank you for the floor. Dear Political Director, But, he's endangering you, you've been strongly misinformed. Do you know what threatens the stability of the stock? If these people get out, we're gonna watch it live. The colleagues will take you home under 200 thousand forints net, so please understand. You can also bring me statistics from 2010 and 1862, it's not normal, it's not a career, it's not a profession! Finally, let me quote something for you, and I would like your answer to that. One of the major tasks in the area of law enforcement is, above all, the organisation of salaries for professional staff. Although my colleagues have received significant one-off support over the past period, I would like it to be regular and incorporated into their monthly supplies. This requires adequate government support and adequate parliamentary support. I ask the Members, the committee, to support us in this. Sándor Pintér said that at his hearing before his appointment. I would therefore like to ask you, as the Prime Minister's political director, how the Minister of the Interior has political support to get a decent salary increase in the area of police protection. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2022-06-07-147	Thank you very much, Congressman Bellozó. The political director is also entitled to a rejoinder.
u2022-06-07-148	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, The thing is, you're putting me in a difficult position because you're bringing an extremely important case here, between the walls of this House. In this respect, I can only confirm once again what I have just said, that we believe that public security is the most important value, and we are doing everything we can to strengthen the respect of the members of the professional staff, and I have included financial appreciation. You're putting me in a difficult position because, by the way, you're bringing up this important issue, but the way you're talking about it, it's everything but credible. Before 2010, you have dismantled the police force and, by the way, the military personnel, pulled funds out of this system, marched paramilitary organizations in the country, and then, in order not only to talk about 2010, attacked police officers when they had to take up border protection and were constantly attacked in the context of the crisis related to the coronal virus. The biggest threat to the stock is the return of the left and its political guardianship, unfortunately that is the case. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-07-149	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, László Toroczkai, representative of Mi Hazank, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: When will he finally deal with what is really important? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán gave him the right to reply. I ask Mr Toroczkai, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2022-06-07-150	Mr President, I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister.
u2022-06-07-151	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the third immediate question. [[17.10]] Dear Parliament, László Toroczkai, representative of Mi Hazank, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: Due to the Minister's absence, Mr Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I ask Mr Toroczkai, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister for his answer in person.
u2022-06-07-152	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2022-06-07-153	You have the floor, Congressman Toroczkai.
u2022-06-07-154	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The last time I spoke about the situation at the southern border here in the Parliament, I promised to publish evidence about the state of war at the Hungarian-Serbian border, which is only partially reported by the media. Since then, I have also kept this promise and published these evidences, partly police recordings, and also made public on my YouTube channel, where an investigation has already been ordered in relation to cases where armed atrocities on the Hungarian-Serbian border have now become commonplace. This means, in particular, that they appear on the Serbian side of the border, the Hungarian fence, so on the other side of the border lock, are the masked criminals, mostly Afghan and Pakistani criminals, who organize illegal migration and operate in a mafia manner. They are no longer migrants, because they are not intended to enter the European Union, but they live and organise migration in the border region, especially around Subotica and Sombor. This business is about huge, huge money, and this poses a very serious national security risk for Hungary. Soldiers, or mostly policemen, who serve at the border, have just heard how little wages, otherwise, they are humiliatingly risking their lives for little money when these migrants keep shooting at the air across the border. So my question to the Minister of the Interior is, when will the Ministry of the Interior, whether Minister of State or Minister of the Interior, discuss it with the Serbian colleague [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] How this situation will be resolved, when TEK will be there, and when will the border guards be restored, who will be able to fight against such gangs at the border. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-06-07-155	Thank you very much, Congressman Toroczkai. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2022-06-07-156	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, For the government since 2015, from the very first moment, a very determined and determined intention has been to protect Hungary's southern border, the security of all people from illegal immigration. That is why we have made strict laws, which is why we have built a border fence, and that is why soldiers and policemen are guarding the Hungarian border, so that no one can enter illegally. This was not so clear, and to date it is not, since Brussels supports immigration, illegal migration, but has not helped to protect the border by means of financial means or any other means, and has sent them here to Hungary... When Klára Dobrev said that immigration was a brilliant communication trick, or Ferenc Gyurcsány said that the government built on the worst instincts when building a fence, or Gergely Christmas said that there was no way to build a border fence, they all tried to support Brussels's scenario and prevent political will to defend the border. However, this will remains strong on the part of the government. However, you also draw attention to the fact that every year we can now see that more and more people are trying to cross the Hungarian border illegally. It is well known that, last year, 122 thousand people came, 46,000 people tried to cross the border illegally in the previous year. So, if you look at how the figures for last year's very high number of 122 000 turned out during the year, you can see that more people came this year in proportion than last year. If you look at the number of border crossings, it was 39 thousand between 1 January and 6 June, now 88 thousand, so more than twice as many people came to the Hungarian southern border at the first stage of the year with the aim of illegally crossing the border as they did last year when this number was very high. In two years, as many people have come here as the population of a Hungarian county. And if you look at the human smugglers we caught at the border, that was 455 the year before last, and then last year it was 1277, but if you compare last year's and this year's numbers pro rata time. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] It grew from 361 to 652. So at the Hungarian border, protection is strong, and more and more people are smuggled, more and more people are being captured. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-07-157	Thank you. I give the floor to Congressman Toroczkai for the rejoinder.
u2022-06-07-158	The fact is, Mr. State Secretary, that Hungary is protected primarily from immigration by low wages and salaries and not by the current border closure, because at present nothing else is happening but that the migrants who are caught up in the network of the police or our local government field guard, and then, as a kind of taxi service, the Hungarian police will take the Hungarian taxpayers' money back to the Serbian side of the border, and in a few hours we will see them again; these migrants, as we know, are indeed seeking an increasing number, but primarily towards Western Europe. While you are saying that Hungary and the southern border are being protected, while the police are currently prosecuting against us, personally, and the members of the local government field guard that I previously led, as the SASZ has said, not on the basis of its complaint, so the police are attacking us, who are actually trying to defend the southern border. I would have expected an answer to that question, and specifically, when there would be a border guard, who would have more to do with this kind of border protection than those police officers who would have had business in Borsod County and other parts of the country. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-06-07-159	Thank you, Congressman Toroczkai. I give the floor to the Secretary of State in return.
u2022-06-07-160	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, However, the Hungarian southern border is not protected by you, honourable Member, in one person, but by the Hungarian police and Hungarian soldiers to whom we should thank. So I think it would be better for you to acknowledge, as a first word, the activity you have been doing there since 2015, rather than attacking them. You said the government wasn't helping, for example, field guards. With 170 million forints we support helping the border settlements there. With HUF 371 million, we will reimburse the citizens' border protection costs, because we are really trying to do this for everyone. We expected a lot of things from you today, but you are attacking the fence, saying the words that the Liberals have said, honourable Member. The numbers show that it is good, because it seems to have been able to stop more people this year than in previous years. Obviously, smugglers are looking for other routes, and they may be sending these migrants to Germany, France, but not through Hungary. In Brussels, the left is constantly voting for proposals to return to the first country of entry in many cases. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] migrants entering the European Union illegally. So it doesn't matter if we can protect our own southern border or not. We can protect him, so thank the police and border guards. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-07-161	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Rebecca Szabó, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: what are they doing to ensure that Hungarian fruit and vegetables are really safe? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Sándor Farkas granted the right to reply. I ask the congresswoman, she accepts the person who is responding, or she asks the Minister for the answer in person.
u2022-06-07-162	I accept the identity of the responder.
u2022-06-07-163	Then you have the floor, Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó.
u2022-06-07-164	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, Minister István Nagy, in his recent interview with the World Economy, said that our task is to regulate production, the aim of which is to ensure that safe food is at the end of the chain in sufficient quantity, quality and affordable prices. It was published in May in the recent study of the European Plant Protective Products Action Network, but it turns out that although EU regulations require that 55 of the most harmful pesticides should be withdrawn from use since 2011, the proportion of fruits and vegetables contaminated with them has increased dramatically in the last 10 years, both at EU level and in Hungary. In Hungary, 50 of these plant protection products, which have been withdrawn for 11 years, are still authorised, and unfortunately, there are consequences: for example, 50 percent of the cherry samples from our country have been detected with such harmful chemical residues, but the ratio of chemical residue in the head lettuce produced at home was extremely high, 38 percent, and in the cucumber, which was 32 percent, compared to the EU average, which is much less, only 16 percent. [[17.20]] It is very important to note that all these data are from the national reports, where the official reporting agent is Nébih, so these are actually Nébih data. This report gives a rather sad picture of the reliability of vegetables and fruits, and this is also problematic because of prices, because, as we can see, the price of fruits and vegetables has skyrocketed, we are at a 15-20 percent increase compared to last year. Since today is the world food safety day, it is particularly important and I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State why 50 of the 55 harmful pesticides are still in use here. What are you planning to do to ensure that harmful plant protection products are withdrawn from production as soon as possible and how do you intend to ensure that no harmful residues are contained in the fruit and vegetables that come before consumers? Thank you.
u2022-06-07-165	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas.
u2022-06-07-166	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I would like to ask you not to spread rumors or scares in this House as a first speech, not even for that reason. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Not anywhere else!]] because Hungarian vegetables and fruits are one of the healthiest, safest foods to eat. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] To start scaring you again... there hasn't been an example of this in the last few years in this House, but I remember we used to be on the committee with you as a member of the Agriculture Committee, and then you tried to ask a lot of questions in the same way. The question is okay, I just think it's with the attitude of how we can deter the population. That's what I need to refuse, and I think I'm definitely rejecting it. I'd like to prove a few numbers of what I have to say against what you've basically suggested. In Hungary, the residue levels of 167 processed products, baby food, feed and 2494 fresh vegetable, fruit and cereal samples have been tested by Nebih in the last narrow year, and 1% of samples have been found to be objectionable for residues. I would add that this is 5.1 percent on the EU average. I would just like to mention the difference here. In the absence of alternatives, the so-called substitution active substances mentioned on this issue have also been authorised at EU level, but there is no new plant protection product that replaces these alternative substances. When the Union or researchers get to the point where they can bring in new substances, we will also definitely subtract these substances. But I would like to say this once again: today, a significant part of vegetable gardening is almost chemical-free. Go and have a look. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-07-167	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor back to Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó.
u2022-06-07-168	Dear Secretary of State, This rumour sounds good, but it only looks like the European Food Safety Authority is spreading rumors and the Nebih, who is providing them with data. These data were reviewed for the period from 2011 to 19 and, unfortunately, these data confirmed that too much chemical residue was found in the fruits and vegetables I mentioned. Minister, I understand you're saying that these 55 substances have not been found as substitutes, but I'm asking you, for example, in organic farming, are these substances used. I don't think they're using all 55 substitution chemicals. Then perhaps we should support the government's efforts to make it as chemical-free as possible, for example, organic farming. 'Cause that's not a rumor. I suggest you take a look at this publication, and your colleagues may not have shown you this, because it contains, for example, fungicides, hormonal agents such as Fludioxonil, Tebuconazole, just to give you specifics, the remains of which have actually been found in these fruits and vegetables. I think it's in all of our common interest that we really eat safe foods, but I don't see any guarantees in your response.
u2022-06-07-169	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State.
u2022-06-07-170	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We have also taken a number of measures to improve organic farming. Among these, I would like to highlight the Ecological Action Plan, which sets out what needs to be done in line with the strategic plan of the Common Agricultural Programme between 2022 and.27. But to continue to argue with you, because I would like to confirm how healthy Hungarian fruit and vegetables are, I will give you just a few figures. Use of plant protection products in EU Member States: in Belgium 4.5 kg/ha, in Cyprus 9,8 kg/ha, in the Netherlands 5.1 kg/ha, in Malta 6.5 kg, in Germany 2.7, in Italy 3.7, in Spain 3.1 kg/ha, and then in Hungary 1.5 kg. I think it speaks for itself. Thank you. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-07-171	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "When will the government act?" It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán gave him the right to reply. I ask Mr Péter Ungár to accept the person of the response, or to ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2022-06-07-172	I'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2022-06-07-173	Thank you very much, Congressman. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Similarly, Péter Ungár, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. How long will the state be the worst employer in Hungary? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán gave him the right to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister for an answer in person.
u2022-06-07-174	I'll take it, thank you.
u2022-06-07-175	If you accept, you have the floor, Congressman Péter Ungár.
u2022-06-07-176	Thank you very much for the floor. In recent years, I have been to more than ten social institutions, such as nursing homes and disability institutions in Hungary, and I would like to interpret in a few ways what the leaders of the institution and those who worked there have said in these institutions. The first is that when a staff member retires, which is very often the case, since those who participate in the work of the social sector or other public sector have grown old, it is very difficult to find a staff member in their place, and as a primary reason for this, all institutional leaders have named the issue of wages. This has been said by institutional leaders and economic leaders who have not voted or will not vote for the opposition in their lives, yet they say that, in the social sector in particular, there is a wage situation in which there will not be enough people to operate this sector. I ask you to explain why, without the names of previous prime ministers or the return of different historical data, it is okay for more than half of the civil servants in Hungary to receive the same salary as the guaranteed minimum wage, explain why it is okay that at present a graduate teacher, elderly caregiver, or even half or a quarter of those working in law enforcement, and explain why you think it is okay for a social worker, a teacher, a law enforcement worker, to earn less than a year ago, because all these 10-20% wage increases were carried away by inflation. Please explain this without mentioning different Hungarian personal names or other Hungarian citizens. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-07-177	Thank you very much, Congressman Péter Ungár. I give the floor to political director Balázs Orbán.
u2022-06-07-178	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, He was very limited in my answer, because he also told me what I can't talk about and what I can talk about, but under these circumstances, I try to balance. I hope you'll be pleased with the answer. [[Peter Ungár: Me too!]] As I listened to your speech, I looked into what we were doing in wage matters. If we are talking about the sector of the national economy in general, in March 2022 the gross average salary was HUF 511,000, the net average salary was HUF 340 thousand, and since 2010, there has been a 70 percent net increase in earnings. This is linked to the increase in the minimum wage, which is also 200 thousand forints from January 2022, the guaranteed minimum wage is 260 thousand forints. Compared to 2010, the average wage of those working in the social sector mentioned by you has tripled, and nurses have increased by 20 percent from 1 January 2022, by 20 percent the wages of daycare workers, social and cultural workers and by 10 percent the wages of teachers. [[17 .30]] The government has promised to do everything in its power to continue to increase wages in these sectors, both before and this time. If your question is that these wages are sufficient, then we think they are not. If your question is that we have to work to keep the wages up, then my answer is yes. We have acted in this spirit over the past 12 years, and we will continue to act in this spirit. He also mentioned inflation, where I would like to ask your political alliance, first of all, to stop attacking price-stop measures that will help those working in the public sector in this difficult situation. That would be point zero, the ideal starting position. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-07-179	Thank you, political director Balázs Orbán. Mr Péter Ungár has a rejoinder.
u2022-06-07-180	Mr. Political Director, I do not know how there exists a breathing public servant living in Hungary who makes HUF 340 thousand net. I think, let's say, if you come with me to a county-righted retirement home, the head of the institution, if you've been in employment for 25 years, maybe earning that much, there's no living, breathing person out there with a salary above 300,000 forints. So this statistics you have said may be good for something, to describe the Hungarian material reality, not so much. The fact is that the wage situation in the public sector is low because that is your policy. This was said by John Lazarus. You have returned to the government again; it seems that you have repeatedly and always agreed that he believes that there should be 300,000 fewer civil servants and that there should be less money for the civil servant and that this should be saved. You are doing this policy because you think it is good that these people earn as little as possible, but if civil servants do not work, then the primary labour market in Hungary will stop and you will not be able to talk about GDP growth.
u2022-06-07-181	Thank you very much. Mr Balázs Orbán, political director, is also entitled to a rejoinder.
u2022-06-07-182	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. On the one hand, I would like to reject the part of your speech in which you commented that it would not be important for us to have nurses, nurses, teachers, daycare workers in the civil servants sector, otherwise generally working in the social sector as well as making as much money as possible. Behind my statements is not only opinion, not only the weight of my word, but also the weight of the policy of the past twelve years. The situation that I can't really do is that you're standing here in June and you're bringing these very important issues here once again, and I think you're drawing attention to our important commitments, but there was a campaign period in March not so long ago when you suggested a candidate for prime minister who didn't support the food stop, didn't support the reduction, generally didn't agree with the minimum wage increase, that the minimum wage exists. I don't know how you can account for your own conscience, because we haven't seen such a change in three months. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-07-183	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Mónika Dunai, Member of the Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr Répássy was entitled to reply. I ask the congresswoman, she accepts the person who is responding. [[Mónika Dunai: Yes.]] He says yes, then you have the floor, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai.
u2022-06-07-184	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Over the past years, we have witnessed the complete moral and spiritual decline of Jobbik, the newest building stone on the left, which also proclaims far-right ideas. Their shift to the left was so well done that now they can start this cycle with a smaller group of 16 Members, with only 10 members. The symbolic, offended, cutting-off manifestations of the past years on the part of the party president, who had been assigned by the delegates to lead the party for another two years at the convention a few weeks ago, could greatly contribute to this failure. Peter Jakab's re-election occurred despite the fact that the party's worst scandal has so far started: the suspicion of attempted sexual violence against the partner of the former Vice-President of Jobbik, which according to current information, Peter James, the old-new leader of the party, tried to cover up by all means. As revealed by the fact-finding articles and by the statements of former Vice-President György Szilágyi Jobbik, a 24-year-old woman was lured into a room by right-wing politicians in December 2021 and tried to rape her by taking advantage of the physical dominant position of the alleged unsub. The victim turned to Jobbik's ethics committee and filed a formal complaint. Jobbik's statement doesn't deny the fact of attempted rape, just that they were trying to cover it up. I ask you: where are the politicians, politicians and men fighting for women's rights now? Where are civil society organisations, NGOs, set up to eradicate violence against women? How come a case this serious has no political implications? Therefore, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State: the Hungarian people are worthy [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to represent the serious moral boundaries of the Jobbik? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-07-185	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, State Secretary.
u2022-06-07-186	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You ask that Jobbik is worthy of representing the Hungarian people, who seriously violate the moral boundaries. My answer to the Hungarian people's message to Jobbik is that it is becoming less and less worthy. The reason why Jobbik is less worthy of their representation is because they lost 16 representatives in the last election, so it is clear that the Hungarian people have a value judgment. As far as the specific case is concerned, what we know from the press is that the decision to order an investigation was made on 11 May, and the investigating authority initiated an investigation on suspicion of a violation of personal liberty. It's a violation of personal freedom in the Btk. 194. According to Article 3 of the Act, a sentence of up to three years' imprisonment is a criminal offence. If there's any evidence of sexual assault, it's Btk. 197. According to Article 2 of the Code, the perpetrator may be punished by imprisonment from two to eight years; the penalty shall be five to ten years of imprisonment if the perpetrator commits the offence to the detriment of the person under his authority or influence. I would like to draw attention to the fact that all those involved in, or involved in, covering up such a crime may be subject to the criminal act of acquiescence. So, honourable Member, we are talking about the suspicion of a serious crime, where, moreover, the victim is a woman who has been reportedly raped, so the Parliament should treat the matter with sufficient seriousness. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-07-187	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have the opportunity to respond in return to Congresswoman Mónika Dunai.
u2022-06-07-188	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your answer, and I accept it, but I still find it unacceptable that Jobbik's representatives do not stand up for the victim. I also find it unacceptable that the parties, the representatives of the left-wing cooperation and the lords of the Member do not stand up for the victim of violence. I also find it unacceptable that civil rights NGOs who used to make their voices heard when they wanted to be deeply silent in this matter, which was no longer published yesterday, would have had time to do so. We, representatives of the Fidesz-KDNP, represented the victim, and stood up for each victim, stand up and stand up. That is what I now call on the parties of the left-wing cooperation to express their opinion. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[17.40]]
u2022-06-07-189	Thank you very much. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the Secretary of State.
u2022-06-07-190	Thank you for the floor. Thank you, Congresswoman, for bringing this matter to the public of the Parliament. I would like to call on the public of Parliament to point out that victim support centres operated by the Ministry of Justice are helping victims of crime in precisely such cases. So there is help, for all those who are victims of violence or even victims of property crimes, in legal order, according to the victim-helping law adopted by the Parliament, they will receive help. Therefore, I urge everyone who has a similar relative or has a similar case to direct them to official victim support centres and, of course, to civil society organisations. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-07-191	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Within the agenda point, the last immediate question; István Hollik, representative of the KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: what will happen to Budapest? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr Balázs Fürjes granted the right to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister for his answer in person. [[István Hollik: I accept. Thank you.]] Thank you. Then you have the floor, Congressman István Hollik.
u2022-06-07-192	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Deputy Minister, I think we all agree in this Chamber that Budapest is one of the most beautiful capitals in the world, and certainly the most beautiful for us Hungarians. It is unfortunate that we are hearing about our capital, our capital, not about how well-ordered, fleeted and oiled things are today, but about the most unfulfilled promises, scandals, muggings, and even the most recent fight of the opposition city's leadership directly endangering the functioning of the city, the City Hall is loud. When the mayor was elected, he promised. There's wood on the lower quay, but half of it's dry now. It's got grass, it's grown big, it's called weeds, it's a beekeeper. But none of the serious promises were fulfilled: there is no open town hall, there is no promised health houses, no panel program, no trolleybuses in Buda, no public bid for public office positions could be achieved. So we have to say that, overall, things are not going well in Budapest, and we didn't even talk about the fact that when the Ethnographic Museum was handed over, Mr. Mayor couldn't go there, but he would have posted at least one Facebook post, but he didn't even do that. So while the question under István Tarlós was to have an Olympics in Budapest, the question is now that the Budapest General Assembly will be able to hold its next meeting. Another perspective, I ask Mr. Deputy Minister: what will happen to Budapest? [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-07-193	Thank you, Congressman István Hollik. I give the floor to the Secretary of State Balázs Fürjes.
u2022-06-07-194	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. We have the heart of Budapest, and the senses are in favour of the development of Budapest. Tamás Menczer, State Secretary, said in a reply that Hungary is not on the moon, but, as we know, it can also be seen in memorized moments from the moon. I think we may not be wrong, even if everything we have managed to build in Budapest over the course of 12 years we have managed to do to improve the city can be seen quite far. Orbán said so a few years ago, Prime Minister said that the government knows exactly that there are bigger cities in the world than Budapest, and there are even more famous cities, but from a Hungarian perspective there is no more important city than Budapest. Budapest is the only Hungarian metropolitan city, the only city that can be seen in every world map. Budapest can tell Hungary to the world. "We need a heart for the country," said Széchenyi. Without successful Budapest there is no successful Hungary. There is no time limit, even if I had only talked about it in the two minutes, that in 12 years we could do everything we could to empower the electorate for the nation's capital. Maybe I'll try to focus a little bit on one area. I believe that transport will be the most important issue in the development of Budapest for a very long time. If I had to say three areas, I would say: transport, transport, transport. In 12 years we have been able to finance 1114 new vehicles and brand new vehicles in community transport with government resources and government decisions, and with the direction of European Union funds to Budapest. Not entirely, but to a large extent, we were able to renew the transport vehicle park together with István Tarlós. Unfortunately, however, we do see today that party politics has become more important than building cities. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-07-195	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman Hollik in return.
u2022-06-07-196	Thank you very much. I agree that transport is a central issue in Budapest today, and here we can see that there is an investment that symbolizes the inadequacy of the city's management, and this is the case of the lower quay, where we saw that although the government source was available, the investment was delayed for a year and a half. Thanks to this, the investment has slipped together with the renovation of Blaha Lujza tér, increasing the traffic jams in Budapest even more. And when the investment was completed, the mayor, after the election campaign or after the elections, hints at a left-wing portal that he actually knew, when the investment started, that he wanted to make this car-free, so that it was now renewed as a road. So when this investment started, Gergely Christmas knew that she didn't want a car ride out of it, so this investment resource was actually thrown out of the window by Budapest. This case symbolizes the inadequacy of today's city administration. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-07-197	Thank you, Congressman Hollik. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-06-07-198	Thank you very much. Indeed, when dealing with Budapest, we disagree on a number of things. We are quite sure that the idea of watering up a liter of yellow paint cannot solve Budapest's transport problems, but it can only be difficult to make Budapest's transport. We do not agree that the city's management will turn pedestrians, motorists, cyclists and public transport users against each other. We believe that we need to find a balance in Budapest's transport, and not play out cyclists and motorists against each other. No need to chase cars, no need to drive cars, no need to be deviant. It must be accepted that for many people it is essential to go to work, to organise family life and to work by car. What about Budapest? Uncertain the future is said by Master Yoda. Depending on whether those who asked for and received the confidence of the Budapest people to run the city got to work or still regard the city as a political prey [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] continue to subordinate city leaders to political power struggles. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-06-07-199	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We will move on to our next item on the agenda, and the questions will follow. Lot. Ms Erzsébet Németh, representative of DK, would like to ask the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister a question, 'Can't they at least learn honor from their own municipalities?' It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Sándor Pintér, Minister of Interior, who is competent and competent on the subject, asked Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to answer the question. Lot. Congresswoman Erzsébet Németh has the floor.
u2022-06-07-200	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The other day I met Imre László, our former colleague, who is now the XI. district, mayor of Újbuda. I congratulated him and congratulated him on the fact that, of all 30 Hungarian metropolitan cities and metropolitan districts, his local government proved to be the most transparent on the Transparent, K-Monitor and Transparency International survey. I note that between the 30 former government-led and opposition-led municipalities, but the best position achieved by the governing body was the Székesfehérvár, they were the tenth on this list, while the last three were the Fidesz municipalities of the V. district of Győr, Debrecen and Budapest. [[17.50]] Although the survey does not cover this comparison, looking at the aspects of the evaluation and the scores received, I have a very strong belief that even the government of the city of Belváros-Lipót is far ahead of the government of Hungary in terms of transparency. If that is true, then it is not at all fate that Hungary will be on the top-of-the-line list of corruption in the European Union, and for this reason, among other things, it will have to spare the billions of euros due to Hungary from the cohesion fund and the recovery fund. I would therefore ask Mr Secretary of State that it would not be reasonable to restore all the powers of the local authorities, to make up for their funding, since they appear to operate more transparently and fairly and manage public money than the Hungarian Government does. Couldn't the government learn transparency and clean-handedness if not from anyone else, at least from the fidesz authorities that didn't really perform well in the survey? And wouldn't it be practical to try to get the Union to lead in this way to open the money taps as a veto threat and blackmail? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-07-201	Thank you very much, Gy. Congresswoman Erzsébet Németh. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2022-06-07-202	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Obviously, it wasn't easy for you to be deputy mayor at City Hall in Budapest, because we know from Gordon Bajnai that sharks are swimming around City Hall and working on a 10% commission system. You've brought an interesting order to Parliament here. Let us not forget that we are talking about a joint survey of Transparency International and K-Monitor, where we are being measured on such objective grounds that the capital has just slipped off the podium, but let's say the company with the background of the bus doggy or offshore was able to win, which was not even registered when the tender started, or the Chain Bridge, when they accepted a more expensive offer of HUF 5 billion. So they're in fourth place. But in the third place, the podium was slid up by Zuglo. The Zugló, where Gergely Christmas was afraid of who would be buried by allied fellow politicians, where Zsolt Fuzik confessed that Zsolt Molnár, Csaba Horváth and Csaba Tóth paid money to Ferenc Baja. We are talking about a local government led by Gergely Christmas, where, apparently, some of these corruption amounts even made some money for his successor, his mayor's Cherjepalms. This is where we can see the places. These events didn't happen in Zuglo. Mayor Csaba Horváth took over the HUF 10-12 million that helped Zugló to the third place, according to Zsolt Fuzik's statement. Or Ferenc Baja, who is friendly with the mayor, has the right to negotiate according to the testimony, has the confidence and support of Deputy Mayor Kiss Ambrus, he may know you from the age of Deputy Mayor, he took over HUF 30 million in the small park at the Castle Garden Bazaar. He told Zsolt Molnár that when he handed him the 40 million forints in Olympic Park, he gave it to him in a black leather Hugo Boss bag, but he didn't get the bag back. This led to the third place in the top of the transparency list. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. István Apáti: What is this man doing on the National Security Committee?]]
u2022-06-07-203	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question. It's an address. Mr László Lukács has the floor.
u2022-06-07-204	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, At Sándor Pintér's ministerial hearing, he has not yet been able to answer which ministry the Honvéd Hospital will be under, given the fact that the Minister of Health will also be the Minister of the Interior. You could say BM is the new EMMI. In the previous term, the Minister of Defence managed to retain control rights over the Honvéd Hospital, but the new government seems to have a different role or a different vision of the future of the high-quality hospital. In fact, a decree is placing the institution under the control of BM as of 1 January 2023, thus losing the last institution of the once traditionally strong Hungarian military health care, after being left behind in years by the former medical institutions of several large rural settlements belonging to the Hungarian defence. How the Ministry imagines the future of the Honvéd Hospital would be good to hear, especially because the hospital has a large number of rights to needs and provides an unprecedented supply of residents in the country. In view of all this, I ask the Secretary of State that the Honvéd Hospital will be able to provide in future the organisation of military medical missions, the provision of medical care for military units serving abroad, domestic training and activities related to NATO tasks, changing the number of people entitled to claim in the hospital, i.e. who can use the services of the hospital. After all, what is the reason why the Ministry of Interior will eventually be under the control of the Honvéd Hospital? I look forward to your substantive answer.
u2022-06-07-205	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2022-06-07-206	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In addition to your worried words, we can see that a hospital closing contest was launched on the left. Imre László, who worked transparently, mentioned earlier, started to give DK's favorite house lawyer not only HUF 30 million, but also said that it was necessary to save money and that 45 percent of hospitals should be closed. But then came the new left-wing health politician, Zoltán Komáromi, our fellow Member, who is no longer satisfied with that, he said that more could be closed than 45 percent of hospitals. If you are concerned about the operation of hospitals, please contact your fellow Members first, who are really in competition, who wants fewer hospitals in Hungary. Their words weigh on the fact that when they steered, many hospitals were actually closed down. So this is the first question that I think should be clarified on the left between two concerns: which hospital would be left open at all, honourable Member, and which would be closed? As far as the Honvéd Hospital is concerned, you have read in the news that the institution will be able to fully fulfil its obligations arising from NATO tasks. Obviously, there is a longer, several months of time here, as you know, to carry out the whole separation, separation and separation, because this is really a hospital, a complex institution with hundreds of employees, so it really takes time to see exactly which one performs the special military tasks and which one is involved in general care. But it was already apparent in everyday cases and during the coronal virus epidemic that the Honvéd Hospital was united in the fight against the epidemic. Basically, I think we can agree, at least I think, that we can agree, but we can talk about a unified Hungarian health care system, that we need a unified management, uniform health care, and when we are talking about the tasks of the Honvéd Hospital, which are not special military knowledge, but general knowledge, then we have to cooperate with the general care system, and when there are specific tasks arising from defence, we have to create a special unit for them. But like I said, there's still plenty of time for negotiations here. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-07-207	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Éva Sebők, Congresswoman of Momentum, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior:. What about the hospitals in Baranya County? It's an address. Congresswoman Éva Sebők has the floor.
u2022-06-07-208	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Here they sit behind me Szabolcs Földkuti, representative of the local government of hops, as well as Tamás Péderi, representative of the local government of Baranya county. They came to me with a problem seriously affecting Baranya County. In addition to the closure of the obstetrics in Mohács, the emergency medical outpatient care in hops has also ceased, and since I gave the question, similar reports have been received from Szolnok obstetrics. I ask the responsible minister to make a clear statement as to what happened, why the supply had to be discontinued, and the hops have to expect that their hospital will be further dismantled or closed. What are you doing to ensure that the issue of Mohács and Szolnok should be re-obstetricated? I expect a qualitative response, and I thank you in advance of cooperation. The Momentum representative asked me a question. Thank you.
u2022-06-07-209	Thank you, Congresswoman Éva Scarők. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2022-06-07-210	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The development of institutions has been very important to us in recent years, both in Komlón and in Mohács, and there have been serious subsidies. [[18.00]] For Komlóra infrastructure development, there has been an even greater amount of HUF 115 million for hygiene development, automated drug dispensers, outpatient development, 234 million for the practical implementation of the infection control activity, precisely in order to increase patient safety. In Mohács nearly 100 million forints arrived for complex infrastructure development, from the water supply system to the antiseptic system to the air sterilizer. Here the outpatient care provider received 63 new tools and many more forints in 7 fields, and here, too, for the sake of patient safety, 52 million forints for risk prevention, for the treatment of infections, for the reduction of hygiene risks. In addition, an additional HUF 27 million was added to medical infrastructure and HUF 64 million to training programmes, also to Mohács, precisely so that these institutions could provide the highest possible level of care. At the same time, I encourage the representatives of the local government sitting behind you to say that when the left talks about 45 percent of hospitals being liquidated from two hospitals, the left is thinking that mathematically one of them wouldn't have a hospital today if the left had come to power. There is a hospital in both settlements because left-wing politicians are not measuring where they can stay and where they can't stay in Hungary, and they are reducing the number of hospitals by half or a third. Hospitals have issued a statement that the care of patients is ongoing, that all patients will be cared for in the region, and, as I pointed out, the development of hospitals has also been ongoing. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This is also our goal, so that as many hospitals as possible can operate at the highest possible level in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-07-211	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Sándor Szabó, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question: What do you intend to do with patients who are not affected by the epidemic? It's an address. Mr Sándor Szabó has the floor.
u2022-06-07-212	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I think we all agree that the coronal virus epidemic has put a considerable burden on the health care system, but we also have to agree that this burden was not actually created at the time of the outbreak or in its management. By reducing the services provided by the healthcare system and temporarily suspending it, a number of diseases that now need to be detected without delay by reducing the intensity of the epidemic and those affected must be cured. By the quarter of this year, fewer patients were treated by health institutions than before the epidemic, and these are the health insurance data. Most of the patients don't even get into the supply system, conservative therapy stays, so waiting lists continue to grow. Furthermore, other health factors caused by the coronal virus, such as long-term side effects caused by the virus, complications, mental illness, anxiety and the rest, especially in children, should not be forgotten. In order to ensure patient care, it is also necessary to switch to the new funding system, which, as it was before, is based on performance and takes into account the quality of care. All of these cases require targeted resources, targeted services, in order to ensure that the already serious problem is not further exacerbated. For all these reasons, what do you intend to do with patients who have not been treated for an epidemic? How do you intend to take care of them? How do you intend to reduce waiting lists? What do you intend to do to provide targeted assistance to those suffering from the long-term effects of the coronal virus and to those suffering from mental illness during the epidemic? When will the financing system that takes account of the quality of supply in addition to performance be re-established? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A rare applause from the benches of Momentum.]]
u2022-06-07-213	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2022-06-07-214	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In every country in the world, there was a new situation with the corona virus epidemic in every hospital. They tried to treat as many patients with coronal viruses everywhere as possible, along with those with symptoms of other diseases, so as not to expose them to the risk of the coronal virus. This resulted in an increase in waiting lists in all lands. At the same time, it was also important in Hungary that all patients were treated who were at risk of life or serious health loss due to lack of intervention. So all of these interventions were carried out; they did not take place, which the doctors considered to be delayed, or where the patients themselves did not appear because they were afraid of the epidemic, because they were afraid of getting the disease in the hospital. So all life-saving and indeterminate care has been done. At the same time, the left is not spotless at this time. What you have done, let us say, with Lajos Korózs's Kamuvideo and other cases, with your speeches to Parliament, with your speeches to the Commission, has not helped to protect against the epidemic, but has prevented, spread false news, made camuvideos, and has not voted in Parliament for the proposals that have helped doctors and nurses. In Hungary, even public health tests, so preventive screening tests, investigations of people without symptoms, have stopped for a short time compared to other countries, but if someone had a non-negative result, then the clarification studies could, of course, have been carried out. In order to reduce waiting lists, the government has allocated an extra HUF 13 billion, precisely because, although we managed to keep waiting lists from around 70,000 to 27 thousand waiting hours, but obviously during the epidemic, as in other countries, this has increased, but in order to do so, there is a surplus of HUF 13 billion, which is why it was important to restart the country as soon as possible, that we tried to obtain vaccines from all directions, so that we could return to the functioning of hospitals, to normal operation and to replace these benefits for as many as possible during the epidemic. And like you said, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] mental assistance is also needed here for many reasons. The government is also paying attention to them. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-06-07-215	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Dóra Dúró, representative of Mi Hazank, would you like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question: It's an address. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró has the floor.
u2022-06-07-216	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Drug dealers, machete attack escape party, preschool graduation in shooting, it's only recently happened in Kerepes, where, if you cross the Szilaj Creek, It's going to the Factory Street, to another world. Even after the shooting two weeks ago, everyone is on the loose, and the prosecution and the police are pointing fingers at each other, so the criminals are back in the settlement. Our Homeland Movement is initiating a legislative amendment so that this will not happen in the future. There's no way around the government's responsibility. As mayor László Gyuricza has repeatedly indicated to the authorities, Kerepes would be entitled to two district agents, but due to a shortage of staff in the police department, the Ministry of Interior cannot even ensure that, so there is no permanent police presence in a settlement where such cases occur. Because of this, of course, the only policeman has little deterrent power, he can only do anything when he's already in trouble. All this is also a national phenomenon, despite the government's attempts to deny it. Last week, I personally visited the settlement and its ghetto, talked to the injured family members, although the head of the family is also serving imprisonment in Tököl. I also tried to reach out to the perpetrators, but all they could afford was a nasty scream. He's got his eyes in the mountains all over the street, drug trafficking is an open secret, but as a state, you're gonna turn a blind eye to these cases. I ask Mr Secretary of State for all of this: he is willing to ensure a calming police presence in Kerepes. Are you also in favour of amending legislation so that such criminals do not damage the air of settlements worthy of a better fate? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause from the benches of our country.]]
u2022-06-07-217	Thank you, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2022-06-07-218	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, We are not living under the rule of the left when there are different reasons why we do not have to act against someone who has a criminal lifestyle, but we are taking action against everyone, and we have adopted Europe's strictest criminal code, which, by the way, was adopted by the then representatives of our country, who were still in another party, but I do not want to offend them now to say which one, but then they have not supported it by their vote, by pressing the yes button, the strictest criminal code that will help the police to act. We accepted it, which is why we managed to reduce the number of crimes from 428,000 to 142 thousand! [[Intercoms from the benches of our country.]] [[18.10]] We have also managed to improve the effectiveness of the investigation from 46 percent to 74 percent, also because the police get more respect, and also because we have given them more effective means to ensure that victims of crime are not sometimes afraid of the consequences, but of the perpetrators. That's why we built new prisons. [[Dr. István Apáti: They are very scared right now!]] to make room for those who are being sent to prison for more severe punishments. And in addition to the police patrols, district agents will also help maintain the Kerepes public order, honourable Member. [[Dr. István Apáti intervenes.]] , precisely because, in cooperation with many others on the ground, we maintain public order both there and everywhere in Hungary, because it is indeed a minimum. We did not accept the position that many have often pointed out to us as to why we are adopting a law of three blows. [[Dr. István Apáti: Make one!]] more rigorously to repeaters who commit violent crimes, more often than not, but with these strict criminal policy instruments, by restoring the authority of the police, using them not for political purposes than before 2010, but by dealing with law enforcement and combating migration. [[Dr. István Apáti: Police have no authority!]] That's why we knew public safety. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to a much greater extent than our predecessors before 2010. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-07-219	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, András Imre Jámbor, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question: It's an address. Congressman András Imre Jámbor has the floor.
u2022-06-07-220	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I have already asked Mr Miklós Kásler, former Minister, that Budapest IX. In its district, the schools of the Inner Pest School District are closed because they need to be renovated, and because of this children do not get proper swimming education. You, Minister of State Rétvári, who replied in his place, gave a long discussion on the Minister of Sports Gyurcsány, when the children who were talking about the problem were not even born when Ferenc Gyurcsány was Minister of Sport. Dear Secretary of State, I know that you need political appearances, strong answers, contempt for opposition, but I think that politics and the handling of our common affairs are ahead of you, and that the situation of Franciscan schoolchildren, the Fradi water polo supply, is ahead of you. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Children and parents in Ferencváros deserve more than that. I'm asking you to give me a fair answer, and the minimum amount of money we're talking about, give it to me for this purpose. At the school of the Ferenc Molnár Primary School, under 19 Mester Street, there has been no swimming education for three years, because the swimming pool is closed. In today's prices, the cost of the renovation can now amount to approximately HUF 100 million. It's "Lobogó u." Swimming school under number 1 has not worked since February 2022. Here, the amount of renovation is approx. That would be 10-20 million forints. This amount is less than the cost of Viktor Orbán's one-year wage increase announced on Friday. On 10 May, the website of the Lobogó Street Swimming Teachers published that the renovation is expected to take place in the summer if KLIK provides additional support to the school district on the basis of the renovation offers. According to the written reply given by the Secretary of State of Rétvári on 23 May:, of course, maintenance of existing schools, the provision of the resources necessary to restart closed schools is also an important task, which we are constantly investigating. Dear Secretary of State, I'm asking you not to keep looking at the possibilities for four years, so my question would be: did the KLIK award the supplementary allowance to the Lobogo Street school, and the renovation will really start in the summer? In connection with the renovation of the Master Street school, how did it develop, what can children and parents expect? I look forward to your response to the children and parents of Ferencváros.
u2022-06-07-221	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2022-06-07-222	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Members, Dear House, I think his speech is important in his political history, because the liberal journalist meets reality. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Communist!]] All you can say to a Marxist for years is that I don't want to open a debate in this, and then you decide. So all they've been doing in your newspaper for years, here in Parliament, is attacking sports investments, how much the government spends on sports. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] You shouldn't spend that much money on sports, you open the money taps for sports, but you can't do anything else, you have to shut down the billions that flow to sports. That's what you keep saying, criticizing the Tao system, why we need so much for sport, the Prime Minister's hobby, and the rest, they come with the usual texts. Then you get into Parliament, open a reception hour, parents and kids come in, say we want to go to the swimming pool, why there's no sports support to build the swimming pool. And then you come into Parliament and you tell me that we need more sports support, just the opposite of what you've been saying for 12 years. I am very glad that you have come to reality in this, and I am very pleased that you are now in favour of what the government has done for 12 years, and I hope you will then also write such articles as, how good it would be if the government turned more into sport, because you can see that it is good for people, that they love it. They don't like it when your mayor says he's gonna cut off the rest of the support from Fradi because the families are happy that their children can go to sports. There's a terrible long way to tell why it's good for the family, for the child and for the whole nation. That's why we started it. [[András Imre Jámbor intervenes.]] our public education infrastructure development programme. We have built a new swimming pool on 28 sites, which is exactly why, Congressman, we have 39 places for gymnasiums, 28 places for new classrooms, and we are also building a new school building in five places, precisely so that the sports facilities can be extended for students, and we will also find a solution to the renovations that are needed here. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I'm just asking you to stop attacking the government's commitment to sport and sports development from now on. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-06-07-223	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance:. How long will the state remain the worst employer in Hungary? It's an address. At the request of the Minister of Technology and Industry, László Palkovics, who is competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, will answer the question at the request of State Secretary Zsófia Koncz.
u2022-06-07-224	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, In recent months, inflation has reached a record high level. In April, it was more than 10 percent compared to the previous year, and all forecasts show that inflation will continue to rise. The average price of food has officially increased by 16 percent in one year, but many very important products within food have been able to rise by double. Half-brown bread, white bread, buns increased by 32-33 percent, margarine by 38 percent, trappy cheese by 31 percent in one year. The losers of inflation are those living on wages and salaries, especially those employed by the public, who, if they have received any increase in wages, have also been taken away by inflation this year. After many decades of underpaid, a drastic wage increase would be needed, which apparently will not be received. On the other hand, due to the record high, 27 percent VAT and other revenue-related tax types, the budget is the winner of inflation, with hundreds of additional revenues, possibly even thousands of billions, from these taxes. Today, the state is the worst employer in Hungary. In our view, the first step in the right direction compared to this sad situation could be to finally say that the government will always protect its own employees from the effects of inflation and will apply inflation-following wage increases throughout the public sector. Today's budget shows no signs of this. I therefore ask, Madam Secretary of State, that the government is willing to protect its own employees from inflation, to plan at least to increase wages by the scale of the increase, or to continue to play the role of the exploitation company. Thank you for your reply. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2022-06-07-225	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Zsófia Koncz.
u2022-06-07-226	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In addition to job creation, economic development, tax reduction and support for families, the government pays particular attention to wages, depending on the performance of the economy. Since 2010, gross earnings have increased by about 117 percent, net earnings by more than 120 percent and family tax incentives by more than 128 percent. In addition to tax reductions, reductions or child discounts, the government has contributed to the increase in average earnings by means of career plans and other sectoral wage measures. It is important for the government to ensure the quality of public services, so it pays particular attention to the ability of public institutions to acquire and retain labour. [[18.20]] For this reason, significant steps have been taken in recent years to estimate public service workers: in addition to lifelong careers, significant salary increases have been made, and comprehensive wage-raising programmes have been taking place in the public sector since 2010. In his previous reply, political director Balázs Orbán explained these increases in detail, so allow me to mention just a few examples. From 1 January 2022, we raised the wages of daycare workers, social workers and cultural workers by 20 percent, and the doctors received a higher increase than ever before, while nurses were able to bring 21 percent more money home. There have therefore been serious wage increases in all spheres since 2010. I would also like to draw attention once again to the extremely significant tax reductions, tax incentives, and the reduction of the rent, which will leave much more money in the pockets of Hungarian people and families. Continuing the conscious construction of the last 12 years, the government continues to strive to improve the financial situation and quality of life of Hungarian families even further. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-07-227	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, János Pócs, representative of Fidesz, would you like to ask the Minister of Interior a question:. Planezie the Government in the coming years to continue the development of preschool and school infrastructure? It's an address. Mr János Pócs has the floor.
u2022-06-07-228	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In the days we celebrated the teachers; honor and gratitude for their sacrifice, God bless them. Supporting families, improving education and improving the environment are at the heart of the values of Hungarian economic policy and governance, as schools play a central role in educating and educating young people. On the other hand, the left is seeking to declare that, if they are brought to government, they will return the maintenance of the schools to the municipalities. I would like to remind you that under the governance of the left, the municipalities have accumulated nearly HUF 2000 billion in debt. Our government's first task was to take over public tasks and, together with it, public funding, while at the same time dealing with the government's debt. The primary objective of the school district system is to ensure that all children receive the same level of education, and not only those children living in cities and villages in which they have significant tax revenues. Thanks to the government's support, we spent HUF 2.7 billion on the renovation and modernisation of the Yászság schools in my constituency. For example, the Jászapát school was built from HUF 1.12 billion, and we provided an additional HUF 450 million for renovations, for energy development, for the construction of sports fields, including Jászárok, Jászkisére, Jászboldogháza and Jásszentandrás, with the support of the government. Without the government's support, none of the Jász settlements could have financed these costs. If the left had come to power, it would have pushed the schools into debt and cliffs, along with the maintenance authorities. That is why I ask the Secretary of State that the Government is planning to develop preschool and school infrastructure. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-07-229	Thank you very much, Congressman Puddle. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2022-06-07-230	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Thank you, too, for remembering that it was a teacher's day, as thanks to all teachers, teachers, kindergarten teachers, everyone who works in schools and kindergartens, and does so every day that children leave the school bench with the best possible skills and knowledge. But obviously, it is also important that the school bench is of the highest quality, as well as the school building and digital devices. In view of the number of places, the value of the current funding cycle, educational developments took place, it can be said that at 900 locations there were worth HUF 350 billion, precisely so that there would be quality conditions for education everywhere, whether in a physical sense or in teaching material and other conditions. 220 projects have been launched in the national public education infrastructure development programme launched from budgetary sources, 101 of which are already completed. 57 study rooms, 87 gymnasiums, 44 classrooms, 31 new school and 1 new kindergarten development. The second half of these are still to come, but these are definitely projects that will be carried out later. The programme "Modern Cities" has 6 public education developments, the total cost of which was HUF 52 billion, and 168 small settlements of the Hungarian village started to develop and renovate small village schools. Out of 177 billion forints we were able to advance from EFOP and KEHOP in 698 schools and college buildings, 536 of which have already been implemented. This means that, overall, we were able to make progress in the surroundings of 450,000 students, somewhat more modern than it was a few years ago. An important part of the kindergarten development was the creation of 16,000 new kindergarten seats, and we also spent high amounts on nursery and kindergarten renovations, HUF 319 billion, and HUF 2.8 billion in additional support for kindergarten operations. The 20% wage increase is also well-known in this area. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-07-231	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr.Zsolt Gréczy, representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance:. How do you want to help people in the crisis of livelihoods caused by inflation and the austerity measures of the Orbán government? It's an address. Mr Zsolt Gréczy has the floor.
u2022-06-07-232	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, At present, inflation is one of the biggest problems of the Hungarian people. It doesn't comfort anyone that the price is a problem elsewhere, and it doesn't matter what it was or what it was during the Darányi government. Last week, the salesman of an electrical store informed me that 53 products had to be raised in one day. One bread oven, for example, cost 22,000 forints one day and 35,000 forints the next day. A single euro is worth around 400 HUF, so I think you are using inflation to recover the subsidies granted in the spring from people by raising their prices. Even the government and the non-independent central bank predict a further increase in inflation for the coming months, and we have already crossed the magical 10 percent threshold. The prices of bread, dairy products, meats, vegetables and fruits are rising. Minister, enough of the people's skinning and austerity, so the Democratic Coalition makes a four-point proposal on how to help Hungarian people. DK proposes that families in distress be given 100 thousand forints of support. This support should apply to all families with children, people with disabilities, civil servants with fewer than average earners and people with low pensions. In addition, there should be a zero-percent VAT on basic foods. For three months, give a single ticket for all public transport equipment for HUF 1000; this is also the proposal of the Democratic Coalition. I ask the Secretary of State to consider the proposals of the Democratic Coalition, which really help in this situation. So I ask the Secretary of State that you can expect to follow DK's proposals and finally help the victims of inflation and the Orbán austerity package. Thank you for your answer.
u2022-06-07-233	Thank you, Congressman Zsolt Gréczy. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2022-06-07-234	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You said your suggestions so fast, I couldn't even write half of them. But all right, let's count politically first. You're proposing a VAT reduction. It's a good thing. If the tax on a product is reduced, customers should be able to obtain it at a cheaper price. But when the government does this and brings its proposal to reduce the VAT on basic foods, why don't you support it? So when the government has fallen, no, but now that the problem is a little bigger because of inflation, they remember this proposal again. Obviously, you're doing this for political reasons, but you can do it, and there's no problem with that. A hundred thousand forints of support for families. The government gave much more than that in February with the tax refund! families who work, who pay taxes, families who raise children. [[18.30]] In addition, he also gave the pensioners 13 months' pension, and I'm not saying that this was taken by your party, your predecessor's party. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] But you, your boss and Ferenc Gyurcsány were one of the supporters of this. Honourable Congressman, I understand that you want to use big words for a journalist, that there is a livelihood crisis, but you have to admit that this government is doing its best in this difficult situation. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] to dampen the effects of inflation in Hungarian families. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-07-235	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, This item is also closed. A general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Protocol to the Agreement establishing an association between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Central America, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union is now taking place. The government referral is T/119. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation is held by the Parliament as an EU item on the agenda. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Menczer, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda within a 30-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-06-07-236	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The purpose of this bill is to facilitate the publication of the Protocol to the Agreement establishing an association between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Central America, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The agreement was signed on 29 June 2012, and the Parliament is the CLIV of 2013. published by law. After ratification of all States Parties, the date of entry into force shall be determined by the Minister responsible for foreign policy, as soon as it becomes known, by means of a communication published immediately in the Hungarian Gazette. The political and cooperation parts of the agreement ratified by our country on 23 October 2013 have not yet entered into force, but the trade part is provisionally applicable in relation to the European Union and the Republic of Nicaragua, the Republic of Honduras and the Republic of Panama from 1 August 2013, in relation to the Republic of Costa Rica and the Republic of Salvador from 1 October 2013 and to the Republic of Guatemala from 1 December 2013. On 1 July 2013, the Republic of Croatia became a Member State of the European Union. Pursuant to the Act of Accession of the Republic of Croatia, the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the Agreement should be agreed by means of the Protocol annexed thereto. The Protocol was signed on 26 November 2020. Pursuant to the Protocol, the Republic of Croatia shall become a Contracting Party to the Agreement and the Republic of Croatia shall be added to the list of Parties to the Agreement. The Agreement provides that the Parties may agree on any other amendment to the Agreement and provides for how to deal with the effects of such accession on the Agreement in the event of the accession of new Member States to the European Union. Further sections or Annexes to the Protocol shall contain technical amendments resulting from the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the Agreement. Act L of 2005 on the procedure for international contracts 9. In accordance with Article 4 of the Agreement, the Protocol which forms an integral part of the Agreement must be published by law. Hungary has ratified the original agreement among the first to strengthen relations between the European Union and the Central American countries, and, following the temporary application of the trade part, the foreign trade flows of Hungary have increased significantly with the region. In view of this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support and adopt the bill. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-07-237	Thank you, Secretary of State, Tamás Menczer. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Barna Pál Sigismund, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2022-06-07-238	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The draft law on the publication of the agreement establishing an association between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Central American countries, of the other part, was discussed and adopted by the Parliament in autumn 2013. Even the original bill was a so-called mixed type agreement, which required ratification of all the Member States of the European Union for its adoption. The entry into force of the agreement resulted in the opening up of markets in both regions. Another objective was to strengthen economic integration in Central America and to increase bilateral trade flows. The agreement was based on three pillars, the first pillar is political dialogue, the second is cooperation, the third is trade. It can be seen that the original goal was not only a simple trade agreement, but also a mutual set of conditions and links between the individual pillars. The purpose of this bill is to become a Contracting Party to the Agreement signed in June 2012 with Croatia's accession to the EU on 1 July 2013. The Fidesz parliamentary group supports the adoption of this protocol. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-07-239	Thank you very much, Congressman Zsigmond Barna Pál. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2022-06-07-240	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The current agreement before us, the agreement establishing an association between the European Union and Central America, was adopted on 29 June 2012. The Agreement was concluded between the Member States of the European Union on the one hand and six Central American Republics on the other, namely Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua and Panama. I think that these international treaties are all very important, because they can increase trade. If we look at the relevant data of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office, we see that by 2013, compared to the ratification of the agreement in 2021, we have recorded a 282 percent increase in trade between these six countries and Hungary; if we treat these six countries as one, we will see that our major trading partners in the Latin American region and Hungarian companies could gain market access through the agreement. Of course, as the Secretary of State said here because of the accession to Croatia, it is necessary to clarify and amend the agreement in law, but I would also like to point out in general that these agreements are very important because Hungarian exports, the acquisition of the market for Hungarian companies, the delivery of Hungarian products to different countries, even to countries that are geographically distant from us, are all goals for which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade has been working for many years and which we need to strengthen in the future. Therefore, although it is a small bill, I regret that my fellow opposition Members do not consider these international treaties important and do not take part in this debate. In any case, the KDNP fraction will support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-06-07-241	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Speaking to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP.
u2022-06-07-242	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, The only reason I am speaking to this bill is because Congressman Nacsa resented that it seemed to him that we did not consider these issues important. We consider it important to propose legislation which ultimately offers Hungarian producers market and market expansion opportunities, but this is practically a free trade agreement which, on the one hand, clearly opens up the possibility of exporting, has a wider potential for other regions, but on the other hand, promotes or facilitates the supply of products to the European market, including the Hungarian market. We have always said that we believe in real patriot economic policy, unlike passwords and phrases, and we believe that we must work with every means to ensure that Hungarian producers' products are placed on the table of Hungarian consumers in the highest proportion. We need to protect our markets, especially in such a global environment, when we live in times of crisis. So the answer to local needs for local production is considered useful through regional cooperation. By the way, we consider it a very dangerous trend that Fidesz-KDNP calls itself a national, but with the least possible restrictions it can accept any free trade agreement, free trade agreements that otherwise reduce Hungary's sovereignty, reduce, say, the protection of workers' rights or the protection of our natural resources. [[18.40]] This is not necessarily of this nature, so I am not suggesting, but overall, we can say that we have problems in principle with this agreement. We need to protect Hungarian producers, the Hungarian market, and we need a real patriot approach. We see that this agreement does not necessarily point in this direction, so we will not be able to support it. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-07-243	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs for two minutes.
u2022-06-07-244	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, We agree that local products should be preferred and Hungarian products should be protected. By the way, with this agreement, we also acquired a Hungarian market for Hungarian products in a particular group of countries. In this way, if we look beyond the agreement, then, on the one hand, we have a positive trade balance, so we are delivering more products, we are exporting more products than they come from, and what comes from there, my fellow Member, you know that, for example, you cannot grow bananas in Szolnok in the climate conditions there, or other types of products coming from these six countries. I believe that trade agreements are always concluded, and that is why the KKM is responsible for meeting the Hungarian national interest, for obtaining a market for Hungarian companies, and for the Hungarian, otherwise higher value added products, to obtain a market where these products are able to compete in the global economy. It is precisely in this group of countries and in these six countries that we are talking about products that are made with higher added value. So I think that the increase in exports has also contributed greatly to the economic success of the past period, so we must continue this trend, while, of course, I agree that domestic producers, domestic products, should be preferred, and we ourselves can set a good example in our own purchases. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-07-245	Thank you, Congressman. I'll ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. I'll give the floor to the author if you'd like to take the opportunity. [[Tamás Menczer indicates that he does not wish to speak.]] It says no. Dear Parliament, You have until 4 p.m. on Friday to submit the amendments. The general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Austria on the announcement of an agreement between the Hungarian People's Republic and the Republic of Austria on the termination of an agreement on the promotion and protection of investments until closure. The government referral T/141. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Menczer, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-06-07-246	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The purpose of the bill before you is to fulfil Hungary's obligations arising from its membership of the European Union and to implement the judgment given by the Court of Justice of the European Union binding on the Member States. First, I would like to briefly describe the content of the judgment on which the bill is based and its legal consequences for Hungary. The Court of Justice of the European Union delivered its judgment in the Slovak Republic v Achmea case on 6 March 2018. According to the court, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is contrary to the arbitration clause contained in international investment protection agreements concluded between Member States. According to the arbitration clause, if an investor in a Member State of the European Union invests in another Member State and there is a dispute over the investment, arbitration proceedings may be initiated against the Member State of the Union concerned. According to the court, the arbitration clauses set out in the bilateral investment agreements within the EU, described above, are contrary to EU law, as they undermine the system of redress provided by the EU Treaties and jeopardise the autonomy, effectiveness, priority, direct scope and the principle of mutual trust between Member States. In order to implement the Achmea judgment and to establish a coordinated action at EU level, Member States have undertaken to terminate all their bilateral investment protection agreements in a bilateral or, where appropriate, more effective bilateral manner. In order to eliminate bilateral investment agreements between Member States in an orderly manner, a multi-faceted international agreement between EU Member States has been negotiated. Hungary was also actively involved in the negotiations, fulfilling its obligation under EU law. As a result of the negotiations, a multifaceted agreement was reached on the termination of bilateral investment agreements between the Member States of the European Union, which were signed on 5 May 2020 in Brussels. This agreement was signed by a total of 23 Member States, including Hungary, and the 2020 LXI in Hungary. It's out of the question. It's out of the question. It is important to note that Austria, Sweden, Finland, Ireland and the United Kingdom have not signed this multifaceted agreement for different policy purposes. Our country has previously concluded bilateral investment protection agreements with Austria, Sweden, Finland and the United Kingdom, which need to be closed bilaterally. In its oral list dated 31 August 2021, the Embassy of the Republic of Austria proposed to terminate the agreement between the People's Republic of Hungary and the Republic of Austria on the promotion and protection of investments by mutual agreement. Under the provisions of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Contracts, it is possible to terminate the investment protection agreement in this way on the basis of mutual agreement between the parties. Accordingly, the oral list of Austria and the reply list of Hungary together constitute an agreement on the termination of the investment protection agreement between the two States. On the basis of the Hungarian legislation, the mandate of the Parliament is necessary for the adoption by the Hungarian party of the termination of the international legal obligation in question. The termination should be ordered by law and the replacement of the register containing the termination by mutual agreement should also be published in the same law and the repeal of the earlier publication legislation should also be provided for. The agreement which is the subject of this bill results in the termination of the investment protection agreement between Hungary and Austria. One of the main functions of the agreement is to fix the termination of the expiry provision of the terminated agreement without any further legal effects, thereby ensuring that the bilateral investment protection agreement is not capable of producing additional legal effects after termination. By concluding this agreement, Hungary is fulfilling its obligation under EU law, and I therefore ask this House to accept the bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-06-07-247	Thank you, Secretary of State, Tamás Menczer. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2022-06-07-248	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, A good relationship with neighbouring countries is of particular importance to our country, and on 26 May 1988 the Hungarian People's Republic and the Republic of Austria signed a bilateral agreement on the promotion and protection of investments in Budapest, which was announced by the 12th Government Decree of 1990. This approach has not changed in the last thirty years, and has been strengthened, as our country, as a member of the European Union, is seeking a close and fruitful relationship with all Member States, in line with the legitimate need for the smooth exercise of freedoms. This bill is necessary because the Court of Justice of the European Union, as has been said, announced its decision on 6 March 2018 in the case of the Slovak Republic v Achmea BV. According to the decision of the court, Articles 344 and 267 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union contradict the arbitration clause contained in international investment protection agreements between Member States, so that an investor in one Member State may, in the event of a dispute concerning his investment in another Member State, bring an arbitration before the latter Member State. This ensures the autonomy, effectiveness, priority and direct scope of EU law and mutual trust between Member States. In agreement, therefore, the Member States of the European Union have undertaken to terminate all bilateral investment protection agreements between Member States. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, As a member of the European Union, Hungary must comply with this harmonisation effort, so please support this bill. The Fidesz Group supports it. Thank you very much. [[18.50]]
u2022-06-07-249	Thank you very much, Congressman Zsigmond Barna Pál. I now give the floor to Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2022-06-07-250	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the context of the current bill, it is worth examining two important things about the European Union: the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of Luxembourg. The original agreement was signed in 1988, as the Secretary of State and my fellow Member said. When examining the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 344 shall apply. Article 267 and Article 267 In its judgment, the Court held that, in the international investment protection agreements, if the Member States conclude an arbitration clause, Articles 344 and 267. It will be contrary to the provisions of this Article. It is clear from this judgment and from the execution of the judgment that not only the continuous dialogue with the court, but also the execution of the judgments, is of particular importance to the Hungarian Government. It is important to repeal this agreement concluded in 1988 because the Republic of Austria has not terminated these bilateral investment protection agreements and a infringement procedure has been initiated. It is therefore important to repeal this because, as a result, bilateral investment protection agreements will not produce legal effects, and in this context, it is important to give priority to EU law, as Mr State Secretary stressed, mutual trust between Member States, in accordance with the relevant paragraphs of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Therefore, of course, KDNP supports the bill. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-07-251	Thank you, Dawn Juhász, Congresswoman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP.
u2022-06-07-252	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I'll speak very briefly. I can say that we will gladly vote in favour of this motion. At the time, we expressed our concern about the legal institution for the application of arbitration in the debates of various free trade agreements. It is now virtually stated here that this is contrary to EU law in these agreements. We consider this to be a positive development. Now, beyond this specific agreement, this is a general regulation. We consider this to be a small positive step forward. At the same time, we will always oppose free trade agreements which, where appropriate, reduce the sovereignty of a country or even reduce the leeway of a local government, for example, in the various trade agreements on services, so overall it is positive and the LMP fraction will vote in favour of the proposal. Thank you very much.
u2022-06-07-253	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I ask the author, he wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] It says no. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. He applied for a post-meeting speech, "No home doctors in the country"? János Bencze, representative of Jobbik. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-06-07-254	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, I've heard a lot of nice and good things about how much improvement has been made, what has been built in the countryside, what has happened in health care, and I can confirm that. Very nice medical clinics were built with 12 centimeters of thermal insulation, beautiful thermally insulated windows, tiles up to the ceiling, but there are other problems. To understand, I'd like to approach it a little bit the way we live in the country. People in the country are getting older, we're getting 59th birthday, and before anyone thinks about being devious, it's the average age of general doctors. 59 years is the average age in today's GP society. What does that mean? It means we have to get a GP everywhere, but somehow he doesn't; he doesn't show up, he doesn't, he disappears. What happened? What has happened in the last 32 years is that the countryman has become a special torturer to get to a doctor, to get to the general doctor who would watch over his health. Think about it. If anything happens to the smallest, we need to get to a pediatrician. There are settlements in Hungary, not even one where there is not even a pediatrician or a general doctor. But let's just say there's a pediatrician, and we have to coordinate with our hours, and we'll figure this out. But there are settlements where a pediatrician orders one day a week, like the Tolna County Uppers. This is how important it is to the respected two thirds, who once again do not sit before me, the health of Hungarian children and those living in the Hungarian countryside. So it's the same with adult doctors. An average Hungarian citizen who takes his time working with the multinational, the small businessman, anywhere in rural villages is facing almost impossible logistics to reach his own home doctor. What will be the result? The result of this will be that people lose the will to go to the doctor, get tired of the torture, don't leave, get sicker than they were, and don't live to see the retirement age. So many people don't celebrate their 59th birthday with the world celebrating them, but are happy to be home. I would like to ask our respected government, the two-thirds, to set up medical training that is sharpened on the general public; what they promise, which is good and good, is to ensure that all Hungarians in the country get access to a general doctor. I know it's not gonna be easy, because it hasn't worked in 12 years. After thinking of common sense, if they started this 12 or 10 years ago, it should be a result; but no one started it for some reason in Hungary. So I turn to the current Hungarian government with this respectable question: you have the ball, maximum two-thirds, start, and in 12 years, or those sitting in these lines, you can report that you have succeeded perfectly. Thank you. (The chair was chaired by Dr. János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament.)
u2022-06-07-255	I would like to welcome my fellow Members. We'll get back to work. Mr László Varju has applied for a post-meeting speech from the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-07-256	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. As in my tradition, in this case again: what happens in Újpesten? I would like to answer this question, in particular, so that the experiences and lessons learned there give us all the opportunity to do so and to reach conclusions and take action on important matters. I would like to speak today for the protection of animals. The recent incident caused general indignation when a hunter slaughtered a family of wild boars, including the striped pigs, in a green area near John's Hospital, in broad daylight in front of passersby. The sight made a small child sick, and he had to call an ambulance. It is not yet clear by whose orders, with whose permission, the carnage that endangers people has taken place. In any case, the police are investigating, the procedure is in motion. However, the problem is more serious. Recently, they also met a wild boar family in the Richrét settlement, and there were several such cases in my constituency, Újpesten, and I did not mention the settlements in Balaton where all of this happened regularly. The emergence of wild animals that pose a risk to humans in these cases is becoming increasingly common in residential areas, and there is no reassuring procedure for dealing with such cases. If it is inevitable, the solution can also be their launch, and there is also the established rule, which, in the mountain case, seems to have been broken several times, but it is an inhumane procedure to shoot pious and harmless animals and, in this sense, to destroy little pigs. The investigation, as I mentioned, is underway. In general, wild boars in inland areas tend to stay there in the same way as others. They're not from the surrounding forest areas, they're wrong there, they're from the city, they're urbanized, and there are individuals who have been living in urban environments for generations. Their stress tolerance has increased, i.e. a situation has developed that otherwise they are not disturbed by the barking dog, the screaming reflex, and so they live with people. [[19.00]] The current regulation does not confer on anyone the task of killing or catching game in the inner area of the settlement. The necessary authorisation shall otherwise be granted by the competent police authority. In order to address the problem of domestic game, local authorities can currently employ qualified specialists, such as field guards or an entrepreneur specialising in the capture of animals. There is an animal and nature conservation guard service in Újpesten, which has several years of recognised professional experience and technical conditions for the capture of animals. As a strategic partner of the Újpest Animal and Nature Guard, the Újpest Animal and Nature Guard is working closely with the police, the Metropolitan Government and the Újpest Public Space Inspectorate. If the animal protection guard was legally authorised to deal with problems related to domestic game, capture would be the primary priority instead of killing the game and thus avoid the need to kill the domestic game. The Law on the Protection of Wildlife, the Law on Wildlife Management and the Law on Wild Hunting, and the Decrees on Enforcement of the FVM, currently state that the capture of wild game must be handled in a gentle manner and that it should be used as a means of safety and health. In the event of the capture of the wildebeest causing its inability to move, the veterinary treatment shall be provided immediately. Dear House, Mr President, In the interests of protecting the animals, I wanted to speak out so that we could do everything possible to ensure that these directives were effective and that we could look after the living creatures living with us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-07-257	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Zoltán Varga also applied for the post-meeting speech from the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-07-258	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I'm Debrecen, and I'm a proud Debrecen, so I can safely say that Debrecen can't be another Göd. As Debrecen, we will preserve the cleanliness of the city of Debrecen, the environment of the city of Debrecen and the lands around Debrecen, whatever happens. Yet, the Fidesz leaders and representatives of Debrecen, even members of the government, blow victory marches when they show up in Debrecen that they are making progress in the city, Debrecen. But what progress can it be considered, I ask: if the best and most valuable lands in the city, and even in the country, are managed, concrete them down to the goals of various automotive multinationals? And I don't have to say that, for example, the government's flagship investment, the construction of the BMW factory, is already taking years off. The country's budget already costs hundreds of billions of forints to prepare for the investment, to expropriate the land and to create the necessary infrastructure. Unfortunately, it also turns out that, according to the plans of the BMW management, it will now only bring the production of the new fully robotized electric platform to Debrecen, which, in turn, projects the employment of less than a thousand employees. This is also, of course, if everything goes according to the new form of paper, so if the economic recession stops, and the vehicle manufacturers among them can reverse it with the currently known falling demand and a sharp fall in sales, and they can overcome the lack of chips or even the crisis in steel production caused by the war. But whether it's done or not, we don't know that. However, in addition to the BMW, of course, other players in global vehicle manufacturing are looking for the opportunity to create new production bases and factories with relatively little investment, even near the European market, with the cheapest possible workforce. In particular, China's capital-powered investors are at the forefront here, and we see this very well not only in the country, but also in Debrecen, who prefer an economic, political environment and countries, in line with their own goals, where workers have a weaker ability to assert their interests, and, moreover, the government is, let us say, somewhat flexible, for example, with European environmental regulators. Therefore, neither in the country nor in Debrecen can we marvel at the news that the Fidesz governors of the city of Debrecen, besides the government's tellers, have been hovering for long or long weeks that the Chinese CATL, the largest player in the global battery market in Debrecen, can build up its latest European production base in a huge 45-acre area in the Southern Industrial Park in Debrecen, and, of course, I do not have to say that it is again the country, the best land in the city. Needless to say, Fidesz in Debrecen has already fooled the Debrecen General Assembly to change, for example, the installation rules in the Southern Industrial Park. The extent of the installation has been increased from 50 to 60 percent, while the mandatory green area should be held on! It was reduced from 30 to 20 percent by the Fidesz General Assembly. And these are just the first steps to sweeten up one of the Chinese players in the otherwise polluting battery production, which has already been reported to be, in the least, not a friend of green policy or environmental protection. But why did I just tell you about Göd? After all, there is the increasing scandals of the Samsung factory and Samsung factory, the polluting activity, which all prove that Asian investors are least interested in the health of Hungarian people and the protection of nature. In addition, the statement by the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Technology and Industry that battery technology is where the Hungarian government is trying to take positions is also significant. And then, please, as a resident of Debrecen, as a politician, as a parent and now as a grandparent, I warn the leaders of our city and of the illegitimate government, for whom it is not expensive that, no matter what, we will certainly not allow Debrecen to become another Göd in Hungary. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-07-259	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'm asking you very nicely not to use that phrase, because I can't do anything but withdraw from you, and if I cancel it twice a day, then there will be other consequences. Thank you very much for your understanding. Mr Balázs Barkóczi also applied for the post- Agenda speech from the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-06-07-260	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning of May, it was reported that Tungsram, a long-standing company, plans to lay off some 1,600 employees from the autumn of this year. In this context, some 400 people will be sent from Tungsram's location in Újpest, i.e. the downsizing affects the lives of 400 families, endangering the lives and livelihoods of 400 families. In my constituency, the 15th. In the district and in Újpesten, there are hardly any people whose ancestors, relatives, acquaintances or friends were not employed by the company, since the story and fate of Tungsram and North Pest were joined more than a hundred years ago. That is why it is shocking that the government, which is so fond of being national, does not treat Tungsram as a worthy strategic partner either, because the written question that my fellow Member László Varju immediately submitted after the establishment of the new Parliament, namely what the government is about to do for the company and the workers, was thrown back with the false reasons, not even to answer that it is still addressed to the old Parliament. But even more shocking, the government has not taken any action since to find a solution to the further fate of 1,600 redundant workers, including 400 workers in Újpest. Even at the beginning of May, a multilateral discussion with the company's leaders, the representatives of the Parliaments of North Pest and the local governments involved was organised, where we had a dialogue on how to provide effective assistance to workers before dismissal, a Fidesz parliamentary representative from the Újpest list, Barna Zsigmond, did not come, even though he was invited. Pál Zsigmond Barna did not have an hour and a half to talk personally about the fate of 400 Újpest families, since neither he nor the governing parties are interested in what will happen to people on the streets, nor do they seem to care about the fate of the government's strategic partner, Tungsram. On the other hand, we, the representatives of the Democratic Coalition, are very concerned about this issue. [[19.10]] That is why we are doing everything we can and that is why we are participating in conciliation forums and that is why we are trying to find solutions. As Members of Parliament, we feel responsible for those who, due to the inadequacy of the government, are faced with the horror of unemployment in the current, already difficult economic situation. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, This issue cannot be dealt with as soulless, as you have done so far, with all responsibility. As a result of this act of doing nothing, the latest news is that Tungsram's company is going to start dismantling and redundancies in the summer months instead of in September, the beginning of autumn. Yes, you have heard that 400 workers in Újpest and their families need weeks to deal with the problem, maybe days, don't give me a god, in days to find a way to keep workers out of the street, and not to get jobs away from their homes in an inaccessible time. Even so, you're not doing anything. However, we are on site with the XV. We take care of each other in the district and in Újpesten, and we do our job, because that's what we've done, and that's what we've been authorized to do by the voters. As a first step in support and assistance, the trade union leaders were invited to attend the meeting on 27 May at the XV. a job fair in the district, which they accepted. Next week, in consultation with the leaders and representatives of the companies and businesses involved in the job fair, we will pass on the data and offers collected there to the leaders of the Tungsram trade union, so that the workers made redundant are able to find out directly about job opportunities in the area, to contact the companies concerned as soon as possible and to relocate as soon as possible. As opposed to you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, we believe that it is our duty to protect the people who live here, our duty to help families in distress, and we know that it is not the sound of success, but this is the true patriotism, which serves Hungary and its XV. The interests of the district and Újpest. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-07-261	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congresswoman Andrea Hegedüs also applied for the post-meeting speech from the DK Group. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2022-06-07-262	Mr President, Dear House, My first speech in Parliament was to thank the teachers in Miskolc for the positive changes they made to their profession on the occasion of their teaching day, there is finally a Ministry of Education, there is a 60 percent increase in wages, respect, recognition, increase in numbers, replacements, and there is no overload. But it's not real. In public education, after continuing disappointment so far, new and more shocking government rash statements and failed decisions have to be experienced. The most pressing areas of expertise are designed solely on an economic and political basis. There's a lack of wages, a lack of wages, a lack of wages. The pay table is calculated not from the current, but from the minimum wage of 2014 of HUF 101 500. A career-starting educator earns HUF 150,000 net. It takes 20 years to reach 300,000 forints. The teacher's wages have been cut off from the average graduating income. Let an educator be exemplary in all areas, so says the saying, be elegant in appearance, know, use the most modern digital tools, take an example of his personal travels! But it all takes money. How? The budget. Work it out. You are celebrating them with a shower, a card, a thousand-forint gift certificate. You understand, they have a living problem. They have to consider how much vegetables they buy for a meat soup. In the Miskolc market, the soup soup package is 1000 HUF, the potato kilo is 420 HUF, so a weekly cash purchase is 10 thousand HUF. How to ensure your lifelong training when a cheap professional book costs 3 thousand forints, a monthly combined lease of 7700 forints, and I have already exceeded the starting salary. Our talented educators are not appreciated by the government. The second major problem is the shortage of teachers, which would have been too late not yesterday, but the day before yesterday. Who's gonna be standing on the cathedron in a few years? Today, the majority of the faculty is over 50 years old. In eight to ten years, more than half will be off the field. The system is drifting to the brink of failure. In the faculty of a small town, there are four or five more vacant posts in the villages. Dear Mr. Parragh, Where do you live as the government's mouthpiece? What, four o'clock in the afternoon, and you've got a summer break? ! From morning to late afternoon, they teach in a row without holes, and then continue the replacements at the teacher's office or at home. In addition to their own classes, they do not replace the classes of existing ghost teachers. Realistics are taught by human colleagues, undergraduates in the upper class, seniors in the lower class perform without professional qualifications. They're exhausted, they're tired. Do you have a vision of public education? Sure. I quote Katalin Novák's boring housewife from Germany wrote her blog: "I am grateful to the fate that we are not driven from home by the coercion that we are not living as hospital nurses or educators with ridiculous incomes. There are many teachers and teachers among you. Stop sneaking around and act on behalf of your former colleagues. They don't lose their teaching jobs if they dare to talk. What does a teacher hear today? That they don't have a concept. The education government strategy is a tragedy, the tragedy of the Hungarian people. They don't need educated people, people who can make their own opinions. They're trying to beat students' heads with no practical knowledge from their equatorial books. The partial heads of institutions and the study districts are programmed to carry out a strong central control. At last, engage in a worthwhile dialogue with your former teachers, trade unions, with successful good practices in other countries, if you are not able to develop such practices. Teachers, when they stand up, do it not only for themselves, but also for all of us, for your children and grandchildren. They want to tell us there's a problem. The alarm bell is ringing all the time. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-06-07-263	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, former group leader, applied for a post-meeting speech from the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2022-06-07-264	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In my speeches after the agenda, I talk about the problems of my country, Pécs, and the possibilities for solving problems. I must now address a very serious and tense question here in front of you. The address of the speech could also be how many accidents will still have to happen on Route 66 in order to finally take action. Well, we're very confident that none of them and no other tragedy will happen before the authorities finally take action to resolve the extremely dangerous state of the road. There are huge traffic on the route 66 between Pécs and Manfa, thousands of cars pass every day, and unfortunately, all of us living in the region experience an enormous risk of accidents in this section. There have been 36 accidents since 2018. Unfortunately, there have been a very large number of serious accidents, and in many cases these traffic accidents have unfortunately ended tragically. I get a call from the people in Pécs, Komlón and the region almost daily to act as soon as possible, but I myself use this section almost daily, so I can see exactly how dangerous it is. I also contacted the Baranya County Police Department at the end of last year, as well as the authorities of the Hungarian Road. I got answers from both directions. The police responded that, of course, they were aware of this accident hazard, and they also indicated that the road had to change the traffic order because of the high number of accidents that took place in a short period of time. Unfortunately, no matter what the authorities did, we have not managed to avoid such a large number of accidents, because since then we have been able to read about very, very many accidents in the press, and we have all experienced this section of the road. I received a reply from the road operator, where it was also acknowledged that the road section was extremely dangerous and indicated that a government decision had already been taken in connection with the section of road 66 between Pécs and Manfa, which advocated renovation. Indeed, if we look into it, a government decision has already been taken in April 2014, which specifically deals with this road. The element of this government decision, as well as the government decision, advocates the reinforcement of the hull, the placement of the road safety elements, the correction of the accident-dangerous arcs, and the design of the lanes turning left in the nodes. [[19.20]] So it can be said that both the authorities and the various development firms, the competent ones, and the decision-makers are well aware that this section of the road is very, very dangerous, but, despite previous decisions, we do not see any evidence of action. We are very confident that we will finally be able to launch some kind of action, and that all the problems will finally be faced at this level by the decision-makers that exist. I get a lot of signals about the fact that the quality of the road surface is particularly poor, and we also get indications that there are very often different oil spills, resulting in extremely dangerous situations at this poor surface quality. It is also clear to everyone, and it is also written to me by a lot of people living there and using the road that many people do not respect the existing restrictions, exceed the speed limit, very often cross the line because of strange curves, and obviously this is unacceptable. So you can see that there is something to be done, that would be done, even beyond or before the concrete renovation works, so I am going to take the initiative again to have increased police control on this road, and many of you have also indicated to me that it might be justified to set up a permanent speedometer station, which might deter individual motorists or motorcyclists from breaking the rules. I also consider this a good and considered idea, and I will also propose this. I really hope that there will be no more serious accidents before the actions begin, but I can promise everyone that I will represent this matter, and every time an accident happens again, I will draw the attention of the authorities to the fact that action must be taken here. I really hope everyone feels responsible for the road trip. It should also be said here that I was obviously talking about a specific section of the road, but otherwise this is an important element of a national system problem, an important symptom, since we know that there are 17 thousand kilometres of public roads in the category of "bad" and "non-compliant" and that this situation is deteriorating year after year. So, let alone solve this problem, let alone improve the quality of the road network, but because they spend so little on it, the problem is getting bigger and there will be an increasing proportion of roads in the Hungarian road network where renovation is not even understandable and it is practically necessary to rebuild. I think that those responsible should feel that this situation cannot be maintained and that there must be an immediate supply of resources, and that we will also fight in the budgetary debate that we are about to begin. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Laszlo Varju applauds.]]
u2022-06-07-265	Thank you very much, Congressman. After the agenda, Mr Péter Ovadi from the Fidesz Group applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-07-266	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the floor. The last time I spoke after the agenda, I spoke about the cultural capital of Veszprém, but within that, my time allowed me only to talk about investment in infrastructure; of course, we are preparing with much more of the cultural capital of Europe, as in 2023 Veszprém and its region will be the cultural capital of Europe. We believe in community and common thinking, therefore VEB2023 Zrt. help and involve cultural, gastronomic and sports businesses and municipalities in the region with open and entrepreneurial spirit. As I said, not only will Veszprém, but Veszprém and its region represent the cultural capital of Europe. The 118 municipalities and their businesses can apply for the announced programme elements. Such applications include the application for support for cultural and artistic programmes, the application for support for wine and gastro-cultural programmes, the street development programme, the KultHáló program or the Pajta programme, whose main aim is to help the local communities of small settlements achieve important and relevant cultural services, and to expand cultural supply. The programme also supports the initiative of local cultural institutions and civil society organisations, which can substantially develop cultural capacities, focusing on the importance of personal and personal links. I am particularly proud of the latter, since one of its flagships is the settlement of the constituency, Lokút. The new catering units, each of which has a small twist: the paper dog is a cultural bistro, where on weekdays you can listen to world-class musicians; Wine&Vinyl, which is not only a wine bar, but also a vinyl shop; the Kunszt design shop, gallery and bistro cafe; the Pekedl Satócshop, the Füge ice-cream yard and café. Of course, besides the already existing colourful cultural palettes, the city of the Hungarian Motion Picture Festival, together with Balatonfüred, has been hosted for the third year in addition to the Utcazene Festival, Auer Festival, VeszprémFest and Rosé, Rizling and Jazz Days. I thank the Government of Hungary, of course, because it is state aid that makes it possible to implement the above. Thank you for the fact that, in addition to the substantial financial support, by adopting the Veszprém Act, the State has also helped to implement the projects, and also that it felt so important for our state to implement it, that in 2019 Dr. Tibor Navracsics appointed Tibor as the government commissioner responsible for the implementation of the ECF programme, Veszprém-Balaton 2023. So we are prepared, and I am sure that all the dreams that are in progress will be in place by the end of the year, so that in January 2023, when all Europe is watching us, we can be even more proud to live in a wonderful countryside, hugging Bakony and Lake Balaton. We invite everyone with great love and wait for him to celebrate with us. Thank you so much for listening.
u2022-06-07-267	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lajos Löcsei also came forward from the Momentum Group after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-06-07-268	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to begin with a personal story. When I was a freshman in college, I applied for a dorm space to solve my housing. Social aspects were also taken into account in the evaluation, which meant that I had to be a very good candidate, but unfortunately I was rejected. Without my knowledge, my mother turned to the then minority ombudsman, Dr. Jenő Kaltenbach, for an appeal, who, with his powerful help, was able to enforce my need when assessing the place of residence in the dorm. The Ombudsman's institution is a treasure, which we should be very careful of; the Ombudsman is a lawyer of the people, to whom people on the edge of society can turn bravely. The ombudsman's institution before 2010 was indeed a well-functioning body with increasing social recognition, the first of which was given by the adoption of the Fundamental Law transforming the Ombudsman's institution, my fellow Members and fellow members of the Government. In 2011, Ernő Kállai, Commissioner for Minority Rights, who is still in office, made the following statement before the Fundamental Law came into force, and I quote: "The current Minority Commissioner has contributed to the prevention and spread of ethnic conflicts in the form of legal measures and solutions at local and national level. Ernő Kállai also drew attention to the maladministration of the institution's changes described in the Fundamental Law, as he said, and I quote, this change of the Fundamental Law leads to a significant step backwards in the area of minority rights and leads to the systematic breakdown of the results of minority policy over the past two decades. I wanted to explain that, while reducing the effectiveness of legal protection, the withdrawal of the special Commissioner's independent powers sends the wrong message to minority citizens who give about 10 percent of the population. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You have apparently let go of Ernő Kállai's warnings, and unfortunately, the fears of Ernő Kállai seem to be confirmed. What happened was that Dr. Ákos Kozma, Hungarian Ombudsman, was designated by the World Federation of National Human Rights Institutions:.A. was replaced from category to category B. [[19.30]] Because Dr. Ákos Kozma and his office did not adequately address all the human rights problems that came before him and did not speak out about them, did not protect civilians, freedom of the press and the independence of the courts. Classification for category B means that the Hungarian Ombudsman no longer has the right to vote or to hold office at the meetings of the World Federation, nor can he participate actively in the work of the UN Human Rights Council. But perhaps the message to us, to Hungarians, towards Hungarian citizens is much more disappointing, because classification in category B means that our Hungarian Ombudsman has played his role. No wonder, for when it should have, he failed to fulfill his obligation under the Fundamental Law! It did not take action when the so-called lex Gyöngyöspata law was introduced as a legal ghetto, it did not ask for the clarity of the text of the homophobic anti-pedophile law and its suitability for human rights violations. He did not speak when the president of a party representing himself in Parliament compared the largest minority of Hungary to a biological weapon, not least when teachers were deprived of their fundamental rights to strike. Ladies and gentlemen, It has been proven that the Ombudsperson's institution, which has been transformed by the Fundamental Law, has not been successful. I therefore call for your support in re-establishing the protection of fundamental rights by independent and equal ombudsmans in different fields of expertise. I ask that the policy finally departs from the Ombudsman's system. In order to achieve this, I will try to take advantage of my position and the opportunity given to me by every law, whether it be a legislative proposal or a multitude of speeches. If this does not happen, I quote Sándor Márai's statement: "We remain a pagan and barbarian people with a top hat on our head and crucifix in our hands. Thank you very much. [[Laszlo Varju applauds.]]
u2022-06-07-269	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you for your day's work. Parliament will resume its meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. I'm closing the meeting, saying good night to all of you.
