u2022-10-25-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning, fellow Members. I would like to welcome all of you and welcome all of you who are following our meeting today. I would like to inform you that in the chair of this meeting, Attila Gelencsér and Sándor Berki will help me. In the framework of pre-meeting speeches, I would first like to ask Mr Matthew Kanász-Nagy of the Group of the LMP, who has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-10-25-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Minister of State Zsófia Koncz said yesterday, among other things, that Péter Ungár's speech before the Green Consultation agenda, and I quote: for infrastructure and physical reasons, it cannot be guaranteed without Russian gas, and this is not an ideological issue. We were talking about Hungary's energy supply. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Dear Secretary of State, However, we very much believe that this is not only a professional and technical issue, but also a very ideological issue and a matter of value choice. It is very much a matter of value choice that the Hungarian government has chosen Russian dependence and hydrocarbon dependence over the past 12 years, and they are still trying to follow this path. The fact that we depend on Russia and depend on hydrocarbons is a situation that has now been proven to have terrible consequences. I am thinking about the energy crisis and the climate crisis, and unfortunately, these two are hand in hand, and Hungary is much more affected by the energy crisis than any other European country. The politicians of Fidesz have said over the past decade that fossil energy sources can be used without limit, and from the other side wind power has been banned, solar energy has been taxed and the country has been forgotten to be isolated. Mihály Varga, the government's own minister, has also warned you that there is a huge deficiency in the insulation programme, that it has not been taken since 2010, even though, when Fidesz had an election promise, it was promised to Hungary. What we see is that what the government has launched is also about strengthening Russian dependence. They continue to think about hydrocarbons, gas, oil, sustainable green solutions they still do not really want to take into account. This is why we have launched our Green Consultation, and we would like to ask people's opinions, not only about the situation, but also about the real sustainable green solutions. I'd like to ask you here to proceed with this green consultation. They have previously been shut down to address such green issues, but let us look at the various issues of LMP in this Green Consultation, and I urge everyone here to complete the LMP consultation on solutions, which will address, among other things, the energy crisis. Our first question is how the government plans to abolish the ban on wind power. Here, the government representatives, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán himself, acknowledged that there was a debate within the government on this, but the Prime Minister also said that it would be good for Parliament to express itself in this regard. I ask you to manifest yourselves here in Parliament what you think of this issue. My second question is that you are planning to launch a comprehensive building insulation programme. Not one that affects only 4-5-10-15 thousand families a year, but hundreds of thousands and millions could benefit from such a programme, which would naturally reduce emissions, reduce gas consumption and help us to become independent of Russia and fossil energy. Minister Mihály Varga reminded you of the importance of this programme. My third question is that you are planning to abolish the solar tax. Now, when, by withdrawing feed-in, energy is not allowed to be fed into the system, which is produced by households and businesses with solar energy, this seems to be a small gesture, but it would be important if this tax were finally abolished. My fourth question concerns air conditioning. Here they have been revealed weeks, months ago, perhaps the Secretary of State of Bence Rétvári has also shown that internal government investigations are being carried out on the introduction of the climate lease, testing, watching, modeling this measure, there is a very successful German example in this regard. I would like to ask where this study is going and when the climate lease will be introduced in the interest of promoting public transport. The fifth green consultation question of the LMP concerns investment in Paks II. We would like to stop this investment, not even in the midst of the energy crisis can nuclear energy be harmful, dangerous and also strengthening Russian dependence as a solution. You're gonna shut down the Paks II investment and get rid of the hydrocarbon dependence? Where are the green solutions? Thank you very much. [[Miklós Soltész: Iron Applause!]]
u2022-10-25-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. Since the Member called on the Secretary of State, I think she will answer on behalf of the Government. [[For signal:]] Yeah. So, on behalf of the Government, Deputy Minister Zsófia Koncz will answer the question. Here you go.
u2022-10-25-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to thank you for correctly quoting yesterday's speech, which, I think, is full of reality, because especially before a winter period, we should talk about the fact that energy supply is not a physical, infrastructural issue, but an ideological issue, I think it would be a mistake, because the most important thing is that Hungarian families can heat, have enough natural gas in winter, and that Hungarian companies can operate. However, I would also like to say that no one has done more than the Orbán government in order to diversify, and let me give you some examples. On the one hand, if we remain on the issue of natural gas, it must be pointed out in all respects that we have increased the number of interconnectors from two interconnectors to six. This means that, by the way, we are ready to bring other types of natural gas into the country in addition to Russian natural gas, which is why it is huge that the LNG terminal in Krk has been built, and we have concluded a long-term contract from there, and this has been achieved for the first time, so that other types of natural gas in addition to Russian natural gas can arrive in the country. I think this is a very important element of diversification. It is also worth talking about gas reservoirs, and I have to say that a national strategic issue is that we have bought back our natural gas reservoirs, which have been squandered by the left, and now there is more than 80 percent charge for these gas reservoirs, which means that even if there is not a single molecule in the country at all, the country still has enough natural gas for more than six months. These are huge things, especially in the current energy location, which, I think, is a strategic issue in all aspects. Here, the Member also touched on Paks II, the issue of nuclear power. In this connection, I would like to say that nuclear energy is a very important part of domestic electricity supply, and the European Union has recognised this as a clean green energy. I know what you'd like to hear is that we're shutting this down, and if the government did, then I think it would be very, very irresponsible. Therefore, we will extend the operation time of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and begin Paks II. for construction, too. [[9.10]] As I said, the role of the nuclear power plant is indisputable, as it currently represents half of domestic electricity production, 36 percent of domestic use. Let's check the numbers. If the Paks II project is to be stopped, let's look at the carbon-related context of this. Thanks to the Paks II project, emissions of 17 million tonnes of CO2 are avoided annually, and we are avoiding 14 million tonnes of CO2 each year thanks to the existing Paks bloc. I think that this is a huge value, in the case of cooperation between the two, this means more than 30 million tons of carbon dioxide per year. And speaking of consultations in general, I think it is very important that we ask people's opinions during national consultations. I know that you have not exactly made positive statements in this regard, but I think that you are looking at the opinion of the Hungarian people who are filling it in, and consider it important that, in the current European situation, we do talk about these issues. The current war situation, on which we clearly state our position from the very beginning, is that peace is needed, and sanctions on it have an incredibly bad impact on the lives of all Europeans, and we pay a penalty premium for energy, cause inflation, we think it is not a good direction, and we do need to ask people what they think about the situation. However, in order to effectively address energy sovereignty and the energy crisis, the government remains committed to harnessing the clean energy sources of the future, which is why we consider it important to generate geothermal energy. Overall, I must say that I think that we are in agreement with the Member on several points, but I would ask that the Government recognise its efforts so far. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-25-4	Thank you very much. Dear House, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Parliament, has applied for a speech before the agenda from the Group of our countries. Here you go, Madam Vice President. You have the floor.
u2022-10-25-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Balatonaliga is a beautiful but vomited settlement, the Communist leaders of the Rákosi dictatorship took away the centre of the settlement without compensation from the residents, and then created a resort with machine-armed guards for the communist privileged. After the change of regime, the residents might have thought that this beautiful area would finally be used again, but they could not be happy for long, because in 2007 the Gyurcsány government privatized it, sold the 47-acre area to an Israeli company. In 2018, this Israeli company was purchased by Lőrinc Mészáros, and after less than two years the government response was received, since in a government decree practically all legal obligations in the area were abolished and the area of Club Aliga was classified as a priority investment for tourism purposes. This government decree contains such outrageous passages that it prohibits the use of this for road use in the case of otherwise state-owned coastal promenade and state-owned roads, but what may be even more outrageous is that it allows for an 80-percent plot of land in the area of the current beach, so that buildings up to 18 metres high can be erected directly on the beach. The reason why the situation and the government intervention have become very urgent is because five of these sites with a direct coastal section have already been sold to new oligarchs, who, in contrast to the objectives set out in this decree, do not want to build tourism development, but their own private residential property on these sites, and do not legally guarantee the coastal promenade, because the seller somehow forgot from the sales contract that the new owners would also have an obligation to provide the coastal promenade. The legal situation is, therefore, that since the current buyers act in good faith, since the seller is to blame, they can also incorporate the stretches to the shore, and so, if the government does not exercise its pre-emptive right by 21 November, the community will permanently lose this 540-metre section on the shore of Lake Balaton and it will fall into private hands. This whole transaction is not only outrageous and illegal, but it is also illegal, because the government decree also includes tourism development, even though it is about housing and their construction. It should also be recalled that, under the same government decree, they wanted to build a residential park in Balatonvilagos in 2021, but the building permit was revoked by the Prime Minister's Office after 17 days, on the same ground that it is only the development for tourism purposes that the Government decree applies if housing is built in this area, it cannot permit it. This is an extremely strong precedent for you to take action again and save this stage of Lake Balaton. I have the terrible and sad news that the construction has already begun. I personally visited this area last week, and I saw with my own eyes that 30-40-year-old trees were cut out in order to deepen the river of Lake Balaton for these oligarchs in the harbor and have their ships parked there. So we are at the last moment to save this part of the coast for the community, and the interest of the oligarchs cannot override the public interest of the people. So there are three legal options for the government. One is that 23 out of 24 sites are excluded from the scope of the Government Decree, for which investment is not actually planned for tourism purposes. The second, simplest solution would be to repeal the whole priority government regulation, and then the Balaton law would apply to this area as well. But what's most urgent, and what they have less than a month left for these five sites is that they use their pre-emptive right to set up a beach promenade, and only then, without the beach promenade, they sell these plots. If they don't do this, this beach promenade will be lost once and for all to the community. Are they on the side of the oligarchs or the people? Now it's gonna come out, thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-10-25-6	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csepreghy Nándor, State Secretary, responds. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-10-25-7	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank you for the opportunity, before the Parliament, to talk about two draft laws on your question, one of which will be presented to you in the following weeks and the other in the following months: this is the full and comprehensive settlement of the Public Investment Framework Act and the Construction Regulation. I mention these two laws because the framework of these two laws raises the very points of law that are represented by a representative woman, so that nothing can be built in Hungary, in a way that does not match the will of the lowest, but democratically authorised, community representation, which is not enforced through the local government through the local will in the building regulations. The question of Club Aliga and Balatonvilágos is not the first time before the National Assembly, since after the formation of the government, after the spring-summer round, the Minister was interpelled in several circles, and the result of this is today that, contrary to the original installation plan, which would have allowed for the installation of 250 thousand square meters on the basis of the local government permit, today, at the moment, the investor's intention, according to our knowledge, concerns 67 thousand square metres. I am talking about this in a conditional way because the discussions between the municipality and the investor that the Minister asked for were started, and the result of these discussions was that, in negotiations with the municipality, the investor withdrew the investment plan for which he had originally been authorised, and the government office withdrew the permits to use the environment until new plans were submitted. [[9.20]] Indeed, she is right that we are facing a back-to-back problem here for several decades, since an area that was privatised in the 1990s should have served a public purpose, but, in the current state, this issue of private property and public property cannot be decided by the State at the external intervention level. As you said, until November 21st, the municipality may exercise its pre-emptive right. Yesterday, Minister, you received a letter from the mayor on this matter. Next week, Minister, you will answer this letter to the mayor. However, we would like to guarantee, either through construction regulations or through strengthening local government representation, that only improvements can be made in this area that coincide with the interests of the local community. There are three things that need to be cut apart. On the one hand, the protection of Lake Balaton as a natural value, and, on the other hand, the fact that nothing can be built against the will of the local community that creates aesthetic confusion there, and, thirdly, the maximum achievement of the tourist objectives, i.e. the lake's approach. However, only the municipality and the investor can negotiate these three aspects with each other, since the local construction regulations determine what can be built in these areas after the sale, if it happens. This comes from the local construction regulations. If anyone wants to build anything contrary to local construction regulations, the later owner can block it, since the land office will not note these permits on the bill of lading. So the local government has the possibility, through the local construction regulations, to limit this. With regard to the two laws mentioned above, the Investment Act and the Municipal Picture Laws, the Hungarian State will strengthen the powers of the municipalities in this direction and support them in order to ensure the full implementation of the public goal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-25-8	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr András Imre Jámbor has applied for a speech from the Group of Dialogue before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-10-25-9	Thank you for the floor. The Fidesz said in the campaign that there will be no cuts, no increase in the cost of the rent. According to Intrum Research Institute's research in Portfolio, 3.9 percent of households, some 161 thousand households, 161 thousand families, will fall for your overhead. A further 7.5 percent is severely at risk and 10.5 percent is slightly at risk. This means that nearly 1 million households and families are at risk in Hungary today. These figures can shake the country to the same extent as the foreign exchange credit crisis. All this by nothing you have done to alleviate the housing crisis in the last 12 years. House and rent prices are brutally increasing, and a young beginner can't even dream of living alone because of high interest rates. Today, a young person gets an apartment, not depending on how hard you are or how capable you are, but on how he inherits it from his parents. You have not launched a public rental program, you have not supported the municipalities in this area, you have not substantially expanded the dormitory space system, and you have allowed the Hungarian housing stock to rot so much that 70 percent of Hungarian homes and houses need investment in energy efficiency. But you'd think that at least in the crisis, they care about the needy. On the other hand, it is written in the social law that the state can only, in exceptional cases, help those in need, and that they are not willing to do anything to at least help or hope for decent treatment for those who have lost their homes because of your policies. Although the Völner-Schadl case has been prosecuted, despite your promises in the campaign, they continue to sabotage the system of executions, the elimination of lawlessness and injustice. Yet, in recent weeks we have seen plenty of lawlessness and injustice. I'm hearing complaints about miswritten debts, illegal evictions, extortion of executioners. But the system of implementation should also be reviewed in terms of injustice. For example, it is not possible for a person's life to depend on what district he lives in, on which municipality he received a local government apartment. Annex VIII is replaced by the text set out in the Annex to this Regulation. For example, the district will be evicted only in the final case, but only in the case of families, after the completion of social work that preserves and strengthens independent housing, after the possible failure of the debt settlement and management programme. On the other hand, we saw that in the Fidesz District V, after Péter Szentgyörgyvölgyi voted in the General Assembly on 28 September that he would not put anyone on the street, then on 6 October he evicted a 67 - year - old sick woman, Zsuzsa, and made her homeless. However, the municipal law requires that local authorities in particular prevent homeless persons from becoming homeless. Zsuzsa was put on the street for a debt of HUF 300,000, with the former head of the Executive Faculty, who was now charged with another case, earning HUF 700,000 per square metre when he received municipal property from this district. Zsuzsa was put on the street for 300,000 forints by the 12th district clerk. in the district, he has a debt of up to 800,000, while in his own district he owes more than 1 million. After all, no one sent the bailiff after him. I'm asking you to stand on the side of the truth, don't let a few hundred grand in debt get someone on the street. Together, let us create a new enforcement law that does not help executives, but helps debtors. Let us make rules that at least oblige local governments to properly settle and manage debt and social work. Finally, let us review the affairs of the Executive Faculty. One million Hungarian households are at risk, the minimum is that we are doing justice and justice in this matter. Thank you. [[A round of applause in the dialogue.]]
u2022-10-25-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, replied to his speech before the agenda on behalf of the Government. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-10-25-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. He's touched on a number of topics, so I'm trying to answer the most. As regards housing issues, we want to help young people to acquire their own property. I know there's a big debate between us, and you and the rental program wouldn't help that. We'd like you to have your own place as soon as possible. This has been supported by the family home-building discount for years, the program is running with great success; otherwise, we would like to extend the family support system further. This is supported by baby shower support; it has also been a ten million-dollar grant in itself for years. And this is also supported by housing renovation support, which can be used either for solar installation, or for window replacement, or for energy efficiency investments. I don't know why you think it's so funny, I think it's a real help to young people. As to the question of eviction: I am not fully aware of the details of this case, but I do remember one thing: that this person has not paid rent for several years and that the residential community has requested a procedure. So before you bring this matter to Parliament, I would like to ask you, with respect, to speak to the residential community in front of it, because the procedure that was initiated at their request was many years ago. By the way, if you look at how the individual districts stand in the field of eviction, I would like to inform you that left-wing districts are at the forefront of eviction. [[Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] I think this is an important problem, and I would just like to ask you to extend this dialogue to the left-wing authorities. You claim, in effect, that the government does nothing in social matters, does nothing to help families and businesses. Allow me to bring six rebuttals to the first statement, say, and three to the second. During this extraordinary period, we maintain the system of tax incentives, with HUF 1127 billion remaining in the family this year. We paid the 13th month's pension that your allies took. We'll pay you a pension supplement, and we'll pay you a pension premium at the end of the year. The tax exemption for young people will continue to apply, you know, the tax exemption that you do not support. This also helps to start a life. We extended the gas stop until December 31st. You know, this is the measure that your shadow economic minister would have taken by the end of the summer. We also extended the interest rate stop until the end of June. So it wasn't a left-wing government that put in a interest stop to protect families, it was the government that introduced it. This represents some 140 billion dollars in help for 350 thousand families. And we'll keep up the overhead. You know, the rent subsidy you called a debt lie. This is an average of HUF 181 thousand per month, and a family has to pay less for gas and electricity. And when it comes to businesses: I know you didn't mention it, but I also think it's important because businesses keep jobs. From 15 November, we will extend the interest rate stop to small and medium-sized enterprises and their variable rate loans. We will fix interest at the end of June level. The government has also decided to continue the Széchenyi Card programme as a preferential loan scheme, and a factory rescue programme is also launched to ensure that increased energy prices do not lead to the loss of jobs in individual businesses. The aim is to keep as many jobs as possible in this exceptional situation. [[9.30]] Of course, we also know your proposals, instead of tax incentives, when we are talking about livelihoods, you are thinking about tax increases: you have submitted a tax increase proposal worth more than HUF 3000 billion to the budget. Of course, that doesn't prevent you from being in the front row during the tax demonstrations, while the kata tax was not voted by your allies at all when you had to press a button here in Parliament. The pricestops were also attacked from the hip: the gas stop, as I mentioned, would have been driven out, called the overhead subsidy stupidity and stupidity, not to mention supporting foreign decisions taking lion's share in the current price increases. For example, your party said a few months ago that the gas taps had to be shut off, and your fellow Member even showed that the gas taps had to be shut off. If the gas taps had been shut off, as you suggested, energy prices would be higher than at this level. Under these circumstances, it is fortunate that the left is not on the government during this crisis. It is not all right that Europe is paying the price for the war now, but if it were up to you, it would be even more serious, I say we do not try it. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-10-25-12	Thank you very much. Member Ferenc Varga of the Jobbik Group has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-10-25-13	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I will not say anything new by declaring that the government is unable to deal with the impact of the economic and social crisis itself. However, in recent days, it has also turned out that you want to hide from responsibility is a good example of this amendment to the social law. You say that the problems must be solved at their place of origin and that the intervention of the highest levels, your intervention, must be limited to the minimum necessary. I would agree with this principle of subsidiarity in the EU if it were not for the social law, if it were not for the greatest economic crisis to come up with, and not after 12 years of governance, in which all their steps would have been about decision-making powers and loss of resources and centralisation. But let's get back to changing the social law. What exactly is this about? So far, it has been the responsibility of the individual, the family, the local community, the local government and the state to ensure the conditions of social care. According to the amendment, it would be primarily the responsibility of the individual, then his family, the local government, then the charitable organisations receiving state aid, and only the fifth state appearing in the queue would be the social security of the individual. I mean, the individual can solve his problem any way he wants, he can only count on government help in the final case, well, he can't expect much. In Hungarian: with the submitted bill, the state practically withdraws from the operation of the social care system. Congratulations, this is a real national, Christian government. I don't think he's national or Christian, but he's not even competent. [[Eszter Vitalos: Great words from Jobbik!]] It shows the level of problem solving as an exclusion step in the proposal, but in practice they do not exclude but complement each other completely. I repeat: it's lifeless, so it's impossible, and it's all about your shift of responsibility. You, fellow Members of the Government, are fleeing the responsibility of the economic and social crisis that you yourself have caused. Hundreds of thousands of families' livelihoods have been compromised thanks to your economic policy, people's money is getting less and less expensive, the stores have record inflation, and the overhead costs have skyrocketed. Instead of taking people's side, you push the strings further and place additional burdens on them, precisely with such legislative changes. But I'm going to go on: you can't have an impeccable conscience with regard to the municipalities. Over the past few years, they have been continuously and consciously bled out. At present, the vast majority of them are forced by increased energy costs to shut down public lighting, to close their cultural and social institutions, which even endangers people's lives directly. Instead of giving the municipal authorities public health protection, you are making their current situation even more difficult by amending the social law. Will they also lie about this because of Brussels? How long do you think the Hungarian people will last? You should consult with the people on this, not the sanctions in Brussels, which you have just adopted in the European Parliament. [[Eszter Debate: You're lying!]] There will come a point where the 8 billion national consultation campaign will no longer be enough. There will come a point where they no longer know who to blame, and they cannot lie about their irresponsible government. Why do I say irresponsible? As we have been getting used to, social consultation has been cancelled in connection with this amendment, so much so that this amendment was not included in the draft opinion sent to individual organisations. Why not? I don't wish to assume anything wrong with you, anyone can make a mistake, because we're mortal. You may even thank me for having done this task instead of you, so allow me to convey to you the questions of the Hungarian Association of Social Workers. Who, when and how could apply this provision in the care system? [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] What makes a client self-absorbed in the case of individual social problems? Who's gonna check this out? Finally, ladies and gentlemen of the Government: how Christian do you think your behavior is, how national? Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-10-25-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. The reply to the speaker's speech before the agenda will be given by Deputy Minister Bence Rétvári, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2022-10-25-15	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In all countries of Europe, they are preparing for a much harder winter than the previous winter, because due to the faulty sanctions imposed by the war, the price of petrol has increased everywhere in Europe, there is a price cap in Hungary, the price of food has increased, the price of energy has increased, the price of overhead has increased. You need to be very, very blindsided to stand up in this Parliament to say that there is no increase in prices anywhere else in Europe, only in Hungary, and you need to be very, very blindsided to the way you stood up, that this has nothing to do with war and sanctions. This may be called a prank, honourable Member, but it is what every country in Europe is struggling with. Listen to any prime minister from the countries of the European Union, they will disprove you, because they are all about how to compensate for the increase in prices and inflation caused by sanctions. The pound hasn't had such inflation in a generation, and it hasn't been in America since there was a euro zone, there hasn't been as much inflation in the euro area as it is now. But you say that only in Hungary there are problems [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: He didn't say anything like that!]] Honourable Congressman. [[Eszter Vítalos: This is people's bullshit!]] You have to be very, very blindfolded to say that. We are trying to help people from more than one side, as we have done in the last 12 years, on the one hand, by creating jobs in the last 12 years, we are trying to protect these jobs. You said the same words during the epidemic, you may not have been here in the benches of Jobbik at the time, but your colleagues said the same things, and said that unemployment should be helped, unemployed people should be helped, and that what the government is doing is not the right thing to save jobs. As a result, we followed this policy, that after the outbreak ended, the biggest economic growth in Hungary was 7.1 percent, and employment was record high. So this is to protect incomes. The other is the reduction of expenditure. You're saying this is a bunch of bullshit, and I'm quoting you, I'm sorry. Then let us look at the figures, honourable Member, how much you think people's bullshit costs to consumers in Europe in euro cents, every kilowatt hour: Budapest 9.22; Bucharest 16, London 39, Vienna 43, Brussels 53, Berlin 54, Copenhagen 66 Budapest 9.22. How much does natural gas cost? in the same euro cent, at kilowatt hour: Budapest 5,07, Bucharest 6,29, Brussels 16,3, Berlin 24, Vienna 27, Copenhagen 40, Amsterdam 42 Budapest 5. [[9.40]] This is how we try to protect people whose overhead accounts for one of the largest parts of their expenses to hold them back, much lower. We get these energy sources in the same market, the same as Vienna and Amsterdam, but we only have to pay a fraction of the people, so it is 181,000 forints support for each family that is noticeable. Which means social expenditure, honourable Member, you have not been here in the last 12 years, let me tell you the numbers. When your allies left us the social register, the total amount of that, do you know how much it was? HUF 325 billion. The total amount of social assistance was HUF 325 billion. Do you know how much this year? You already know that. You're sitting right here. Not 325 billion, but 1139 billion. You said that this government was taking away from poor people, while the support for those in need grew from 325 billion to 1139 billion. And we know that next year again has great tasks, so next year we will increase these expenses by HUF 187 billion, and we will increase social spending by more than three times under our governance, because we know that many people need help. And if you look at the break-ups, do you know how much your colleagues spent on eating children? 30 billion forints. Do you know how much we spend? 101 billion. Do you know how much they spent on school milk, school fruit programs? 600 million forints. Do you know how much we spend? 5 billion. Your colleagues didn't vote for it when we introduced the children's home care fee. Your colleagues here in Parliament did not vote for an increase in the care fee, but instead they were trumpeting, yelling and self-fending. Do you know how much they wanted for a care fee? 15 billion. Do you know how much we spend? 67 billion forints. Do you know if social housing has decreased or increased? They've grown, they've grown in thousands of sizes over the last few years. Do you know how many people have received home assistance? Before that, 75,000, now 91,000. At the time, 5,000 people worked to help others with home assistance, now 13,000. At the time, the rate of care support was 145 thousand forints. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Now it's 381,000 forints. This is how we will continue to increase it, whatever you criticize us with, but you have, I stress, not voted for it. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-25-16	Thank you very much. Representative Anna Russian applied for a speech from the Momentum Group before the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-10-25-17	Secretary of State Lords and Women! The day before yesterday, on October 23, 80,000 people protested in NewBuda, at the University of Arts, students, parents and teachers together stood up for the financial appreciation of teachers and the comprehensive reform of education. But not only education, but also the situation of teachers, has become unsustainable, the threat of a livelihood crisis has now reached everyone in the country. We are at the door of one of the worst crises in Hungary after the change of regime. Annual inflation increased by over 20 percent, food prices increased by almost 50 percent, the prices of bread, butter and dairy products increased even more rapidly. You are saying that there is inflation elsewhere on the one hand, and that it is because of the war, but interestingly there is no such brutal price increase anywhere in the region as in Hungary. Annual inflation reached 21 percent in Hungary, inflation in Poland 16 percent, Slovakia 14 percent, Romania 13 percent [[Bence Rétvári: And in Czech Republic? How much in the Czech Republic?]] And even though the war, I think we can agree that it affects everyone in the region. The price of their irresponsible government, the Fidesz price, is paid by the country. Meanwhile, due to the campaign lie of the century, consumers over the average pay double for electricity, they get gas at seven times the price. It's even worse than the municipalities. Next year, the municipality of Newbuda will have to pay 14 times the price for district heating compared to last year in order to heat up crèches, kindergartens and social institutions. Instead of reducing the rent, you were brutally restricting the election to the newbuda children and the needy. Due to historical inflation and overhead growth, the daily lives of the NewBudans and all Hungarian families are dominated by fear, fear and unpredictableness. They fear that they will not be able to pay the bills at the end of the month, that there will not be enough money for shopping, not to mention an extraordinary expense, the installation of a broken household machine, a more expensive medicine, the payment of a special watch. Teachers can no longer cover their basic costs from their humiliatingly low salary. But how could they, when salaries and pensions have lost 20 percent of their value in one year, that is, out of the last 12 months, two and a half practically everyone has worked for free? Despite the government's austerity, NewBudan City Administration is doing everything it can to ease the difficulties. New subsidies were introduced and the old ones were extended to help. With energy, pharmaceutical and food support, we help families in need, and we pay special attention to supplementing the humiliatingly low kindergarten teachers' wages and kindergarten workers' wages with 20-30-40 thousand forints per month in order to ensure that kindergarten workers come out of their monthly salaries at all. I've already listed what we did in NewBuda. Let's see what you're doing about the government. They state that the individual is responsible for his own social security, and if one cannot take care of himself, then let the local government, his family or civil society organisations do so, and only then will the Hungarian state come. Just to illustrate the extent to which this is impossible, the municipality of Újbuda manages from approximately HUF 30 billion annually, of which only HUF 3 billion is to be produced next year to cover the increase in fees. The state manages about a thousand times this, and now, in the greatest trouble, he raises his hand and says that he has a responsibility to help those in need only in the event of a final need. Orbán also emphasizes this, and I quote literally: those who consume above the average, reduce their consumption or earn more! In April this year, you have been authorised to govern the country with the biggest lie in the last 30 years. They promised to protect the economy, reduce the rent, protect the prices. But let's just say the truth: millions now moan about the consequences of Fidesz' irresponsible, harmful policy. What they are doing, and what they are not doing, I cannot interpret differently, just because you have failed the Hungarian people in times of great need, and they are not even willing to face reality, let alone provide meaningful help to those who are in trouble. Thank you. [[Applause in the lines of Momentum and MSZP.]]
u2022-10-25-18	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, will give the answer to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-10-25-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me, Congresswoman, to take my answer into two parts. Firstly, I would like to talk about the root causes of the current economic situation, and the second will be about what the government is doing, which is indeed an important issue. Now I see that we disagree on the root causes. We have said from the outset that it does not matter at all what European responses are being made to the war situation. It could have been a regional conflict, as it was in 2015, but unfortunately it is not now, and the reason for this is that bad economic responses have been made, especially in Brussels, and in the first place because there were no energy sanctions, it has been overwritten since June, as at the last EU summit there has been a very clear signal that they would go further in this area, while the consequences are clear. Now, the main consequences are Europe's economic impact, including Hungary. Now I see the ambition, the desperate effort to try to show that this is all about Hungary. Then let me give you some examples from different parts of Europe. In general, we can say that Europe is facing the horror of recession. Companies limit production or, in some cases, stop, in Germany, one in four family businesses plans dismissals. In Austria, inflation has risen to an unprecedented height for 70 years, and domestic energy prices have increased by 64 percent in one year, so not here, but in Austria. [[Szabolcs Szabó intervenes.]] According to a research institute in Potsdam, the German population should limit its consumption by 30 percent to overcome the energy crisis. According to the German Federal Network Authority, there is still a high chance that Germany will not have enough gas, so this is the case in a much larger and richer country than we do. According to the IMF's calculations, economic growth in the euro area could be half a percentage in 2023, a state of stagnation. According to August data, industrial production has already decreased in five EU Member States. And to say one more thing: OECD analysis shows that the economic prospects of the eurozone have deteriorated the most in the world if we look at the numbers of all major economic areas. [[9.50]] It is clear from these, therefore, that when you claim that only Hungary is affected by economic difficulties, the whole thing is simply not true. [[Anna Russian: Do they also look at the value of wages? The president's ringing the bell.]] And the problem, honourable Member, is that the EU has gone on the road to sanctions without being self-sufficient in energy matters. If I only look at gas supply, it is 40 percent dependent; for Hungary this is 85 percent. In the meantime, Russia, the recipient of sanctions, has already brought together the proceeds that it has made all year round; and to say one more thing, it has increased its sales of oil to China by 30 percent. So it doesn't hurt so much for Russia, American companies make good money, China watches the whole thing from a distance, and Europe suffers. And this is where we face the consequences that you partly referred to. And what does the government do? You think nothing of it. On the other hand, we maintain the system of tax incentives, I mentioned here, we leave more than a thousand billion dollars in the family; we paid the 13th month pension; we pay a pension supplement, a pension premium; the tax exemption of young people remains in place; we extended the petrol stop. If it were up to you, the petrol would not be 480 forints in Hungary, but twice as much. We have extended the food price stop; we are maintaining the interest rate stop, which you also do not support as a price limitation measure, and we are maintaining the premium. I also think it is important to see what scope the government and families have in the matter of rent, and we cannot bypass the fact that we provide an average of HUF 181 thousand in support. If it were up to you, if you were on the government, there wouldn't be such support. And as far as the question of local authorities is concerned, I think it is important that all municipalities assess how they can participate in the joint work in this situation. The only thing I ask is that they do not try to counterbalance inaction by pointing the finger at the government. For years we have listened, at least for months, to the fact that the capital is, for example, bled out. According to its own financial plans, business tax revenue, for example, reaches the level that it was before the epidemic, while increasing steadily in recent years. It also shows that the Municipality of Budapest has the financial scope to participate in this work. If they're incompetent, then they really are. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] One thing we're asking is that you don't hold it all against the government. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-10-25-20	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Imre Komjáthi of the MSZP Group has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-10-25-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Who has nothing, who has not done anything in life, is worth so much. It was more than ten years ago that his infamous sentence was spoken by John. Since then, a lot of water has flown down the Danube, and the government has proved many times that it really thinks that way. The Fidesz government moves forward year after year, month after month on the path of inhumanity, antihumanity. On the basis of Sándor Pintér's idea, they want to pass a law on the state's withdrawal from the guarantee of social security. They say pay taxes, pay contributions, but don't expect anything in return, because according to Fidesz, everyone is responsible for their social security. In Hungary, in 2022, it is stated that everyone is the blacksmith of their own luck. It's a shame! Then, in the order of responsibility, the next level is to help the relatives; if they can't, then the municipalities; if they can't, then the charitable organizations. And if none of these can help, then the state will come. I mean, seriously, you need a face for that. Fidesz just needs the money, no responsibilities, no responsibilities. You don't want what's good for us, you want what's good for us. That's a huge difference, and it's not just a government mistake, it's an anti-national crime. With this law, Fidesz destroys the Hungarian nation, the nation whose most important binding responsibility is for each other, because that is what holds us together, that we know that we can count on each other, that we can count on our fellow countrymen with whom we are all equals, that we are no more and that we are less worth. With this law, Fidesz is now trying to eliminate the responsibility for each other: solidarity. I told you earlier, I'll tell you now: you can sing that you are one blood, but you can't talk about a united nation until the fate of one child is determined by what kind of family you're born into. How empathetic a nation is it whose members overlook the fact that hundreds of thousands of children do not have sufficient quantity and quality of food? How fraternal a nation is it where hundreds of thousands of people do not have access to health care? Ladies and gentlemen, Tell me, how can people be let down when the economic crisis is so big, brutally expensive and unemployment is rising? Today, when a thousand forints a kilo of bread, how do they have the nerve to write in social law that everyone is primarily responsible for themselves? ! How should a person who is left out of work think if Fidesz only gives a handout for three months, and then, at best, only throws 22 800 forints? Minister and Secretary of State Lords, Ladies! When did you try to make a living out of 22 800 forints? You're bringing home a salary of HUF 3-4-5 million. Meanwhile, Fidesz doubled the price of electricity and increased gas by seven times over average consumption. The Fidesz government tells people to work in the cold. You know, the most indiscriminate thing about this is that you've taken over the state, taken what you can from it. They stuffed their children's pockets, their buddies' pockets; they drained the public property; they excluded 140,000 people from social security; they took the disability pension; they made people runaway. Now they have the nerve to tell you to keep on taxing, and no one needs help from the state. What are you going to do next? To feed people grass? Look, I'm a left-wing man, I've been working three shifts since the Fidesz leaders were studying on George Soros's money. Therefore, as left-wing people, I say that we MSZPs will not allow you to destroy the nation; we will not allow Viktor Orbán to ban solidarity because we are left-wing and patriots. We are thinking in a united nation, and we say that when there is trouble, we need to stick together here in the motherland and across the border. We won't let them turn the city and its villagers against each other. They were teasing against the Roma, inciting the disabled, inciting the gays, inciting the catnip. It's the teachers and students' turn, but we're not gonna let that happen. This bill will be withdrawn as soon as possible, because it will end in tragedy. A caring and chance-creating state is needed, which [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] guarantees everyone's social security. We MSZPs are going to work for this as real left-wingers. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-10-25-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. In response to Mr President's speech before the agenda, we will hear the answer from Deputy Minister, Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2022-10-25-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, First of all, congratulations on your election as party president this weekend. He has been given a truly trying task to bring the Hungarian Socialist Party from 1 percent to more than 5 percent. We'll see how you do it. As far as the relationship between left and solidarity is concerned, I would not judge you, but one of your popular and always accepted sociologists, Zsuzsa Ferge. How did Zsuzsa Ferge talk about your solidarity when Hungary was plagued by a crisis? He literally said about you: in 2008 Hungary was the only crisis that was caused by the state, which did nothing, nothing at all, a matchstick in order for something to happen to the obvious losers of the crisis. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[Eszter Vitalos: How can that be?]] And here you say that the principle of solidarity has been corrupted in recent years, and we deny that, because I will say what we have really tried to do to help everyone, and you will recreate this fabric, while Zsuzsa Ferge said that you have done nothing in this matter. But not only did Zsuzsa Ferge, their own prime minister, say, "And in the meantime, we didn't do anything for four years. Nothing. You can't say anything significant about government action, their own prime minister says, what we can be proud of, other than... bringing government back to the end. Nothing. If we have to account for what we've done in four years, what do we say? However, this was said by their own prime minister. You stand up here to strengthen the social network, but your home sociologist and your prime minister have said that you have not done so, and have even pursued a policy contrary to that. [[10.00]] There's another government, there's another couple that took money from nurses, and the police and the doctors and the teachers and all the civil servants who deal with the most difficult people in the social sphere? Is there another government that took money from pensioners? You did that. Eight percent of their money was taken for everyone in order to meet one of their three-letter favorite organizations, the IMF. The IMF was more important than nurses, pensioners, social workers, doctors, policemen, and so on. You're here to talk about nice words about having solidarity with each other. But why do you always have solidarity with the bankers, especially if they're foreigners, especially if they're from Washington or London or from Brussels? Then you're very fond of your decisions. You were marching in the hunger procession with Gábor Simon, who, as it turns out, had the 200-300 million bank statement in his pocket, and was marching along the hunger procession. I don't doubt your credibility at the moment, because you may actually think what you're saying, but who are you here with, Your Honour? Who were you marching with? In recent years, we have done what we think is the right social policy, and not only we say it, but Ronald Reagan also says that the best social policy is job creation, and the best, complementary measure is wage increases. In general, the government has less influence on wage increases, but it can increase them through the minimum wage. You know, you have raised the minimum wage by a minimum of twenty or a few thousand forints under your government, and we have raised the minimum wage by approximately 130 thousand forints during our administration to make the smallest earners more. You didn't raise your wages for the smallest earners. You took the pension from pensioners, and you didn't help people who needed it the most. Multis and corporates had the guaranteed profit, 6-7 percent. Gyula Horn put it into the law, you kept it, you kept it, you always took it away from the small money. In recent years, I have already told you to what extent we have increased social benefits, but let me repeat that we are increasing from HUF 325 billion to HUF 1139 billion and by another 187 billion next year, from 325 billion to 1326 billion. Increase by HUF 1001 billion! social benefits so that we see the most important social policy in terms of job creation, so that everyone has a job. You took away the money from the families in the third year, you took away the possibility of interest-supported forint loans to get people into foreign exchange loans. They made huge mistakes, which the government was able to repair after 2010, and we can also talk about the municipalities. You have indebted the municipalities with HUF 1300 billion. Nice words, only when they were on the wheel, they did the exact opposite. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-10-25-24	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr Zoltán Komáromi applied for a speech from the DK Group before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-10-25-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, This weekend I attended the National Conference of Health Economic Managers, where nearly 200 economic professionals, hospital and clinic directors and economic directors, managing the institutional system of the sector, discussed how the health care system could remain operational in these difficult times. It wasn't a good mood. Uncertainty and fear ruled the entire event. To ensure that they do not misunderstand, the participants did not fear for their own existence, they were not worried about the sector, the institutions they led and the patients, for those Hungarian people who are increasingly finding it difficult to provide services in publicly funded institutions, because the waiting lists are getting longer and longer, the supply disruptions resulting from the human resources crisis are increasing. In the last two months, I have experienced the same at the national meetings of outpatients, home-patients and sectoral workers, with the exception that they were still attended by the State Secretary responsible for the sector, the Director-General of the OKF, and one of his newly appointed directors. At those events, the sectoral leadership outlined an optimistic vision that the new government line-up was being carried out, and the complex concept of professional policy was promised to the government by October, which will show the way from the crisis, and which none of the government actors have finally tried to bagate or deny. Well, at the EGVE conference, the agenda was different, and the highest-ranking state leader was the Director-General of NEAK, who, by the way, has been inviting these conferences for years, so he came among us as an old acquaintance. In addition to him, he did not consider it important for any government potenta to meet economic professionals responsible for the operation of the profession. What the Director General of NEAK talked about was that the number of oncological screenings decreased by 20 percent in the year before the Covid epidemic, that thousands of complaints about incapacity and long waiting, complaints about the lack of access to professional services for NEAK, that in the last few months only about HUF 12-14 billion of care could not be accessed by the patients, that only in August and September the debt of the institutions had increased to HUF 8 billion, and that 76 percent of this debt had increased to HUF 50 billion, and that 17 percent had been paid by the university, 4 percent by the defence and only 1 percent by the municipal institutions. On Thursday, the government accepted the 98-page government referral, which had been leaked three weeks ago, and according to this, despite the promises of the Secretary of State, they will nationalise even local government-run clinics from 1 January, thus giving up nearly HUF 10 billion of local government contributions. If the government has actually accepted the super-secret submission, which could not be officially seen by the chambers or parliamentary representatives, then a life-threatening situation exists again, but certainly a threat to the functioning of sectoral institutions, that the general medical practices will fall into the hands of the state from the municipal administration, and the professionals working in the specialist clinic, together with those working in urban hospitals, will be the county hospital, and will be able to be assigned to all changing jobs by smuggling them back into a healthcare service that is clearly hated by sectoral workers. I don't want to paint the devil on the wall, but there's a great risk that this could lead to another wave of resignations, retirements, further damage to the sector's labour problems. Klára Dobrev's shadow government will be sitting down in the next few weeks with the employees of the sector, the professional chambers, advocacy organisations and patient organisations, because, unlike government pride, we are really curious about the opinions of professionals and patients working in the sector, because we believe that we can only get out of this spiral with them. The only thing on the cake is that neither the GPs nor the clinics have any information about how they will pay the increased costs of the clinics, because virtually no one has ever told them about it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-10-25-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. In response to Mr President's speech before the agenda, Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, will give him the answer. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2022-10-25-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You began by saying that there are many who are concerned, many who are afraid. Two or three years ago, honourable Member, there were many who were worried, who were afraid, because we lived in the years of the epidemic, and then everyone who was doctors listened to what they said about the epidemic, what they said about the vaccination. You then told people who feared for their own health, for their own lives, for their families, especially for their elderly family members, that there was a human experiment with vaccines in Hungary. He's nodding now that it's a human experiment. [[Dr. Zoltán Komáromi: Yes.]] You said as a doctor that I was arguing that any vaccine is better than the disease. That's what you said about those vaccinations, honourable Member. [[Dr. Zoltán Komáromi: We should continue the quote!]] to protect the health of hundreds of millions of people around the world. He said that he wouldn't talk anyone into these Eastern vaccines, and maybe the disease isn't worse than the Chinese vaccine, you said in 2021 that maybe the disease isn't worse than the Chinese vaccine. [[Dr. Zoltán Komáromi: I didn't say that!]] Literally, Congressman. When people were worried when they were expecting help from the doctors, all you did was talk people out of it and tell them that if they had one of the Eastern vaccines, they would have given it to themselves. [[10.10]] That is quite a responsibility, Your Honour. You nodded here to the eastern vaccines... [[Miklós Soltész to the representatives of DK: He just said it's true! Dr. Zoltán Komáromi: It's not true!]] And think of the situation where someone listened to you, because you're the authentic one, because, say, you're a committed leftist and you're a leftist, so you listened to you and you refused the vaccine, and then you got sick. How do you account for your conscience? [[Kálmán Olga: Oh, my God!]] But let's move on to the health system. Worry and fear. You know, during your administration, they were very worried at the children's hospital in Swabhegy, and not for no reason, because you closed it. They were very worried about the OPNI, very scared, and not for no reason, because you closed it. They were very worried at Szabolcs Street Hospital [[Constant noise from the DK Group. The president's ringing the bell.]] And they were very scared, but not for no reason, because you locked him up. They were very concerned, especially with families, who had a harder time delivering their children in connection with Schöpf-Merei Hospital, that if the older brother was born there, could the younger brother have been born there if it was harder to give birth. [[Zsolt Gréczy: How many places have you closed the obstetrics?]] And they weren't worried for no reason because you locked him up. They're closed, Your Honour, all of them. You may be concerned, you may say such words, but you are the one who closed the hospitals. [[Kálmán Olga: How many classes have closed?]] You have built 16,000 active beds, you have dismissed 6,000 medical workers, honourable Member. [[Dr. Zoltán Komáromi: We have not dismissed anyone!]] They were also very concerned, and the patients were even more concerned at the time, and you had only one reform proposal for health care. Okay, two. [[Dr. Zoltán Komáromi: Three! He'll show you three fingers held up.]] One is privatisation, the other is visitation fees. Then you will tell us what was the third, honourable Member. [[Zsolt Gréczy intervenes.]] That's what's left of people: privatisation and visitation fees. When it came to taking money, what did your health minister, Lajos Molnár, say? You are, aren't you, Shadow Minister of Health, he was Minister of Health, so you're colleagues. After the formation of the second Gyurcsány government, it became apparent that there was no money [[Kálmán Olga: And now there's money?]] It is therefore necessary to decide on austerity and the greatest withdrawal affected health care. Your health minister brought me the information about your government meeting and told me that the biggest money was taken from health care. You, honourable Member. You said that it wasn't enough, because Imre László, the mayor of NewBuda, mentioned earlier, said that half of the hospitals would be enough. [[Kálmán Olga: Where is the super hospital?]] because about 45 percent can be closed, and you said that even less would probably be enough in Hungary. [[Zsolt Gréczy: What about the Super Hospital in NewBuda?]] You're talking about professional dialogue. Well, they fought the Chamber all along! We're the ones who restored him to a mandatory bar membership because you were trying to screw with the bar where it was worth it. Don't talk about how much dialogue you've had. They tried to weaken by legal means those who represented the profession during their own government, honourable Member. They'd rather fight them than cooperate. Health expenses. I quoted your Minister of Health as to how these expenses were reduced. We've increased these. [[Zsolt Gréczy: How much has it increased compared to the first Orbán government?]] From HUF 1198 bn to HUF 2669 bn in order to really cover healthcare. You know, the funding of general doctors has increased from HUF 79 billion to HUF 245 billion. Taking an average GP, taking an average-size practice [[Zsolt Gréczy: Where are the general practitioners?]] During your administration, it was 867 thousand forints, now rising to 2 million 900 thousand forints, honourable Member. Indeed, there is a change in health care, a change of model, in which, indeed, the county hospital director, as you said, has an important role to play. He's as small as the Minister of Health in the county, because he's inpatient care, outpatient care. [[Kálmán Olga: There is no doctor!]] and he has the professional supervision of the basic care to do so in a coordinated manner within the county, so that a professional leader can bring out the best possible supply standards from these growing sources in all counties and in the capital. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-10-25-28	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister, Secretary of State. Mr Imre Vejkey has applied for a speech from the KDNP Group before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-10-25-29	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Europe is now under threat from deep-flying economy, demographic disaster and food crisis. The consequences of the Ukrainian war are devastating, not only for the warring parties, but also to the detriment of Europe and the world as a whole. The chaos around the war in Ukraine and the supply chains has skyrocketed food prices on the world market from wheat to barley to sunflowers last year. It is not surprising that one of the most important issues that concerns everyone is that they will end up with a global famine. Since May, prices have started to decline, but the rise in energy prices is preventing further food prices from falling. Otherwise, the fall in prices does not mean that the food crisis has ended, since the factors that led to the price increase remain unchanged today. Energy has become a full political and economic crisis because everything is connected. Ladies and Gentlemen, They should know that while high oil prices increase transport costs, the natural gas, which is the source of fertilizer production, increases and even endangers its production. This has the consequence that there is already a shortage of key nutrients in crops, or nitrogen fertilizer, and this shortage will only increase. Ladies and Gentlemen, Russia is the world's leading exporter of nitrogen fertilizer and second in the exports of phosphorus and potassium fertilizer. Russian allied Belarus, also facing western sanctions, is also a major fertiliser producer and the two countries together account for more than 40% of the global exports of important potassium to plants. After the sixth month of the Russian-Ukrainian war, there was a shortage of fertilizers all over the world, because the price of it was so high that some farmers could no longer afford it. The drastic rise in the price of fertilizer puts food exporting countries in an even more difficult position, which will therefore face an increased challenge of reboosting the yield, and if there is no solution to this problem, the affordability crisis will become a crisis of food shortages for the future. Ladies and Gentlemen, Farmers use fertilizer to increase yields, but due to the shortage, the price will be persistently high. In this case, as a result of the declining yield, the harvest will also decrease, which will only exacerbate the food crisis. Liberated energy prices can also knock down high energy-intensive industries in Europe. In addition to fertiliser production, the steel industry, the aluminium industry and the sugar industry are also in crisis, and the list is far from complete, ladies and gentlemen. The impact of the energy crisis on agriculture therefore has an insurmountable impact. Brussels is ignoring all of this. He is constantly thinking about new sanctions and embargoed packages. The bitter experience of the past eight months has shown that sanctions not only force Russia to abandon its war goals, but they are only making the energy crisis and the food crisis which has already escalated into global size even more severe. António Guterres, Secretary-General of the United Nations, stated that the impact of war on food security, energy and finance is systemic, threatening unprecedented hunger and poverty, leaving behind social and economic chaos. The prolonged war and the energy crisis can lead to another global economic crisis, and therefore, in this critical international situation, the most important task of the Hungarian government remains to preserve Hungary's peace and security and to ensure the country's energy supply. As Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said last week, enough of the failed sanctions in Brussels. Peace be done with the Russian-Ukrainian war. This is in the interests of Hungary, Europe and the whole world. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-10-25-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to the speaker's speech before the agenda will be from Deputy Minister, Secretary of State, Sándor Farkas. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-10-25-31	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, In recent times, agriculture and the food industry across Europe have faced a number of serious challenges, and these two sectors have had to endure in exceptional circumstances. It is enough to think about high feed prices, fertiliser, pesticides and energy prices or even labour shortages. This situation is aggravated by the Russian-Ukrainian war, the failed sanctions in Brussels and, not least, this year's drought. Sanctions have turned a local war into a global economic war, the global economy is threatened by a decline, the European economy is threatened by a crackdown. Hungary has always dealt with economic sanctions with reservations, and we still do not accept sanctions that would directly adversely affect Hungary. [[10.20]] We must protect Hungarian families and also protect jobs against the energy prices of sanctions. We see that food security challenges have been seen in many parts of the world for decades. This is why it is an outstanding result that the food supply of the population in Hungary is guaranteed, and the vast majority of the basic foods, besides domestic consumption, also form a significant export commodity fund every year. As a result of this extraordinary year, our country is self-sufficient for most food categories. Agriculture engages in energy intensive production, with significant consumption of fuel, electricity and gas, and is therefore seriously affected by a drastic increase in energy prices. In addition to the success of the current crops and autumn works, the production costs of 2023 could also be significantly affected. Energy and input prices have multiplied in the last year and a half, under such conditions even increased crop prices do not provide a guarantee to crop growers. The price consolidation of energy prices, in particular gas and electricity, is necessary to ensure that the activities of producers and inputs producers are sustainable. Within the input materials, specific consideration should be given to the situation of the fertilizer that you have mentioned. Fertiliser production is a highly gas-intensive process. As a result of the unprecedented increase in gas prices, in 2022 several European fertiliser plants temporarily paused and stopped production. Europe is currently dependent on fertiliser suppliers in other regions, where energy is cheaper, so these suppliers can absorb the benefits of high fertiliser prices. Our traditional suppliers, Russia, Belarus and Ukraine, are excluded from transport due to sanctions and war. European and domestic production needs to be restarted in order to reduce market pressure, and this requires in particular the consolidation of European gas prices. In the current situation, the government will contribute by all means available to address serious difficulties and increase the financial and production security of farmers, thereby strengthening food safety. I would just like to highlight a number of supported measures that will not be fully detailed. Now, in this month, area payments have started with an increase in the amount that will help the farming community to start the autumn work. This meant some HUF 322 billion in payments so far, which was HUF 23 billion more than in the previous year. We have also introduced a targeted measure to facilitate the financing of loans, which means that agricultural enterprises can be loaned investment and working capital, as well as the overdraft scheme in the agricultural Széchenyi Széchenyi., and not least the crop production and livestock farms affected by drought can benefit from this loan, with an interest rate of approximately 3 per cent. The government will continue to make every effort to ensure that food prices remain accessible to the general public. We hope that agriculture and the food industry will continue to develop in the coming years, despite the challenges, with the necessary development resources available either in technology or in support of specific production tools and development. I ask the honourable Member to accept my reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-25-32	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister, Secretary of State. Dear House, Fellow Members! Member Attila Stojka has applied for a speech from the Fidesz Group before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-10-25-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Combating poverty, social exclusion and discrimination is a constant fight against all XXI. For a state of law or political community of the century. The European Union planned to strengthen the inclusive nature and cohesion of European society in 2010 as a solution to this. As we read in the European Parliament's relevant publication, one of the major innovations of the Europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth adopted in 2010 was the new EU target, which meant combating poverty and social exclusion, reducing the proportion of people living below the poverty thresholds in the Member States by 25% and leading more than 20 million people out of poverty. It has failed to achieve the target, despite the fact that some Member States have also met Hungary, which has reduced the proportion of people living in poverty by nearly one million instead of the 450 000 people committed to it. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] contributing to achieving the EU target, but overall, it has failed to deliver 20 million people out of poverty. The new EU target of 2021 is compared to 15 million people, which will have to be reached by the EU Member States by 2030. [[Noise.]] It is interesting to experience that the target will be changed, but not the instruments. But let us see how the system of fighting left-wing and conservative poverty is different. You think in aid, we believe in work. Your social policy is not intended to lead you out of poverty, but to maintain vulnerability. There is nothing more evidence of this than the economic, social and moral crisis experienced in the period before 2010. You can see that they don't learn from the past. Now that the EU has caused an energy crisis as a series of bad decisions and people across Europe are in a difficult situation, the left will recreate the sheet music used before 2010. The situation at that time was clear, there was no reduction in the number of people living in poverty, but rather an increase. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Now. You're right.]] Remember, just one example: no action has been taken against the drastic increase in foreign exchange loans. [[Intercoms from DK's ranks.]] We know the consequences. [[Gergely Harvesto keeps interrupting.]] Just as the current EU sanctions policy doesn't work, and it hurts us more than the one you wanted to aim at. [[Noise, interruptions from DK's ranks, including Gergely Arató: Shame on you! The president's ringing the bell.]] Let us make it clear, fellow Members, that your proposals would still not work and would not work now. Your ideas on the fight against poverty and what they want to do will keep people in poverty. Although they may sound popular, it would not result in the eradication of real poverty. [[Gergely Harvester: You've had 12 years!]] So the thing is, there's no way to change it with pretense measures. But let's see what the national conservative government has done. Instead of helping people, he gave people jobs. He directed people from passive care to active life. The results are visible, even in the EU administration. We can safely say that the Hungarian model works. [[Defiance in DK's ranks.]] We reduced the number of people living in poverty by one million [[There are constant interruptions from DK's ranks.]] 50 percent more people work in Hungary among the Roma than ever since the change of regime. At the same time, it should be noted that these results could only be achieved if programmes and measures were launched in a coordinated manner. What you are proposing every day to help disadvantaged people, honourable left-wing Members, have already tried to apply them, it has been proven that they have not been a real help, but only a whiff. And if you really want to support the fight against poverty, talk to the EU representatives of your parties to work not to stop Hungarian development resources, but to promote early access. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-25-34	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer will be heard from Deputy Secretary Bence Rétvári. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-10-25-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In the last ten years, thanks to God, the Hungarians had a time when everyone could move forward: taxes fell, jobs increased, wages and minimum wage finally increased, and family support for home creation. [[10.30]] Almost never was such a positive plan for the future that everyone could create a new home for themselves. We also survived the epidemic, with a record economic growth of 7.1 percent in the year after the outbreak, which was higher than anywhere in Europe, and higher than ever in Hungary. And that's when the war and the sanctions following the war in Brussels, the first, second, third, and the eighth struck, and this created a crisis from a local war to a continent-wide crisis. We hoped that European politicians would see that the crisis should not be stepped up, but reduced, but that we had no confidence in it. We also see that, since the left has received its campaign grants from abroad, they also represent the position of foreigners, and they are political in the bondage of foreign money, so they say what is expected of them in relation to sanctions that are the most dangerous to the European middle class. If there is a group in the world that will be the biggest victim of this sanctions policy, the European middle class will be the European industry and the European middle class. Unfortunately, now European politicians are making up trouble, not talking about peace, but about war and new sanctions, although they can see that sanctions have not stopped Russia, but they can feel that Europe has been brought to its knees every day. What did the left-wing shadow minister, Klára Dobrev, say? We will not back down, we will vote in favour of the strictest sanctions. So they handed over a blank cheque, which they put in front of them, and it's sanctioned, and they vote for it without even thinking about it. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Anytime against war criminals!]] Benedek Jávor, Budapest emissary in Brussels:. This will hurt, we will pay for the learning money, but we will support the sanctions. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: They're killing children!]] That's what Guy Verhofstadt, a leader of the liberals, said that we will naturally suffer. [[Gergely Harvesto: You're protecting child killers! Shame on you.]] What did Péter Márki-Zay, the most recent candidate for Prime Minister on the left, say? I don't see a better opportunity than to see the sanctions that do work anyway... He supported the sanctions, and he said they worked. Gergely Christmas, mayor of Budapest, candidate for Prime Minister: I am glad that the sanction package has been established, and Hungary has finally not been able to prevent sanctions. He feared that the Hungarian government would prevent sanctions, but was glad that he could not prevent sanctions. That's what Gergely Christmas himself said. This is what Hungarian politicians do when they are trapped in foreign support. This is what we see in other countries of Europe. In Denmark, people are advised to take shorter showers and not to use their dryers. [[Gergely Harvestó: We can't afford hot water!]] In France, washing machines, dishwashers and mobile phones are requested not to be charged during peak hours between 5:30 and 8:00 p.m. [[Gergely Harvestó: We don't heat up schools! It's cold in schools! Is that okay?]] In Austria, the Austrian trade union association launched a series of demonstrations in October this year due to rising energy costs. In Belgium, in Brussels, tens of thousands went on the streets to combat the livelihood crisis, to demonstrate and to demand immediate measures from the government and to plan a general strike in Belgium by November. [[Intercoms from opposition lines.]] In France, on October 16th, tens of thousands entered the street in Paris because of the rising prices. [[Gergely Arató: What was in Budapest?]] [[Intercoms from opposition lines.]] In France, on October 16th, tens of thousands entered the street in Paris because of the rising prices. (Gergely Arató: What was in Budapest?) In Germany, tens of thousands also protested because of the debt crisis, in Berlin, Düsseldorf, Hannover, Stuttgart, Dresden, Frankfurt, and demanded higher premiums. (Intercoms from opposition lines.) In Hungary, the highest share of Hungarian household allowances is the average consumption of HUF 181 thousand. [[Noise.]] What's the total this year? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We leave more than HUF 1000 billion for families or provide additional benefits, up to 13 months' pension, as an inflation pension supplement [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Get back in the chair.]] , as a pension premium, as a tax exemption for young people under the age of 25, but we help with a gas stop, a food stop, a mortgage moratorium, a interest stop, which we have extended to small and medium-sized enterprises, and we also try to help Hungarian people with wage increases. We regret that the Hungarian left is not a partner in this, he does not vote for them here in Parliament, he is politicalising against Hungary in Brussels, and he supports the retention of our own resources in Brussels, and unfortunately, sanctions continue to be supported, which not only in Hungary but in all countries of Europe, especially those with a difficult fate. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-10-25-36	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Take your seats, check that your card has been properly placed in the voting machines. We will continue our work with decisions. It follows from the publication of the T/1201 Convention between Hungary and the Principality of Andorra on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion and evasion in the field of income taxes. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1201. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill with 166 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. We now come to the conclusion of the Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway between the Government of the Republic of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway on the termination of the Agreement on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments T/1204. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1204. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 155 votes in favour, 9 votes against and no abstentions. It follows a series of amendments to the Single Drug Convention in New York, published by Decree-Law No 4 of 1965, dated 30 March 1961, T/1205. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/1205. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 168 votes in favour, without voting against or abstaining. Report on the adoption of the report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates 2021. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/542. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 118 votes in favour, 36 votes against and 14 abstentions. Next up is our joint case on the establishment of the Foundation for Animal Protection T/1203. Final vote of bill No 1. However, in the light of a request for action, we must also decide to maintain a proposal for an amendment. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the Group of Dialogue proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 was tabled by Rebekah Szabó. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 42 votes in favour, 118 votes against and 8 abstentions. [[10.40]] Ladies and gentlemen, As the Parliament did not maintain a proposal for an amendment, nor did the amendment summarised for the proposal, we decided on the text of the bill submitted in the final vote. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1203. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 141 votes in favour, 4 votes against and 22 abstentions. The Statute of the Universal Postal Association, the Ninth, Tenth and Tenth Pot Protocol, the amendment and the Final Protocol to the Universal Postal Convention of the Universal Postal Association signed at the 2012 Doha Convention, the amendment and the Final Protocol signed at the 2016 Istanbul Congress, the amendment and the Final Protocol signed at the 2018 Addis Ababa Convention, the amendment signed at the 2019 Geneva Convention and the Second Additional Protocol, and the T/1306 on the announcement of the Final Protocol signed at the 2021 Abidjan Convention. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/1306/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/1306/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 168 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1306/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 167 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows from the publication of the T/1206 of the amendment to the Convention on Psychotropic Substances, which was published by Decree-Law No 25 of 1979, signed in Vienna on 21 February 1971. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. In addition, T/1206/6 provides a summary report on the legislative committee's proposal for amendment. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/1206/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 167 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1206/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 168 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows now that the T/1207 of the United Nations Convention on the Publication of Amendments to the Convention against the illicit marketing of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances published by Law L of 1998 on 20 de-cember 1988 in Vienna is now being published. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/207/5 of the Legislative Committee's proposal to amend the text, and T/1207/6 of its report. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/1207/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 167 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/207/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 167 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Next up is the 2013 XXXVII on certain rules for international administrative cooperation on tax and other public burdens. T/1305. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/1305. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill with 149 votes in favour, no votes against, with 19 abstentions. It follows now that H/1314 on the amendment of the heading of the central budget in relation to the Integrity Authority. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the decision and the final vote. H/1314/5 and H/1314/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the Legislative Committee H/1314/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 135 votes in favour, 13 votes against and 16 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/1314/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 136 votes in favour, 13 votes against and 15 abstentions. Dear Parliament, In line with our agreed agenda, decisions are now being taken to accept the responses to the interpellations made yesterday. Member Gergely Arató, representative of DK, I/1624. No response was accepted. I'll ask the Parliament to accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 117 votes in favour, 50 votes against and one abstention. Representative Zoltán Vajda, MSZP representative, I/1310. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 117 votes in favour, 50 votes against and one abstention. Congresswoman Éva Sebők, representative of Momentum, I/1602. No response was accepted. I respectfully ask the Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 117 votes in favour, 50 votes against and one abstention. [[10.50]] Congressman Róbert Dudás, representative of Jobbik, I/1604. No response was accepted. I respectfully ask the Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 117 votes in favour, 49 votes against and one abstention. Ms Rebecca Szabó, representative of the Dialogue, Ms I/1653. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 117 votes in favour, 50 votes against and one abstention. Mr. President Novak, representative of Mi Hazan, representative of I/1654. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 116 votes in favour, 16 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Noise. Ancient Novak: Anti-Communist proposal!]] Congressman Antal Csárdi, LMP representative, I/1649. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 117 votes in favour, 47 votes against and one abstention. Representative László Varju, representative of DK, representative of I/1627. No response was accepted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the response to the interpellation by 117 votes in favour, 49 votes against and one abstention. Ladies and gentlemen, We've reached the end of the decisions. We're taking a two-minute technical break. [[Several Members leave the Chamber.]] (Recess: 10.52-10.55) President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Attila Gelencsér and Sándor Berki)
u2022-10-25-37	Dear Parliament, The 2011 CXII on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information in order to reach agreement with the European Commission follows up. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Government referral T/1616. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. [[Noise.]] I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert State Secretary, Deputy Minister, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda, who will say his speech here on the stand, if my fellow Members will ensure that they leave the room and speak outside so that the expoe can be spoken. In the meantime, I'm asking you not to start. [[It's constant noise.]] We are giving my fellow Members the opportunity to leave quietly, peacefully and quietly. [[Turning to Gergely Arató, who talked standing up,]] I will also give this opportunity to Mr Harvester. I'll be very happy. [[Gergely Arató: I wouldn't go out, but the congressman wanted to go out. Some additional representatives are leaving the opposition benches.]] Congressman, it's just that your voice is coming through so much that a shot-in bull is a rookie compared to this. Deputy Secretary, you have the floor.
u2022-10-25-38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The aim of the bill before us is that the 2011 CXII on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information. In other words, the law amends the provisions of the so-called info law relating to freedom of information in order to ensure that freedom of information prevails as much as possible. First of all, I would like to point out that the Government of Hungary is paying particular attention to ensuring freedom of information and its effectiveness. The basis for freedom of information is LXIII of 1992 on the former Constitution and on the protection of personal data and on the publicity of data of general interest. It was created by law, which was further broadened by the Fundamental Law and the info law, ensuring the fundamental constitutional function of freedom of information. The constitutional function of freedom of information, as the Constitutional Court has already stated in its early decisions, is to guarantee the democratic functioning of the state and, more broadly, the transparency of public affairs through the availability of data of general interest. Article VI of the Fundamental Law According to Article 4 (3) of the Act, everyone has the right to know and disseminate data of general interest, which the Parliament has ensured in the light of the Fundamental Law by adopting the info law. In accordance with the relevant constitutional framework, the info law allows data to be made available on the basis of a need to do so, and also requires data to be made available in a pro-active manner, i.e. without a specific request, through the so-called publication lists. In addition, as the Constitutional Court has repeatedly pointed out, in order to ensure freedom of information as a fundamental right, the legislator should not only be able to understand the need, but also provide a substantive and effective judicial remedy in relation to it, which allows freedom of information to be enforced and exercised in practice. (The President's seat is István Jakab, Vice-President of the Parliament.) It should be noted that the legislator has already fully complied with the above-mentioned requirements within the framework of the info law, and in addition to that, not only as a judge, but also as a basis for Article VI of the Fundamental Law. In accordance with Article 4 (4), the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information also provided effective legal protection for data applicants. [[11.00]] Dear House, The aim of the bill before us is, therefore, to broaden and make more effective the existing, very wide-ranging disclosure of data by the government, which the bill proposes to complement and clarify the existing system of info law in two fundamental areas to achieve this goal. On the one hand, the info law would provide, under its own subtitle, the rules applicable in the form of lex specialities on lawsuits that may be initiated in connection with the acquisition of data of general interest, as well as the provisions applicable to the effective and rapid conduct of such proceedings, and would also establish, in the framework of the aforementioned proactive data disclosure, the central information public data register, which would contain, free of charge, the management data of bodies carrying out public tasks for publication. Dear Parliament, As I have already mentioned, it is a guarantee that the right to know and disseminate data of general interest can be invoked by the requesting court in the event of a possible refusal of the data request. Although these lawsuits are already out of order under the provisions of the info law in force, the legislator has prioritized the swift conduct of these lawsuits, the Government of Hungary has undertaken, in negotiations with the European Commission, not only to provide extraordinarily, but also to adopt provisions to strengthen the speedy and effective conduct of these lawsuits as soon as possible. Thus, the Government proposes that cases relating to freedom of information should be based on the specific rules on press adjustment, which are currently applied in the Civil Procedure Act, which already provides for very short deadlines to close these proceedings as soon as possible. The bill will therefore, if it is adopted, impose strict deadlines such as press correction lawsuits on the conduct of lawsuits related to the rejection of data requests, thus facilitating the protection of the rights of data seekers and the full application of the freedom of information. The speeding up of proceedings would, inter alia, create specific and short time-limits for the submission of a written defence, the setting of a trial, the negotiating interval, and the appeal and review. In order to ensure that the lawsuits relating to freedom of information are closed as quickly as possible, in addition to the above, counterclaims, suspension and intervention based on the agreement of the parties would only be possible with the exceptions laid down in the info law, in order to comply with the rules of the info law in force. The latter exceptions aim to ensure that the situation of data applicants does not become less favourable. Thus, taking into account the fact that the Information Act allows the application for a certificate to be submitted in the event of failure to comply with the 30-day period for bringing an action, and allows the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information to intervene in order to win the applicant's case and, in the case of access to classified information, it would be necessary to carry out the confidentiality procedure and, in order to do so, to suspend the case, these exceptions would continue to be maintained in the draft law. The effectiveness of the lawsuits that may be brought in the context of a demand for public information will also be increased by the element of the bill that a written counterclaim could be submitted within a short period of time, and the court would also call on the parties to bring with them all the documents and other means of evidence relating to the case for the trial, so that the substantive hearing could be held and retained immediately after the trial. Furthermore, according to the bill, in so far as the defendant acting in proceedings does not submit a written counterclaim, and does not appear at the hearing, and therefore does not present a defence orally, the court considers the action to be uncontroversial, and where there is no place for the termination of the action under the general rules of civil procedure, the defendant shall be detained in accordance with the applicant's request. In practice, this means that the failure of the data controller to file a claim for data could not be slowed down, and even the possible default of the defendant should be assessed for the benefit of the data seeker. The swift conduct of proceedings would also be guaranteed by the amendment under which the court would enter its judgment in writing within 15 days of its decision and publication. The bill would also speed up the proceedings, last but not least, by requiring the court of second instance to assess the appeal no later than 15 days after the receipt of the documents, while this deadline would be set 60 days in the case of the Curia in the case of the review procedure. Dear Parliament, Another equally important element of the bill, which also provides freedom of information, is that which would create an electronic interface for the Central Information Public Data Register within the framework of pro-active freedom of information. The e-surface would be available free of charge to anyone, and the bodies obliged to publish it would publish their basic management data as defined in the bill in a manner accessible for five years and at least two months update. According to the bill, the scope of those obliged to publish would cover almost all of the budgetary bodies under the Government's governance or supervision under the Public Finance Act and local and ethnic authorities. On the surface, there would be publication of grants from EU or domestic sources exceeding HUF 5 million, details of payments for supply, works, ordering services, sale of assets, recovery of property, transfer of property or property, and concession contracts, as well as payments for the performance of non-core tasks. The data should also include, inter alia, the names of the contracting parties or, in the case of aid, the beneficiaries, the type and subject-matter of the contract or aid, as well as the tax number of the person, the consideration of the contract, the subject-matter of the aid and the amount paid, the consideration. In the case of public procurement, the identification of the procurement procedure should also be indicated, making it possible to identify the so-called electronic procurement system, the so-called "ECR' portal, in order to facilitate the direct access of the relevant documents. According to the provisions on the surface, the data should be published continuously on the surface, but not later than 28 February 2023, and by this deadline the government would provide details of the connection to and uploading of the surface. Dear Parliament, As I have repeatedly mentioned in my speech, the aim of the bill is to adopt measures aimed at ensuring the effective functioning of freedom of information, thereby increasing transparency and the citizens' confidence in the functioning of public bodies at both central and local levels. I urge you to support the adoption of the bill in order to achieve the above objectives. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-25-39	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Lajos Mészáros, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-10-25-40	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The clear aim of Fidesz is to agree with the European Commission as soon as possible. The bill before us is CXII of 2011 on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information in order to reach agreement with the European Commission. amends the law. [[11.10]] One of the objectives of the proposal is to speed up the conduct of lawsuits in the context of a demand for information of general interest and to make amendments aimed at increasing its effectiveness. The amendment therefore sets close deadlines for, inter alia, the submission of an defence, the setting of a hearing, the negotiating interval and the appeal and the review. The amendment would also exclude certain means of litigation for the swift and swift conduct of the case, so that there would be no grounds for any change in the form of proof, counterclaims, conciliation, suspension, court order, application, action and action. The amendment states that, if the defendant does not submit a counterclaim and does not appear or present it at the hearing, the court considers the action to be uncontroversial, closes the hearing and, if there is no place for termination, stays the defendant. It is proposed that the amendments would not affect the ongoing lawsuits and should be applied in the proceedings initiated after the entry into force of the law. Another important innovation in the proposal is the creation of a central information public data register that is publicly available and accessible to anyone. The register would include the most important management data of budgetary bodies and local and national authorities, in particular those of the budget grants, public procurements, contracts and payments that they provide from domestic or EU sources, amounting to HUF 5 million, which would be published every two months on this interface. These data would be available for five years. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your attention and ask that you support this proposal on the basis of what has been presented. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-10-25-41	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2022-10-25-42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, There is a bill before us, which already states in its title that the government did not really intend to change these cases, nor did it have any original intention of making these lawsuits for certain data of general interest better or faster, and that the government is doing this in total to bring them here to meet the conditions set by Brussels, and that is why certain funds from Brussels should come as soon as possible. There are a lot of these laws ahead of us, and we've said the same opinion about a lot of things that I'm about to say. Of course, we know that the government's aim is not to make it work better in one area of the country, or to solve problems in any case, but to make sure that the money in Brussels comes, so that it can be stolen in the same way as it has been stolen in the last 12 years. So let's not be wrong: the framework is the same now. If we go into the specific proposal, there are two aspects of this: on the one hand, it proposes how to speed up requests for data in the public interest and, on the other hand, it proposes a public database. There are basic problems with both of them. First of all, in connection with the lawsuits, the government sits on the horse backwards. We are talking about the fact that the Secretary of State was talking about how my fellow Member of the Fidesz spoke about how good it would be, that the lawsuits would last for a shorter time. Instead of talking about it, and suggesting how it could be achieved, that there should be no lawsuits, because every public institution itself, any institution, authority, office, government institution and anyone who operates from taxpayers' forints will report the basic data on their own, or if there is a request, it will respond to these requests on its own. So there is no need for lawsuits, so there is therefore no need to speed up the lawsuits and how we will speed up the lawsuits. So we are sitting on the horse completely backwards, because the problem is not that the lawsuits are long, the problem is that there are lawsuits at all, that citizens, journalists, investigative experts or even fellow opposition Members are forced to go into long lawsuits because the agencies, authorities, administrations and other reporting agents you manage do not provide data or provide data on request. But it's worse than that, because hundreds of tricks are trying to stop the citizen from getting information. I'll tell you what kind of tricks we've been through. Of course, each office has tried to take advantage of the two times 45 days, and on the last day it gave an answer to the interested and data seeker that he is not the data controller, but of course he doesn't tell whom to turn to in the public administration for those data. It was regular that, if he had received the data at all, he did not receive the data he asked for, not in such a way, nor in relation to it. And if what happened, in most cases, was that we ourselves, DK representatives, were forced to sue, then they regularly referred to business secrets, regularly classified documents as pre-decision material, which we asked for or, as it is, were encrypted. So let's face it, there were thousands of tricks in the government and government agencies to get no data from the data seeker. We also have concrete experiences, let me tell you about last week's case. On behalf of DK, I personally requested the specific contracts and bills of the state events of 20 August last year, for which the government spent taxpayers' money, whether the taxiing Turul is a well spent forint. The company that organized this, obviously on government orders, didn't issue it, had to sue, won it in the first degree, won it in second degree. Do you think he published it after that? No! Now, the thing is, he's turning to the Mansion, he's even playing this trick, he's trying to get a review request to stop the data from being transferred. But I also know of different actors involved in the process during Covid's time of acquisition of vaccines or public procurement of masks, so they were throwing data requests among themselves, saying that they were not the data controllers and pointing out to another state actor, hoping that the initiative would obviously die. To date, it is not a hundred percent who has taken on what role and therefore data request is impossible. The proposal is not about what is, by the way, the main problem of this whole system is that the implementation of the final judicial judgments that will be delivered is also in question. At present, it is burdened with ordinary enforcement procedures that, if such a situation arises, and a data seeker is finally sued, but the implementing rules are not designed to do so, this thing also works moaningly. But, of course, the government does not care about this, it is not in its interest that the lawsuits for data of general interest, which the government regularly loses, are then implemented. So, the point is, in summary, this is part of the proposal that we approach or approach this issue completely and completely. In fact, we should talk here, we should propose and discuss how there will be no lawsuits, how and how data will be published nicely, all right, according to the citizens' request, the individual state offices, but this is not the case in this proposal. On the other hand, we are talking about a public data base. There are also serious problems with the public data base proposal. There is a problem from the point of view that this bill is trying to sell this as a magical super storage site, where all the data will be found by the interested parties. However, the text does not reveal this, but the opposite. On the one hand, we know that they are already on many websites, true, very hidden, very hard to find, certain basic data, typically related to farming. Try to see where Parliament's website can find, for example, those relating to Parliament! It's a really trying task, it's awfully back there, it's well hidden, and under the headings, it takes a lot of human effort to find it. But there are, the only problem is that these data typically do not help citizens who claim data, as they typically do not contain detailed data, cumulative data, averages, annual aggregation, and types of data that do not serve exactly what the citizen is curious about. [[11.20]] On the other hand, I don't know, you know, the distributor knows that there is a public data base right now, called kozadattar.hu, there is a legal requirement that public agencies, public authorities and all kinds of public actors should provide certain data; go up, see, more than 3,000 actors, almost 4,000 players upload some data, perhaps more than 200 thousand data sets. It works exactly as the public data repository that you are proposing and producing will work, in English: everything is poured into one hat and on the sole of a man who can find anything in it, any data he requires or reads there he can silabize and learn from the search engine. It is quite obvious that this kind of bulk database does not make sense, it is not meant for you, it is not meant for anyone to get meaningful data from it, but for the purpose of checking that you have done something in this area, so that you can tell Brussels how well it will be done, in case Brussels believes it, and then the money that you are looking forward to is coming. It is a very small technical detail that, moreover, the definition is... that if we look at which institutions will be subject to this particular public data base, then it is not the same, it is not the same circle that the info law applies to, so in Hungarian, according to the info law, we have to give data to certain agencies and authorities, but these are the ones that do not have to submit their data to this repository. But it's just foam on the cake, really, because that's not the main problem. Let me tell you here, of course, we are living with the suspicion lawsuit that this repository and the necessary IT development, as well as website design and similar nuances, which the government has done in the past 12 years in relation to such IT purchases, will, of course, be given to companies close to Fidesz and close to the oligarchs of Fidesz. I swear to you that in a few months we will interpell, we will ask you a question, because by then we will find out these particular acquisitions, and we will again be talking about the fact that the government has spent billions completely unnecessarily, in fact, not solving the problem, actually creating something, but it doesn't work, not in the way, but it has been able to give the companies and IT investors close to it a good assignment again. To sum up, this whole bill, in addition to the fact that its framework itself is a liar, does not provide any solution to the problem it would address, in any way, any part of it is not good for this area to clear up or work better, and therefore DK cannot support or support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-10-25-43	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-10-25-44	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The aim of the bill is to reach agreement with the European Commission on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information CXII of 2011. Amendment of law in two respects. One aspect of the amendment is to speed up and improve the conduct of lawsuits that can be brought in connection with the need for public information. The other aspect of the amendment is the establishment of a central information public data register by publishing, every two months, specific management data of budgetary bodies and local and national authorities so that they are available to anyone for at least five years. It also shows that the points made by our fellow Member László Sebian-Petrovszki are unfounded, which are covered by this amendment. The Secretary of State Répássy Róbert, who spoke before me by the Government, has already explained in detail the content of both amendments. I fully agree with what he has said, and I do not wish to repeat it. Ladies and Gentlemen, The KDNP parliamentary faction supports T/1616. I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-25-45	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Szabó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2022-10-25-46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, For more than a year now, the Hungarian government has been fighting vehemently with the European Commission to bring the development resources for Hungary to Hungary. I believe that this is not only in the interest of the government, but also of all opposition parties and, of course, of the Hungarian people. After the initial vehement negotiations, after the establishment of the new government, negotiations with the European Commission continued in a much nicer, more diplomatic tone; it is certainly no wonder that the harsh global economy and energy environment justified the government. The Prime Minister even appointed a new minister in the name of Tibor Navracsics to continue the negotiations with more or less success. We trust that, in any case, the government will have more success with the Minister, as I say once again that is in the interests of the Hungarian people. Obviously, many questions have been raised by the European Commission as to why EU subsidies are not coming to Hungary, so it has initiated legislative amendments to the Hungarian Government, and the Hungarian Government has obviously made several amendments to this as a reaction. Well, I agree with my fellow Member, Sebian-Petrovsk, that we should not speed up these lawsuits if we were to have adequate data provision, and then these lawsuits would not make much sense. Obviously, the rapporteur has also said what these regulations are for, and I do not wish to say it again. Obviously, the other substantial part of this amendment is the central information public data register, which is also mentioned, which provides for an obligation for budgetary bodies, municipalities and local minority authorities. Well, obviously this will be a central repository with a two-month update, where, for example, EU grants, supplies, association grants will have to be displayed for five years, and I could still list them. We do not yet see clearly how the operation of this interface will work, obviously this will be developed and presented to us later by the government. Well, we're confident that there will be real progress in this from the previous period. It can be said that the proposal reopens questions about data of general interest in a somewhat incomprehensible way, despite the fact that a bill has already been tabled by the government in this regard. In principle, although there is no need to speed up legal proceedings in relation to data of general interest, the legislation is, in fact, in the right direction, and the central public information register also makes it possible to facilitate central searchability. The Hungarian economy and the Hungarian forint's very bad international perception are due to the government's failed economic and foreign policy. We strongly believe that it is the government's responsibility to conclude the agreement, to conclude this agreement with the European Commission as soon as possible, and to bring EU funds to Hungary, so that the MSZP will take a stand in the final vote on this issue. Thank you.
u2022-10-25-47	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Róbert Dudás, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go. [[11.30]]
u2022-10-25-48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, In the context of the steps taken to reach an agreement, I listened to the pro-government speaker and he said that the clear aim of Fidesz was to reach agreement with the European Commission, which is why we have this bill before us. With regard to this bill, allow me to correct: no, transparency should be the government's goal. The fact that the Commission is also asking for this, because it has not been created so far, is quite a problem, by the way, but the primary objective is transparency. This is what he aims at, and we trust that not only in theory, but also in practice. As far as agreements are concerned, I am convinced, we are convinced that this is the responsibility of the government, but at the same time, and that is why we support any bill that has been or is to be drawn up for agreement with the Union, because it is in the interests of all Hungarians. We have many criticisms, so we can only trust that these resources will be used properly, but, of course, we will support this as well as more. However, although we already have the bill, but I would have warned you not to do so, I would warn you to rephrase your address at least a little to suggest that you really want to do something. Because if a bill is to begin in such a way that, in order to reach agreement with the European Commission, and not to correct transparency and the errors in the system at present, and that public information is to be known to all Hungarian citizens, then here, I think there are problems of interpretation and very important importance. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, The amendment to the Act on the right to self-determination of information and freedom of information before us aims at a faster understanding of public data. In particular, the proposal contains rules on the rejection of the public interest data requirement, the failure of the deadline and the revision of the lawsuit in the event of reimbursement of the amount of the data claim. The regulation of this is forward-looking, because I believe that access to information is a fundamental right in a democratic rule of law, it should have been, and it should have been, in the past. However, the Fidesz government has always been a stepmower to public interest data requests. Just think that, under current rules, in the event of an emergency, the controller should not respond within 15 days, but within 45 days, which may be extended by 45 days. Of course, there may be room for special rules in the event of an emergency, but most of them have long since been abolished, but austerity measures on data of general interest are still in place, for several years now. Although it will finally end at the end of December, with this regulation, public interest data requests have been disrupted for years, as many demands have lost their topicality in the 90 days available. How many times have we read, heard about cases where the claimant had to go to the end in order to request and issue information? We don't have to go far, because the Curia has recently decided that the National Concession Office should finally issue the background calculations of the 35-year motorway concession. We can therefore see the importance of requests for data of general interest in order to ensure the transparent functioning of the State. No wonder, then, that it is necessary for the government to act in this area in order to reach agreement with the European Commission. The regulation of litigation proceedings on these matters is therefore to be welcomed, but the real improvement would be that the claimant would not be the only option if he was not given the required data, but, for example, the introduction of a system of sanctions and, as many previous speakers have said, and I fully agree with him, we should not even get to the trial itself. Another important part of the proposal is the creation of a public central public data register available to anyone, which is planned to include key management data of budgetary bodies and local and national authorities, in particular those of the budget grants, public procurement, contracts and payments that they provide from domestic or EU sources, amounting to HUF 5 million. We also welcome this, and we can only hope that, unlike the central electronic list of data in the public interest and the public data base established for the operation of the single public data search system, this system will also be used for data controllers and data seekers, not just by legislation to overcome the EU's obligation. Well, everything that is contained in the legislation, the draft law, it's all good and good, and it's just gonna happen. It raises a number of questions, as I have already asked: how will they enforce this with the parties concerned? I didn't hear anything about that. How will non-compliance with mandatory reporting be sanctioned? Neither did the pro-government speaker or the secretary of state say anything about this either. And what is very important is that everything that stands up now, in addition to working not only in theory but in practice, does not only work until EU funds arrive. And let us have one last thought about the central information public data register: it is very important that the register is independent from uploading it and we have seen that they were not necessarily independent, we would know a lot, and I think that the Hungarian people could talk about it, be independent of the fact that it is a government government or even an opposition government or a reporting agent. I'm just telling you, if this ever happens, it's gonna be a mirror. It will be a mirror of how in theory all government parties dealing with local governments have dealt with the municipalities, which have obtained what resources, how many resources, who, by the way, have been rejected by ten out of ten, or who, say, won 12 out of 10, has won something that he has not submitted. In closing, allow me, on behalf of the Jobbik, to explain to you that we will vote for you. Once again, as I said at the beginning, the agreement is the responsibility of the government, but at the same time it is in the interest of all Hungarians. Thank you very much.
u2022-10-25-49	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Apáti, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Group.
u2022-10-25-50	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Hungarian Movement would be much more pleased if we discussed proposals on speeding up administrative, civil or even criminal proceedings or, in other words, preventing the delay in these procedures and shortening the procedures. This would be much more important for the country and the Hungarian people, since, in administrative or civil cases or even in criminal proceedings, judgment will often be final in good times after half a decade or full decades of procedural time, and in worse cases, even a judgment of the first instance, which is not final, requires five to ten years. We understand why the agreement with the European Commission is important and why it is so urgent, but they should at the same time acknowledge, at least admit to it, in a narrow circle, between themselves and themselves, that it was very badly judged, unfortunately, that we do not welcome the economic situation and performance of the country when a few years ago very lightly made statements that Hungary can manage without European Union funds. Our Homeland Movement would be happier if that were the case. We would be most pleased if we had a Hungarian national economy set on its feet from the top of its head, and we had food self-determination for important national security purposes, and our own food and energy supply. Very little has been done in the last 12 years, the vast majority of which has been governed by two thirds in order to achieve these noble goals. Now, when we have even had a war crisis after an artificial virus grown up in labs, the desperate rush has started, partly due to international and partly to the government's fault, because I think it is correct to put it this way: in order to counter the economic crisis that is partly international and partly caused by the government's mistakes, and also to submit proposals that contradict, where appropriate, say, the proposals adopted in July, such as the legislation on declarations of assets. [[11.40]] In itself, if I look only professionally at it as a lawyer, then, of course, these rules can be supported, because whether the rules on the application, the procedure for bringing proceedings, or the fact that, if the application is suitable, the court is obliged to set the hearing within 15 days, of course, this is eligible. It is very good that the lawsuit or proceedings are suspended, suspended or other blocking rules are also laid down, as I have just mentioned, to prevent any conductive tactics, as is very right to urge judgments. At the same time, what I see is that you are either starting to make the same mistake that is usually characteristic of Brussels' over-bureaucratised operation, or you realize that you can confuse Brussels with your own weapon or your own device or bring Brussels to its knees. They are taking on the battle-modernism, the even more serious over-grabbing, which, by the way, makes virtually a large part of the European Union almost completely inoperable even to the level of daily dysfunction, as they produce regulations and rules of procedure here. To be honest, many of your best-skilled employees are not able to understand the procedural rules to be applied in certain cases. The easiest option would be for each obliged body, authority or department of a major authority or ministry to fulfil its obligations on a time-limit. There would be no need for any procedure under the old rules or the rules now being amended, no need to speed up, since there would be no case for requesting data that would go to trial. It is suspicious in the beginning if something is so hidden, if any information is not to be provided by the authorised authority or obliged authority, no matter what political values the representatives of the party are curious about, or if there is simply a citizen interest. What is the need to keep secrets in case everything is okay and everything is legal? Of course, the reason for a prolonged data request performance is not only that someone is sneaking around or hiding something, there may be a lack of labour, there may also be a reason why there are few employees in a given place, let us say, the ministries are less typical, and there is simply no working hand or adequate person to do the necessary work physically or spiritually, then, of course, this must be corrected differently. But the fact that, in many cases, your authorities or departments are deliberately, with a direct intention, blocking certain data services leads to the need to negotiate rules on simplifying, shortening procedures, pressing judgment, eliminating rules for withdrawal. You may also be able to rely on the fact that because of the translation from Hungarian to English, or the slendrian, superficial attitude of the left, which is in basically wrecked, many people will be overlooked by the fact that it is possible to create 31/A., /B., /C. in sections such excellent, remarkable, forward-looking rules, but if the operator of the system and the rules of operation are drawn up in a regulation, then again they have not actually done or done anything, as you have every means to draw or shorten individual data services, or even litigation procedures, or even publication on the website, as you would prefer. It is very good that certain rules of the glass pocket law are displayed here in the 5 million threshold from the glass pocket rule environment. It is very good that procurements exceeding HUF 5 million have to be made public. It is also very good that the parameters of supplies, service orders and works are added to the website. I can give you a good example of the Parliamentary Office. Whether the expenditure related to the operation of some Members is already published on a given website of the Office of Parliament on an annual basis of more than HUF 5 million, there are no problems or much fewer problems, such as press searches and data requests coming to the Office of Parliament, as the Office is a good example in this area. We don't know much about a scandal where it's been a matter of not releasing data from the Parliamentary Office for several months or several years. Why can this practice not be seen as an example? It'd be much cheaper, it'd take a lot less work, it'd take a lot less time. And by the way, adding data relating to public procurement is, of course, expected and important, but let us be honest with you, fellow Members, that it is in the majority of contracts that are either already under way, i.e. under way or have already been completed, when public money has already been spent or committed, and from then on public money can be struck with a stick, with or without a request for data. I do not want to mention that we are not discussing the Public Procurement Act and any other legislative environment linked to the Public Procurement Act, that public funds should be caught at the preparatory stage of a public procurement procedure, and that there should be much more effective use of both EU and domestic resources in the public interest by setting specific cost limits. In hindsight, after data requests, completed data requests, you can wonder whether it is possible to create political or other scandals, even on a well-founded basis, at what unrealistic price they were built, such as motorways, highways, and construction investments were made, but we are not going too far in itself. Crimes against certain assets may be suspected, but crimes that violate the cleanliness of public life, typically corruption crimes, will not be proven, and this will not lead to an effective use of public funds. And I would also like the answer from the honourable Secretary of State to the fact that, if something does not happen as it is in this excellent legislative environment, then what legal consequences the legislator will have for the consequences, since the strictest obligations can be imposed if they forget to fix the legal consequences, because then, in practice, they are hitting each other again with one word or one sentence. It will be completely ineffective, pointless paper production, production of rules of procedure, salt office-like, completely pointless regulation and useless at the practical level. I would ask you, Secretary of State, to answer what operating and operating rules you want to impose on the electronic interface and what legal consequences you will have if something does not happen as laid down in the rules. I will also look forward to your meaningful answer. Thank you very much. [[István Szabadi applauds.]]
u2022-10-25-51	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz Group.
u2022-10-25-52	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, My two-minute contribution was inspired primarily by the statements of the DK representative and also by other speakers. On the one hand, he added why the title of this draft legislation was: "To reach agreement with the European Commission. Because the Government of Hungary clearly aims to agree, to agree with the European Commission, and we agreed with the European Commission on a 17-point commitment, this is one part and one point of the commitment package, so that the Hungarians will receive the money that is clearly due to them. I am indicating that this is happening in an environment where Hungary fulfils all its obligations in the EU. Some have suggested why we should establish this central public information register. I note quietly that this was specifically requested by the European Commission during the negotiations and negotiations. I also think it is important to stress that the Freedom of Information Act was adopted by the Hungarian Parliament in 2011 and entered into force in 2012. During the Gyurcsány-Bajnai era, it was not possible to obtain this type of public data, and there was no such detailed regulation of the whole area. Some have suggested that there are abuses and difficulties in these processes today. And I find that in the left-wing municipalities that you run, there you apply hundreds of the city leaders' tricks, as you mentioned, to slow down the data release process. [[11.50]] I also note with caution that hundreds of tricks from your mouth have a discreet charm here in the walls of the house. By the way, I would also like to have some time, my honourable fellow Member, to discuss the matter of DataAdat here in the walls of the house. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-25-53	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for another two-minute speech, I am now asking my fellow Members that they wish to speak within the framework of the agenda in a normal time frame. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Répássy Róbert, State Secretary, if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-10-25-54	Mr. President. I asked for the floor only to indicate that I will respond in detail to the points raised at a further stage of the debate. Thank you.
u2022-10-25-55	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill amending certain laws necessary for active consumer protection until closure. Government referral T/1618. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Répássy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2022-10-25-56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, At a time of accelerated technological development, digitalisation and market changes, we must guarantee the enforcement of consumers' rights with effective and rapid assistance and a secure institutional system. Unfortunately, before 2010, we have seen what it is like to put the interests of multinationals and Brussels before Hungarian people and Hungarian consumers. We, on the other hand, do not allow Hungarian consumers and Hungarian families to become victims of globalisation, of techs and of multinationals. Since May 2022, the Ministry of Justice has performed tasks related to the professional management of the Consumer Protection Authority and consumer protection legislation and preparation of legislation. This gives us the opportunity to transform the Hungarian consumer protection system in a new way and make it more efficient. Despite the difficulties caused by penalty inflation, we are doing everything we can to protect the interests of Hungarian consumers. In view of this, the government has developed a new consumer policy focusing on four main areas. This gives priority to ensuring the protection of consumers in online space, protecting children, making consumer protection more accessible to citizens and strengthening the uniform application of law. The Hungarian government's top priority remains the representation and protection of the rights of Hungarian people, families and consumers. We have already established the Digital Freedom Committee in the Ministry of Justice in order to ensure transparency and the right to a fair trial, among other things, in the online space. In digital consumer protection, the guiding principle is that what is offline is prohibited in online space. The expansion of e-commerce also justifies the strengthening of digital consumer protection and a significant part of the European Union's consumer protection legislation sets rules for online trade. Protecting consumers online is a priority. This is also apparent from Hungary's first call for regulation of the area, and we therefore welcome the forthcoming publication of the Digital Services Regulation. In line with the Basic Law, it is also important to ensure the right of children to adequate physical, mental and moral development in consumer protection. Our aim is to ensure that the necessary effective regulatory and institutional systems are also available in the area of consumer protection. We want to show the direction followed in both legislation and the application of the law in relation to the referendum on child protection. The main guiding thread for the preparation of the Consumer Protection Authority's inspection and inspection programme for 2023 is child protection. We are also working to strengthen the enforcement of complaints and make the consumer authority system more accessible to consumers. In addition, last but not least, it is extremely important to develop a common case-law on consumer protection in order to ensure effective consumer protection. This is why we have established the Consumer Protection Round Table, where government and state actors are present, which are the first to face and detect complaints against consumers. Several forward-looking initiatives of the Consumer Protection Round Table have been held on several occasions and are included in this bill. At the same time, we will also strengthen and redefine the role of the Consumer Protection Council, which includes civil society organisations and conciliation bodies, as well as trade defence organisations. The implementation of the objectives set out in the consumer policy approved by the Government in July 2022 justified a full review of the domestic consumer protection acquis. This resulted in the preparation and submission of a bill amending certain laws necessary for active consumer protection, based on a wide-ranging assessment, social consultation and consensus on issues in the field of consumer protection that need to be addressed. The package of proposals was also discussed by the Consumer Protection Council, the Consumer Protection Round Table, the Family-friendly Working Group, further proposals and opinions from government agencies acting as consumer protection authorities, conciliation bodies and civil society organisations for consumer protection. The bill provides a solution to the problems they have identified, and it also serves EU harmonisation objectives in terms of representative actions and accessibility. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us, accompanied by a number of amendments at the level of government regulations and ministerial regulations, is the first milestone in the implementation of the guidelines and objectives set out in consumer policy. In the bill, we ensure a high level of protection for children, family and family relationships in order to prevent commercial practices from manipulating their use. The family is a guarantee of the survival of the nation, a basic unit of society, in which relations between parents and children are also of great importance beyond their relationship and parent-child relationships. The proposal identifies families as a clearly identifiable group of consumers and, more specifically, their members with different commercial communications focusing on family relations as a recognition of this key role. The general reference to family relationships is not limited to the relationship between parents and parent-child, but also to all of them, including remote family relationships. The amendment facilitates the identification of the family as a vulnerable group exposed to influence. At the same time, we are also reforming actions of general interest when, by transposing the EU standard on representative actions, we are granting organisations entitled to bring a representative action against infringing undertakings. From the end of June 2023, the new rules allow for a significantly more effective enforcement of consumer rights, as, on the basis of the representative action, the court may require undertakings to remedy the infringement in a meaningful way, for example, compensation, correction or price reduction. Thus, the consumer group concerned does not need to sue for the enforcement of its rights separately, i.e. it only has to prove that it belongs to the circle defined in the court decision, so that it can enforce its rights much faster and easier. Representation actions will be open to authorised organisations on the basis of the legislative amendment, which may be partly non-profit organisations protecting consumer interests and, on the other hand, different authorities on the basis of the law. [[12.00]] Since the representative actions submitted and the results thereof will have to be made public, the consumer community concerned will also be more easily informed of those actions and of the manner and conditions in which it will obtain, where appropriate, the amount or compensation due to it. It is important that, depending on the designation of authorised organisations, representative actions will allow the court to sue both domestic and cross-border infringements, thus protecting Hungarian citizens not only at home but also at EU level. The transposition of the Accessibility Directive is a priority for the protection of people with disabilities and the elderly, with the aim of ensuring that as many products and services as possible are accessible by the summer of 2025. The new specifications also apply, for example, to mobile phones or laptops. Persons with disabilities should be provided with information on the use of these devices on more than one sensory channel in order to be able to effectively and fully use the apparatus they purchase. The regulation covers not only the consumer and market surveillance area in a narrower sense, i.e. traditional products, but also mobile applications, websites, self-service vending machines, ticket or ATMs, banking services, which are also available to disabled people without obstacles. In addition, there are a number of amendments to the bill that replace or create coherence. Thus, among other things, the Consumer Protection Authority has the power to verify that the trader provides the consumer with the possibility of electronic payment and, as a new rule, that the company provides the consumer with clear information on the modification of the often very long and complicated business regulations and standard contract terms. In this way, consumers do not need to search through long and hard-to-understand pages, what has changed in the rules of business, but can learn about the changes from a short and understandable summary. The content of the pre-contractual information to be provided to the consumer on conciliation bodies will be clarified, the Consumer Protection Authority will be able to verify that the trader provides the consumer with electronic payments and that the ban on advertising for children is extended to six or eight-class high schools and colleges receiving such students. The proposal to amend the Consumer Protection Act protects not only consumers but also honest businesses, such as allowing the company to refrain from responding in cases where the consumer repeatedly lodges a complaint with the same content. The bill also serves to reduce the administrative burden when it makes it a condition for the opening of the consumer protection authority procedure for the consumer to directly attempt to settle the dispute with the undertaking concerned. A similar rule exists at present in the field of public services and in the case of conciliation body proceedings, and, on the basis of experience, a significant part of the cases will be settled at this stage. The amendment will allow the Consumer Protection Authority to deal with substantive matters that really require public intervention. Dear Parliament, The bill amending certain laws necessary for active consumer protection in order to better represent the rights of Hungarian people, families and consumers, and to protect and enforce them more effectively contains a number of forward-looking and worthy proposals. Thank you for your attention, and I ask this House to support the bill.
u2022-10-25-57	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Sándor F. Kovács, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2022-10-25-58	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, There is an amendment of the law, a law that is now on the table of this House, which is very important in today's world, because trade is changing, marketing is changing, and there are more and more people who are no longer buying in the traditional marketplace or shops, but in the online space; the Hungarian Parliament must also respond to this according to the law, these challenges must be met. I am sure that we will manage this in the process of consumer protection legislation, because trade, marketing and advertising will change a lot in recent years and in the coming years. Dear House, T/1618 on the amendment of certain laws on the table of this House which are necessary for active consumer protection The purpose of the bill is to ensure that, at EU and national level, there is an effective and effective procedural mechanism available to so-called authorised organisations in respect of actions aimed at eliminating infringements to consumers and representing actions to remedy infringements. Due to the spread of digitalisation and the expansion of online trade, there is an increased risk that illegal practices committed by the same undertaking will harm a large number of consumers. Violation of consumer protection procedures can be detrimental to the consumer if there is no effective means of eliminating illegal practices and leads to a reduction in consumer confidence and consumer dissatisfaction, which could negatively affect the economic environment and the functioning of the market. Dear House, The bill contains several amendments for harmonisation purposes, some of which I would like to highlight. The amendments to the Directive on accessibility requirements for products and services aim to ensure that as many products and services as possible are accessible to people with disabilities and older people. To this end, the obligations of each economic operator to demonstrate compliance with the accessibility requirements, to fulfil those requirements, and to lay down rules on measures to be taken by the market surveillance authority in the event of non-compliance. The amendments to transpose the Directive on representative actions make it possible to enforce consumer rights more effectively and since, on the basis of a representative action, the court may require undertakings to remedy consumer rights violations, such as compensation, so that the consumer community concerned does not have to sue for the enforcement of its rights separately. The 1997 CLV on consumer protection. The amendment of Law allows businesses to refrain from responding in cases where the consumer repeatedly lodges a complaint with the same content. In addition, in order to reduce the administrative burden, the opening of the consumer protection authority procedure will be subject to the consumer's direct attempt to resolve the dispute with the undertaking concerned, since, in areas such as public services, conciliation bodies, where a similar rule exists, experience has shown that a significant part of the matter will be settled during this preparatory phase. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The government's top priority is the representation of Hungarian people, families, consumers' rights and their protection, for which the Fidesz faction grants all the support. Priority objectives in the area of consumer protection: digital consumer protection, child protection, access to consumer protection and the development of uniform case-law. In the context of technological development, there is a process of increasing the role of online space and online marketing in terms of trade. One of the biggest expansions of online marketing appears in social media, where businesses and companies can access advertising space that reaches a large number of people. Many companies offering services use consumer positive opinions for advertising purposes, advertising, which are sometimes false and come from non-existent persons. This is why digital consumer protection is very important for the future. [[12.10]] Dear Parliament, In conclusion, the bill before us contains forward-looking provisions in the area of consumer protection, and I therefore call on my fellow Members to support this proposal, in the light of what has been said, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-10-25-59	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2022-10-25-60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, These rare occasions include the negotiation of the current bill, where we are essentially lucky to have many, many positive points, a package of laws that contains many good proposals for voters and citizens here in the House. In this respect, it does not really matter which of these are those which concern the transposition of an EU directive or the application of any EU legislation in Hungary, or the introduction into domestic practice, and which part of it is what the government itself proposes on this subject. In any case, we are talking about an important area, in any case, a matter that we do not deal with enough, which should be dealt with here, within the walls of the House, rather than with the previous bill, so that I can give you an example, because I believe that consumer protection does not yet reach the level that would otherwise be necessary. It is widely seen by citizens that they cannot find solutions to a number of their consumer problems, they cannot find solutions, they do not feel that if anyone in Hungary as a consumer has any problems, then the current institutional system and the current complaint system can handle it with comfort. Therefore, if we touch such a question as we do now, it is definitely a positive and good step in itself. The package of proposals contains a number of elements that are good for the consumer, which will benefit people and should be welcomed. These are certainly important proposals. I would add that, and this is the weakness of actually putting this proposal into practice, if you will, they are in the context of its implementation and I have left me with questions and doubts. To be specific, one important part of this proposal is that representative actions to protect the collective interests of consumers will also be possible, so to say. This is a little bit, I understand, of course, the American sample, or similar to the law institution that has existed in America for decades, which has been successfully used by consumer defenders in case of group problems. But it is similar to it, there is also a European solution to this, and several countries use European-type opt-in solutions in this. So this is a good example and let's see if it works in Hungary. The problem with the transposition of such foreign institutions into domestic law and practice is that they cannot be transposed in one way or another, so the rules are really nice, only that in practice this actually works, and it has really been thought about the fact that consumers can really act more effectively in a group, what cohesion is created between them, what and how the public institution system can help. But I'm telling you, this idea is still to be supported, and I think this proposal is also correct. There are uncertainties about the practical part of me that they will work, and we will not be sitting here in six months, a year from now, when we are going to talk about, yeah, this actually hasn't been fully considered for the Hungarian relations, and therefore it doesn't work, so the government will come to change it. The second and, if you like, even more significant issue is that, in relation to the many, many consumer protection measures that are proposed, for example, how companies operating webshops should act, they should be made accessible, but not just the website, but all the related documents, and the rest of them, I do not see in this proposal that while it is good for consumers, but in order to say that the cow should not die, so to say, the burden on businesses. Any impact assessment has been carried out, and the legislators have considered that this type of extra employment, plus service, if you will, is obviously an additional administrative and other burden for businesses. I think, if you like it, as a consumer and as a consumer supporter, that, of course, this has a level that can and should be accepted, but it would be very important to know at the time of the debate and when we consider this law that the legislator has thought of this, that there is any impact assessment, and if so, that we can see it. And I'm sorry, I would add here that, as we have said so many times, it would be extremely important for this type of proposal to get to know the opinions of professional organisations. I understood in the presentation by the Secretary of State that he said that this was supported by professional organisations. In addition, it would be really useful to read these grants or their detailed opinions, either as an annex to the bill or as any kind of background material... [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] Yeah, it's just that it doesn't go into practice to really get to know it. And at the end of the day, I would add that I am not going to take the part of the bill that deals with the fact that if someone does not act this way, so that if it is not the website, any online service provider that otherwise does not make these changes will not operate in this sense in a more friendly way for consumers, what happens and what is the retortion of non-compliance with this rule. Is there any short comment about this? Well, there's a tiny bit that deals with the fact that, of course, the government will try to keep it by all means, but I don't see that there's enough radical retortion behind it. I do not see that, therefore, these good steps in the right direction are indeed being put into practice, and if they are not, they can be enforced, and if so, how, so that consumers can perceive this. I held these, once again, to the main points of the legislative package, which was otherwise taken in the right direction as a good step. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-10-25-61	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-10-25-62	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The representation of the interests of Hungarian people and Hungarian families is a priority task of consumer protection; the Ministry of Justice has been given professional leadership in the field of consumer protection on the basis of the new statute established in 2022. In order to guarantee the inviolability of Hungarian consumer rights, the Hungarian Government has formulated the aims of consumer protection in four cornerstones: 1353/2022. [[CHAPTER VII 21.]] as set out in the government decision. The first cornerstone is child protection, i.e. to ensure the smooth development of children; we cannot allow our children to become victims of hidden ideological, sexual propaganda. The second cornerstone is digital consumer protection, i.e. to answer the questions of the digital world, and to find appropriate legal solutions to the downsides of technological development, thus protecting Hungarians in the online space. The third cornerstone should be to make consumer protection available, i.e. to be user-friendly and easily accessible to all people, close to consumer protection itself, and finally to establish a common case-law. [[12.20]] Ladies and Gentlemen, The Hungarian government prefers active consumer protection. This bill also serves this purpose. On the government's part, Róbert Répássy, State Secretary, has already explained in detail the content of the amendment. I fully agree with what he has said, and I do not wish to repeat it. Ladies and Gentlemen, The KDNP parliamentary faction supports T/1618. Bill No. 1. Please, support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-10-25-63	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Szabó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2022-10-25-64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Colleagues! The proposal aims to reflect on a real existing social problem, the increasing buying of products in the online space by consumers. The proposal underlines that if effective instruments are not available to eliminate illegal practices, consumer confidence, consumer dissatisfaction will be reduced, which will negatively affect the economic environment and the functioning of the market. With this claim, I think it is impossible to argue that adequate and effective redress in the event of an infringement is the key to trust and the proper functioning of the economy. Unfortunately, however, the government is expressing similar thoughts only in the justification of this law. These are not, however, universal. In order to ensure effective means of redress, it is essential to have administrative and judicial independence, which they have been working for years to reduce on a systemic and comprehensive basis. The consumer protection system that this proposal seeks to improve should be assessed in this framework. Moreover, the proposal sets out the conditions under which a consumer protection organisation must prove to be able to bring a representative action to protect consumers' collective interests, which is our obligation under EU law to transpose a set of requirements. Although the conditions are fundamentally reasonable, unfortunately, the proposal did not state in general or in detail the number of consumer organisations in Hungary that could be adversely affected by this amendment or what the government is doing to provide adequate information on the fulfilment of the two conditions. The last-to-end point of the conditionality is that the body that intends to act is independent and is not under the influence of other persons, in particular undertakings, other than consumers, who have an economic interest in bringing representative actions, even if the organisations were financed by third parties and, to that end, developed procedures to prevent such influence and to prevent conflicts of interest between themselves and its financiers and consumers. In order not to reduce the effectiveness of consumer protection, the government should provide relevant information to the bodies concerned on how these conditions can be fulfilled, but no reference to this is also found in the explanatory memorandum. The proposal emphasises that it makes it mandatory for the consumer to contact the undertaking before the opening of the consumer protection procedure, i.e. it becomes a condition for the consumer to try directly to settle the dispute with the undertaking concerned. Although the proposal would like to legitimise this by emphasising that many consumers turn to the authorities without otherwise attempting to resolve the complaint with the undertaking, there is a similar rule to that currently in place, whether in the case of public services or conciliation bodies. However, this justification lacks the essential elements of how many consumer protection procedures have been completed where the company was otherwise willing to cooperate in such a way that it was clear that it would otherwise have met consumer needs. It is also important to address another statement of justification. According to this, this provision of the proposal is intended to reduce administrative burdens, but this is precisely wrong, since the proposal actually imposes an administrative burden on the consumer by attempting to agree with businesses before the opening of the consumer protection procedure, which may ultimately result in a loss of consumer rights. This, I think, is not in line with the objective of the proposal to improve the state of consumer protection in Hungary. Overall, the proposal would therefore be considered fundamentally good, including a number of provisions to ensure compliance with European Union law. Unfortunately, however, the proposal will, on the one hand, reduce or reduce consumers' rights by increasing administrative burdens, which is an unacceptable practice and, on the other hand, due to the deterioration of the wider legal environment, judicial and administrative independence, the proposal is unlikely to fulfil its objective with the best of intentions. Thank you.
u2022-10-25-65	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go.
u2022-10-25-66	Mr President, Dear House, I am pleased with this proposal. One of the government's biggest historical failures to my mind was that there was a separate consumer protection committee, and I think it would have been a committee with enormous potential if the Fidesz-KDNP had kept it. Unfortunately, he did not keep it, did he not, in a way, melt it into the Committee, and here, despite the best of intentions, he could not get as much attention in this area as in the Commission structure when he had a separate Committee on Consumer Protection. Let us recall, Mr Secretary of State, I think it was there when the consumer protection committee was also involved in the process of examining foreign currency lending, which is essentially a judicial committee. That is why there have been findings on foreign exchange lending, which are still the subject and part of the literature. Let us state on this proposal that when it comes to directives and transposition obligations, one is always a little cold, because the feeling of life is that if the Hungarian legislator had settled these areas to the last part, then it is not certain that there would be a need for the kind of follow-up behaviour, the essence of which is that a directive is born, a European Union idea is born, which has to be transposed into the Hungarian legal order within a certain deadline, if this does not happen, then the sanctioning options will come up and the binding scope will then arise. The fact is that here the legislator has decided to try to transpose these provisions on this road, as it lies before us on the table. Let's see what we agree on. Even the perceived additional administrative burden on consumers does not bother me so much in lifelike cases. So if a perfume is wrong, then I will certainly not start with the authorities, but first complain to the person I bought it from, but my fellow Member did not mean this case, I understand. However, it is not in itself that the consumer or the citizen must contact the trader concerned or the other party with whom he or she is or will be in dispute, and otherwise, the possibility of collective action, if the government had worked out earlier, would have been very, very useful in certain cases, particularly those of a financial consumer protection nature. Again, I have to refer back to foreign exchange lending: then the government did not encourage collective action in consumer protection matters so much. What did the government encourage back then? It means that, preferably, the courts should not be surrounded by individual interests, but should preferably be told from up here how and how a dispute can be resolved. So it's strange how the government's meeting point determines its position. If you want to copy a situation as a currency loan, you do not want to support individual enforcement, and in such cases you would like to do so under the EU directive on consumer protection and the directive. But let us accept that now, in this case, I think that facilitating collective action is a correct approach, and I think that we should support this. At the same time, there has been a discussion of all the factors that undermine opposition colleagues, typically because the proposal has been widened here and there, its justification is incomplete, and it does not give practical, life-like answers to certain questions. What we see here is that, indeed, if you have sat down with these organisations and, Mr Secretary of State, it is good that you have done this, both with regard to the Consumer Protection Round Table and the Council, well, I assume that there have been impact assessments, backgrounds, so some document, I assume you have received. Mr. Secretary, you're not answering that right now, but you're gonna have to honor us with a nod. I took it off as a yes. [[12.30]] Secretary of State, there is a law on legislation. It is not an option for you to share an impact assessment with all Members of Parliament, Mr Secretary of State, it is a law that obliges you to do so. The fact that you don't comply with this on a series of occasions doesn't mean it's an optional benefit that you can do. We could now argue more effectively with each other if, where appropriate, the organisations involved, where political voices appear, should, say, invite opposition representatives. I think it could be a productive debate, in which case it is certain that it could be largely unpoliticised. On the other hand, by sharing the impact assessments involved, we could have pulled out the fangs of this debate, there would not be an interpretation debate between us on issues of law, but we could basically pick and argue between the political lines and the proposals for solutions. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. But I would draw your attention to the fact that you have an obligation, not to help our work, but to help Parliament's work, because we have a lot of work to do in this area. I am very pleased that the protection of children has been discussed, and I would like to address one or two of the words of Mr. Secretary of State, not to break up the framework of our debate. We agree, and the Fundamental Law also obliges the legislator to do so, that vulnerable groups, elderly people, pensioners, children and families should also be included in the family, it is very important to emphasise that extra protection should be enjoyed, because obviously, the victims of deception in the area of consumer protection are typically older people and children. That's why I've been bothering you for years to make sure that consumer groups are banned. This did not happen either, only in the future way, but at least we dealt with the subject. Here, however, I have practical questions, Mr Secretary, and I hope that we can find answers to them. What about, like, the Elf Barral? You had a very detailed debate about this in public life. We're talking about absolute child protection here. I see it, and I fear that you may not have been able to understand the challenges of the digital age effectively, but you have basically turned a tax issue into an issue with a tax dimension, but it is essentially a consumer protection issue. How do you intend to solve this? To extend the question a little, Mr. Secretary, there are webshops where either drug derivatives or cross-border ingredients are sold, advertised, things that you and I do not want to see on the Hungarian market. What is the sanction system now in place, as amended by the proposal before us, so that these drug derivatives cannot reach the relevant Hungarian consumers, if any, underage? This calls for an answer, and you may agree with me that there are question marks with regard to the sanctioning system. It would not be far from me that, in some cases, the internet site, which advertises, sells, propagates derivatives against which there is a legal ban in Hungary, should be able to be shot at least for a temporary period of time. What I see is that in your consumer climate, the institutional system is not prepared to deal with these very serious, serious situations. I do not see any wording in this bill that would give a reassuring answer. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, with regard to the operation of webshops, where a cross-border element appears, there is still a lot of uncertainty, but even when ordering from a cross-border webshop, it is typical that you pay the amount, because you do not have the appropriate information regarding stocking, say, after that you receive a notification, and sometimes you have to wait two to three weeks or more to get the product already paid, there may also be different obstacles to getting the money back. These are everyday, lifelike problems. There are beautiful guidelines, beautiful collective action options, but there are examples of real life that can be resolved. The same, Mr Secretary of State, is the case of the double delivery fee, i.e. when we order a new product within a short period of time from the same supplier, but still within the delivery deadline, and where appropriate, the delivery fee will be charged once more. So such very small, bureaucratic elements can make everyday life very difficult, they are annoying factors that could otherwise be eliminated in the correct application of the law. However, it is a prerequisite for the correct application of law that such packages, such as those lying before us now, contain elements that enable a lifelike climate, so that the person who applies these rules will be able to act within this. I've already mentioned the impact studies. With regard to the cross-border element, I would also have a very important proposal, and this is a digital ombudsman's type of authority in the case of specifically cross-border disputes, so where the consumer has suffered injury because either he cannot recover the money or has not received what he has ordered, so there is such a lifelike problem. It would be good if, at the digital ombudsman level, the costs of representation in disputes could be advanced, the cost of advocacy in cases which appear to be quite clear from the point of view of consumer interest. Therefore, with a simple online request, if the correct case description is acceptable and the customer can support it with the necessary documents, why not advance the costs of enforcing the law and interest for Hungary in cases where, in the absence of this advance, the procedure itself does not start very often, and the Hungarian consumer, the Hungarian customer, therefore, cannot enforce its interests because of the lack of funds. I think that it would be a very important national strategic aspect that, in the case of cross-border disputes, even without different broadest insurance relationships, a Hungarian citizen could claim to advance his costs. I also said this when considering the construction of the labour ombudsman, where such an advance factor would be very useful in the case of labour-related disputes. Overall, that is all that can be done professionally, but I think it is important to say about this proposal. What I do not understand with Mr Secretary of State is that you were here in 2010 and you are here now, and that is true of me, but we both remember the period before 2010. I am not a big fan of that era in the economic policy sense, but the fact that you, in contrast to the interests of the multinationals, have always represented the consumer, that is what you said in the exposé, is simply not meeting reality, Mr. Secretary of State. Let's start with what you did on the taxation front, how you reduced corporate tax, Mr. Secretary of State. They reduced it to a single digit, which in itself could be a good thing. What percentage was a discount for a Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprise? I'll show you. [[He's holding up a finger.]] One percent discount. What percentage discount did you give to a multi-company? Seven or eight times that, Mr. Secretary of State. So the fact is that you have not moved towards public burdens, but have dislodged multinational companies, and have only provided minimal concessions or allowed them to reach Hungarian businesses. Then they did the same with regard to the banking system, when banks sided with foreign exchange lenders, let or still allow mass evictions. Now they know that the number of evictions has been above 20,000 since 2010, and there is a minimum wave, but unfortunately they allowed these events almost every year. They signed a EBRD pact, agreed with banks, the Banking Association in a series, but not with the clients involved, the victims, and in many cases they did not speak to them. We see, Mr State Secretary, that during the crisis period, when micro, small and medium-sized enterprises should have benefited, you have typically given non-refundable subsidies to: let us say, large Western European car factories, even those who did not need this in a dedicated way. We see that the volume of job creation grants is about three times as large for multi-enterprises as for Hungarian small or medium-sized enterprises. Who maintain the majority of jobs in Hungary? Micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, about two thirds. So I would like to ask you to be modest in this subject and not completely thrown away from the subject of the proposal before us, but I thought it was absolutely necessary to say this because it is very, very irritating when you try to paint a picture as if you were defending the interests of Hungarian citizens against the multinationals, while the reality in the cases I have listed shows something quite different in a way that can be justified by facts and numbers. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-10-25-67	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Apáti, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Group. Here you go.
u2022-10-25-68	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Of course, consumers can be expected to act on their own to enforce their legitimate or legitimate needs, and only in the event of failure or failure to do so, should they contact the authority or the court. [[12.40]] It is also very forward that there will be so-called authorised organisations that act in the interest of consumers or consumer groups, but the strongest, most effective so-called approved organisation if this term has been found to be the most appropriate term, after all, the Ministry of Justice. And since so many people have said so much about consumer protection here, let me bring you a subject that I have not yet heard from either pro-government or opposition representatives. An extremely topical consumer issue: after you have given up on a larger part of the policy of reducing the rent, you have significantly deceived your own consumers, i.e. their own voters, if you like, and have to face a significant increase in the number of hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families, this raises serious questions, whether in terms of gas or electricity bills. And if consumer protection is the essence of this item on the agenda, I would like to point out to the Secretary of State that you would be kind enough to help Hungarian people to find their way around gas and electricity bills, because it is very difficult to determine the amount of the electricity bill expected to be paid on the basis, for example, of the formulas provided by the service providers, even with serious physicist knowledge. This may, to put it mildly, be appropriate to mislead and harm consumers and to do so in an economic environment where there is a significant rise in unemployment. According to information not from you, but from reliable construction sources, the construction industry will at best account for February, March plus 60 thousand unemployed, and this is the most favourable scenario, which will continue to rise in the second half of next year. But in other sectors, in other areas too, many will lose their jobs. Their income is therefore significantly reduced and, where appropriate, lost, and their expenditure is drastically increased, and not only their food-type expenditure. I will also point out how often low-quality foods are sold to consumers in such an incredibly expensive way; I will say a few words about this later. But here's the other basic need, the lighting and the heating, which many families can't solve with anything other than natural gas to talk about heating. And either when calculating the price of natural gas or electricity, they see that they are trying to fool them. When consumer complaints come to me that you have left behind, then you may simply divide the annual reduced rate by 12 over the next period and set your electricity or gas bill to do so, and yet you are receiving accounts with a gross amount of HUF more than that, then everyone is confused. We are talking to a satisfied consumer or a reasonable person who can adapt to these accounts and calculation methods, it is very rare to meet. So with great respect, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State that the Ministry of Justice pay particular attention to this heating season in the coming weeks and months, which is why it becomes urgent on a daily basis to assist filmmakers in this regard. Just as very little assistance is given to consumers in the event of abuse related to certain construction works, which, where appropriate, relate not only to family-married construction but also to the execution of multi-house condominiums with extremely poor quality materials and lousy work. This, however, is no longer a few thousand or a few ten thousand forints, but, where appropriate, many million forints, or the boom in the real estate market, construction fees, labour fees, material prices, in terms of their amazing placement in no other country, where appropriate, several tens of millions forints. I will be interested to know what kind of assistance so-called qualified organisations will be able to offer consumers. As I have just touched upon, it is a violation of the self-esteem of many Hungarians by the fact that they can purchase low-quality food, not at gold prices, but at virtually diamond prices, from the bellies of large multinational trade chains that you support. Let's leave those stories about 13, 20 and 30 percent inflation, the reality is much worse than that. The increase in the prices of most basic foods was not measured in percentages, but in multipliers in the projection of the last 2 to 2.5 years. And I'm not talking about luxury items, I'm talking about basic dairy products, meat products that belong to the basic needs category. It can be done for you that everything is okay, that it is not drastic, but I suggest you go to stores more often, shops or even village little ABCs, and you will see that there are crowds of shocked people standing in front of the shelves, trying to figure out what else fits into the monthly budget and what else is not. And when they receive low-quality food at such prices after such a history, they are rightly nervous. In the case of purchases of a few thousand HUF, they will neither individually claim nor turn to the so-called authorized organizations, nor anywhere else, but bitterly absorb new and new humiliations. Many feel that this can only be done with us Hungarians. Because it couldn't be done to people in a Western European country or in a country east of us. They've been ruling for 12 years, mostly two-thirds of the time. You have every opportunity, every right, every obligation, and every responsibility. It is possible to talk about organisations authorised to do so, to talk about which opposition party supports or rejects this proposal, but in itself the creation of new legal institutions will not improve or change daily practice. But we could also say a few words about the fact that those who are recently building up to go back to the construction area or who are doing smaller or larger renovations can see that we Hungarians are not only being pulled down with serious amounts, they are performing in a poor quality, but they are slylyly with a few deciliters, they reduce the amount of goods in question to a lesser or greater extent, and they even increase the price in addition. What has so far been, say, in a three-litre forint, is now in a 2.7-litre container of 1500 forints. But the same is true of certain food products: the quantity is decreasing and the price is increasing significantly. Let's be honest, these are interrelated, mutually reinforcing, self-exciting processes. In many cases, the amazing kaymanship and profit hunger of the multis leads to the level of price increases that people have to suffer, and they provide people with or without a price cap with virtually extremely weak protection. And speaking of the various car-making companies that have received horrific subsidies: you, Mr. Secretary of State, are giving a lot more money to the multinationals to support a major employee than the governments before 2010 have done, this is a very sad statement, by the way; you are hiding it, you do not talk about it to your own voters, but that is still true, and what quality cars we meet compared to that; respect for the rare exception. I do not want to bring my bias towards Japanese cars here, because it would already call into question my objectivity, but with a number of consumers, many large Western European brands are not so happy and not so proud, the more annoying and angry its owner in recent years I have come to the conclusion that the automotive industry has become one of the hotbeds of money cuts, money cuts, legal damage. Respect for the exception, I always add, because I do not declare collective guilt or responsibility in this respect either. However, in many cases, the products of the large German automotive companies are produced in a highly questionable quality, and repairing failures, especially those resulting from excessive electronics, also means hundreds of thousands of millions of dollars in lower and middle-class cars. I'm not talking about the luxury category, because it doesn't belong here, and anyone who can pay for a luxury product is probably capable of repairing and maintaining it. I am talking about vehicles purchased by ordinary people or by earners who are barely above average. There was a high price competition and a high price competition between manufacturers before 2020, less profit in the purchase price of motor vehicles could be realised, built in, and the cost of harming consumers would be richly restored to the profit that could not be obtained, won or realised by the purchase price of new cars. [[12.50]] So, when we have big debates here on how effective these organisations will be, let us go back to the level of daily practice. Once again, as regards the interpretation and calculation of gas and electricity bills, it is necessary to salt them to the service providers, Mr Secretary of State, in order not to harm people in particular at such a difficult time. Of course, in an easier economic period, or in the face of less economic difficulties, they should not realize any benefits or take money out of people's pockets that is not justified. In many cases, food is a particularly difficult and priority area for poor quality, poor quality, construction and car manufacturing, so pay particular attention to this in the future. Thank you very much. [[István Szabadi applauds.]]
u2022-10-25-69	Dear Parliament, We have now reached the end of the keynote speeches, and now we have two-minute speeches. [[No one's reporting.]] Since no one has made contact, I would like to ask if someone would like to speak on our agenda in a further, normal time frame. [[No one indicates his intention to comment.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2022-10-25-70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would also like to point out that I will respond in more detail to the comments on the bill at a further stage of the debate. I cannot promise that in every case of consumer protection that you have spoken about here, within the walls of this House, we can talk about the bill, but of course we will find a way to possibly learn more about the cases that you have mentioned here and what consumer protection procedures there are. I would like to make it clear that the Ministry of Justice is not the consumer protection authority, but, in fact, the government offices have the consumer protection authorities. Our task, the Ministry of Justice, is to provide professional guidance and regulation, but, of course, we can still have a look at these specific cases. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-10-25-71	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A joint general debate on the draft law amending certain laws on the subject of justice and on the draft law amending the laws on the publication of certain international treaties on judicial cooperation will follow. Government referrals T/1621. and T/1609. available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr Répássy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the bill. Secretary of State, please.
u2022-10-25-72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, At this point on the agenda, two legislative proposals will be discussed together. This is because T/1609 on the amendment of the laws on the publication of international treaties on judicial cooperation Legislative bill No 1 and T/1621 amending certain laws on the subject of justice Law No 1 is closely linked to each other. T/1609. Bill No.3 seeks to amend the laws on the publication of certain international treaties on international civil justice cooperation in order to comply with Act L of 2005 on the procedure for international treaties. This will address earlier shortcomings. The 1980 Hague Child Adoption Convention, published by Decree-Law No 14 of 1986, and the 2004 CXVI. The Hague Convention on the taking of evidence, published by law in 1970, provides that the Convention shall enter into force with the States which subsequently acceded to the Convention only if the former Contracting States have expressly accepted the accession. In accordance with the rules in force in the international contract procedure, declarations of acceptance of accessions should be included in the declaring act. This requirement is met by the proposal from Hungary, because the accessions were adopted earlier without it. The adoption of accessions to the child-taking convention falls within the exclusive competence of the Union on the basis of the opinion of the Court of Justice of the European Union and, from that date, accessions will be adopted by Council decisions. Consequently, it is only necessary to amend the law in respect of accessions accepted by Hungary in the previous period. The States whose accession to the Convention has been accepted by Hungary so far are listed in the Annex to the Act declaring the Convention of Inquiry. The proposal also aims at the adoption by the Parliament of the accession of Georgia, Malta, Nicaragua and Vietnam to the Convention. In addition to the above, the proposal includes the Convention on the taking of evidence and Article XXXVI of 2005 The English text of reservations and declarations made by Hungary to the 1965 Hague Service Convention, published by law. This also serves to comply with the law on the procedure for international contracts, complementing the reservations and declarations already laid down in the Hungarian language only. Dear House, Hereinafter referred to as the T/1621 amending certain laws on the subject of justice I would like to set out the main objectives of the legislative amendments contained in the legislative proposal No. Certain laws on intellectual property rights are substantially modified in a procedural manner, partly on the basis of practical experience and partly for the purpose of complying with the law of the European Union. The amendment of the Competition Act is intended to comply with Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on competitive and fair markets in the digital sector, i.e. EU law, 2022/1925. In addition, the proposal provides the Economic Competition Authority with a new instrument to support the enforcement of companies' behaviour and, on the basis of practical experience, it also achieves a fine-tuning of merger control rules. LIII of 1994 on judicial enforcement The minimum amount free of enforcement is increased to HUF 60,000 in the course of official transfer orders and bans issued in the event of a natural person's debtor. This exemption does not apply in full after the amendment in the case of child support and the implementation of the cost of childbirth. In other words, in order to meet these demands, 50 percent of the amount that is exempted can continue to be implemented in the future, which is now 60 thousand forints. The recovery of privileged claims will continue to be treated as a priority in the implementation procedures. In addition to raising the minimum amount free in implementation, the amount over which the salary or the amount in the payment account may be subject to unlimited execution will be increased. This is currently 142,500 forints for wages and 114,000 forints for official transfer orders; in both cases it has been uniformly increased to 200,000 forints. The increase is justified by the fact that the minimum wage has also increased significantly over the past years, and, on the basis of the enforcement feedback, the situation of debtors is significantly hampered by the low level of deduction limits, thus increasing it. From 1 January 2022, the gross amount of the minimum wage is HUF 200,000, while the net amount is HUF 133 thousand; the guaranteed minimum wage is HUF 260 thousand and the net amount is HUF 172 900. It should be pointed out that the possibility of payment of instalments remains ensured during the implementation procedures, where the implementation procedure is interrupted. In view of the payment of the instalments, the prohibitions will be suspended, a new official transfer order and the sale of movable immovable property will not be issued until the amounts set out in the instalment agreement are met by the debtor. [[13.00]] According to the amendment, payments made in the future by the pensioners not on a monthly basis and not on a monthly basis, for example, the 13th month pension may be deducted exclusively from the amount of the child maintenance claim and the amount of the civil law claim imposed on the debtor in civil proceedings or in criminal proceedings for the benefit of the natural person. The amendment also makes all compensation annuities exempt from the prohibition. During the implementation procedure, the value shall be determined by the executioner. Where a party does not agree with the assessment of the value of the property or requests an expert to contribute to the assessment of the value of the movable property, the costs incurred shall be advanced by the person who has requested these measures. On the basis of the amendment, legal aid and the right to record costs may be used under the relevant legislation. The amendment of the notary law clarifies the rules on the replacement of the notary and clarifies the number of persons who are members of the notary office. This will also make the operation of notaries exercising public authority more transparent and facilitate legislative coherence. The amendment also concerns notaries who have a retirement age of less than five years until at least the age of 65. These notaries are not obliged to set up notary offices in order to relieve administrative burdens. The amendment of the company law primarily responds to the need for clarification for harmonisation of laws and, secondly, in practice. In accordance with EU legal requirements, from August 2023, the Hungarian Business Registration System will be able to provide information on whether a person to be appointed as a senior official is subject to criminal or corporate ban under Hungarian law. Communication between these Member States will take place through the relevant IT channel, electronically, without the use of human resources. The amendment of the Law on the probate procedure reflects practical feedback and serves to establish consistency between laws. To this end, on the basis of the amendment, where the deceased was a lawyer at the time of his death, the office manager shall be responsible for deciding a number of questions. It is therefore for the office administrator to decide whether the document relating to the legal activities of the deceased has been subject to the obligation to keep a lawyer's file and whether the document, the money and the property are the subject of a legal deposit. The clerk's statement is bound by the notary or notary during the recording of the inventory of the estate. In addition, the proposal adapts the provisions of the Law on the Probation Procedure to the provisions of the Act on consular protection, given that consular officials are no longer authorised to issue consular documents on legal declarations or legal transactions. (The President's seat is Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Parliament.) In order to ensure that the 2010 CLXXXIV on the name, seat and jurisdiction of the courts. In Annex 2 to Law No 2 determining the competence of the judging boards, the areas of competence should be included in accordance with the division in force and it is necessary to re-establish this Annex. Dear Parliament, The proposal also concerns rules on relations between a separate parent and a child. In view of the recent decision of the Constitutional Court and the problems encountered in the course of the contacts, it is appropriate to supplement the provisions of the Civil Code defining the content of the decision on relations with a framework character. In order to ensure the smooth relationship between the minor child and the separate parent, the amendment should apply in the ongoing procedures. As of 1 March 2020, the procedure for implementing the Contact Decision was transferred from the former guardianship powers to the judicial authority. It has now been justified to evaluate the experience of the new legislation in force and, in view of the experience of the application of the law, to make minor amendments, clarifications on the rules applicable in court proceedings and on certain non-court proceedings. These amendments clarify the rule of calculating the time limit for the opening of proceedings, strengthen the enforcement of the procedure and provide the enforcement court with stronger means in the event that the requested court voluntarily fails to comply with the enforcement order. The proposal provides the tax authority with a legal basis for direct access to the register of caregivers by amending the Act on the registration of caregivers and preliminary declarations for the purpose of examining the taxable person's ability to process a specific case. Dear House, T/1621 amending certain laws on judicial matters The amendments contained in the legislative proposal No 1 therefore address, on the one hand, the harmonisation provisions and, on the other, the issues raised in the application of the law. I ask the Honourable Parliament to agree with the above objectives to adopt the legislative proposals. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-25-73	Welcome, fellow Members. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Boglárka Elijah, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2022-10-25-74	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/1609 in front of us. Legislative proposal T/1621 amending the laws on the publication of international treaties on judicial cooperation and amending certain laws on judicial matters I do not wish to mention the full extent of the points set out in the draft presented in detail by the rapporteur, and I do not wish to repeat them, but rather to summarise them in a sketchy manner and to confirm what has been said, and rather to draw attention to the importance of the amendments and their spirit. The amendments cover a number of areas of life, as the Secretary of State has said. They are talking about the protection of industrial rights, thus protecting intellectual property, protecting copyright, the functioning of notaries and the procedures they have implemented, thus affecting their responsibilities, fair market behaviour, digitalisation conditions, the legacy procedure and, last but not least, the obligations relating to child maintenance are appropriate, and I think that it is all the way ahead. In addition to the mandatory transposition resulting from accession, a number of amendments to the legislation on international legal obligations are justified by the problems encountered in practice, the legal follow-up, settlement and resolution of life-related needs. All of this, I believe, was prepared by the Ministry of Justice in a well-educated package of legislation, the Ministry of Justice, to which not only is it likeable, but in its name and function we find nothing like it in the shadows of the left. [[Laszlo Sebian-Petrovski's name. Z. Carpathian Daniel: Oh, my God!]] But instead of discussing this, I would like to express my thanks to the staff of the Ministry for the preparation of a thorough, comprehensive and, in my view, detailed proposal. It is important that you know that we see the enormous amount of work that you are doing to prepare this proposal, and that you know that, if these proposals are adopted, we can have a better impact on the lives of many and that we can make such decisions. In addition to the above, let me look briefly at the three elements of the proposal before us and one element of it a little longer. T/1609. and T/1621. The additions and amendments included in the legislative proposals, in particular the provisions on child support and other family support, clearly serve the protection of children and children's aspects. [[13.10]] In this regard, I firmly believe that all adult people, not only here in this House, but also here elected Members, must act with a distinct responsibility and have a distinct responsibility for them. All proposals for the protection of children, I think, should be considered worthy of support, and these points alone could be the basis for the proposal's eligibility. But I would also like to point out that young people are also given special attention to the proposal before us, that they would like to offer them more opportunities and that they should be given more opportunities. I am thinking of the fact that, when determining the replacement order for notaries, it provides for the restriction of the possibility of substitution by retired judges, as the Secretary of State has said. I personally know dozens of young people, both as former state leaders responsible for young people's affairs and as lawyers, for whom this amendment creates a serious opportunity, a serious opportunity to give citizens greater responsibility for their knowledge and experience. Thank you on their behalf, too. Thirdly, in addition to paying attention to young people, the proposal before us also refers to those who have worked their lives with honor. In their case, it intends to ease administrative burdens and tasks for at least five years until the retirement age is reached, but at least until the age of 65, thus simplifying the burden on our older compatriots. Allow me to talk a little bit longer about the points in the bill on which I am convinced that we should take every opportunity that we can offer some facilitations and some even more security on occasion. This area is nothing more than innovation. After all, we are living in a time when, year after year in world politics, we can even say that today almost day after day changes are overcoming and, in some, even more and more cases, completely rejecting the possibility of giving answers to the processes and the challenges that have taken place around us with proven, simple predictions, permanent directions from previous information, or even possible trends. We are therefore living in a time when innovation is therefore growing in importance, and it does not matter what legal environment we strengthen innovative thinking, intellectual performance, and what legal environment we support. Of course, it is important that we pay particular attention to further development and cooperation while promoting and supporting the protective side of intellectual property. Recognizing, finding and, where appropriate, organizing this equilibrium in a legal document, I believe that it is our task, and our responsibility, to us as Members. In the light of the above, I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the legislative proposals before us. Support the protection of children, support the enhancement of the opportunities of young people, support respect for the elderly and support the development of innovation in a secure environment, so that all people, Hungarians, can improve their lives directly or indirectly. The Fidesz fraction supports the legislative proposals before us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-25-75	It is now up to the lead speaker of the DK Group, Mr László Sebian-Petrovsk. I give you the floor, please.
u2022-10-25-76	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State will not be surprised that I will begin as a kind of zero point because we have been this way to each other many times during the negotiation of a similar package of laws, when I said that we can and can support the salad package as rarely as possible from the side of the opposition. The main reason for this, as I said earlier, is that the government is very fond of packing things that are completely incompatible, completely incompatible proposals, and pushing them to Parliament to accept them, that is what they are. He is using the trick of putting in very attractive and good proposals, which make life easier for citizens, and which, on the other hand, we cannot agree with in any respect as opposition representatives. So the political trap is regularly being set by the government that if it is voted by the opposition, it must also vote on the points it does not support politically, if it does not vote, and it does not want citizens to be better in some way. It's exactly the same situation right now, the government has produced the same thing that I understand politically, but I don't like it terribly. But to get into concrete matters, I think the main line in this package of proposals, along with the many, many, many, many incidentals, is that the government is preparing for the economic crisis to have many thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people affected by the economic crisis. In fact, the main line of the amendment is how and how to deal with, for example, how to manage implementation, what to do with evictions, what to do with auctions. So in Hungarian, if the moratorium expires, which is now, how and how it will be possible to proceed even more smoothly, even more, almost cynically, even that is in the proposal, or you can see that the kind of procedure to put people out on the street is working even better, or even more unsettling people in meeting the problem and in difficult financial circumstances, by the government, should be even more smooth, so to speak, because that is what a lot of proposals are about in this package of laws. So the government is preparing that, in the economic situation in which it has taken its toll, yes, as a result of the successive economic policy of the last 12 years, we have reached where we are now, with orbán hyperinflationary, indebtedness and living situations in which hundreds of thousands now cost more to live every day, the government does not actually make it possible for people to make a suggestion here and ask for support on how people will be better, how more money will be, how less milk and bread and eggs will cost, but instead proposes that, by the way, people who are in trouble will be easier to get their apartments, for example, or how procedures can be speeded up with people who are in such a difficult situation. I think this is infinitely cynical, and certainly not an approach to the problem in the interests of the country, but at the same time, we have such a proposal before us. To give you an example: as a positive point, Mr Secretary of State, you have said that you will change and thus increase the calculation method over which your salary can be cut off from someone, so that I can say very simply that your income can be cut off or taken from them. This has indeed been a problem in recent years, because since 2010, for example, we have failed to raise the minimum pension for this government, 12 years has not been enough, so indeed, the frozen level has caused so little money to be left for people that no longer provides their livelihood. This is what the government has changed, and the Secretary of State has said it as a positive thing, while we should not really be talking here about it being okay, then more or less is being taken away from the debtors by the enforcer, but how it could otherwise be done to avoid, for example, the case of that debtor or to face as few debt problems as possible in everyday life. So this example also shows that this government is holding the crisis quite badly, and this bill is a picture of it. [[13.20]] We are not talking about substantial assistance in this package of proposals, which, I repeat, contains a lot of uncoordinated proposals and ideas, but, instead of providing meaningful assistance, we are actually talking about fairer and more uniform implementation rules instead of solving those problems. I have two shorter or easier comments or professional remarks for this entire package of proposals. One is that the government is trying to comply with a lot of harmonisation measures or obligations, but as it does, there are a number of points in this package of laws where it does not think only how its transposition is distorted in the face of Hungarian reality. There are, therefore, professional indications regarding the individual points, we have met such a professional organisation, which understands that there is also an obligation to harmonise EU legislation, and, of course, it is appropriate for us to transpose it into Hungarian law, but it does not agree with the way in which it is done, and I have doubts whether the Ministry has taken into account or even read the signals of the various professional organisations. My very last little personal favorite is that there is also a re-regulation or modification of the phenomenon related to the merger of businesses. The interconnection of the various undertakings must be notified to the Competition Authority. What I would point out is that there is, or has been, a certain threshold above which, in particular, above the annual net turnover, above a certain level, that, if such undertakings were in a merger, this was the one that had to be reported. That, no, this proposal raises this significantly. I'm living with the suspicion of the government of the last 12 years that this is something to do with the acquisition and enrichment of some fidesz oligarch, the very prosperous operation of his companies even during this crisis, so that we are talking about a tailor-made legislation. I am quite certain that within weeks, we will find out who is behind this and who is benefiting from this particular amendment. I am not deluding myself that Mr Secretary of State is going to share this with us now, but obviously this will come out, and we will obviously see further evidence of this, that this law is not really about making it better for citizens, that there are fewer problems in their lives, that the problems that arise will be solved by the government, but that it is about good for the government and those who are close to it. Therefore, of course, this cannot be done, and we cannot support it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-10-25-77	Now, Congressman Imre Vejkey, lead speaker of the KDNP. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2022-10-25-78	Madam President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In connection with this item on the agenda, we are talking about a joint general debate in which, for the first time, the T/1609 on the publication of international treaties on judicial cooperation I would like to talk to you about the bill. The bill is intended to ensure consistency with Act L of 2005 on the procedure for international treaties. It should be pointed out that, by Decree-Law No 14 of 1986, the contract on the civil rights aspects of child abduction in the Hague, on 25 October 1980, and the 2004 CXVI was published. With regard to the Convention on the taking of evidence abroad in civil and commercial matters, published by law, signed in The Hague on 17 March 1970, the bill replaces the inclusion of the declarations of acceptance necessary for the entry into force of the Convention with the States which subsequently acceded to it and includes the adoption of the accession of Georgia, Malta, Nicaragua and Vietnam to the Convention on Evidence. Ladies and Gentlemen, In the context of the joint general debate, the T/1621 on the amendment of certain laws on judicial matters is now under discussion. I would like to say a few words about the bill. Certain intellectual property laws have been amended partly on the basis of practical experience and partly with a view to compliance with European Union law. The amendments shall concern provisions concerning the suspension and suspension of certain procedures, the calculation of periods of protection, the changes in the person applying for registration and the individual procedural time limits. The primary objective of the amendments to the prohibition of unfair market behaviour and restrictions on competition is to bring the digital sector into line with Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on competitive and fair markets 2022/1925. The purpose of the bill is to introduce a new institution of the letter of formal notice, which would provide the GVH with an additional means of contacting potentially infringing undertakings before the competition supervision procedure. The purpose of the letter of formal notice is to enable the GVH to indicate its concerns directly to undertakings without initiating a competition monitoring procedure in the event of a suspected infringement, thereby encouraging undertakings to continue to comply with the law. The amendment to Act V of 2006 on business registers, court proceedings and winding-up transposes the provisions of Directive 2019/1151 of the European Parliament and of the Council applicable from 1 August 2023. LIII of 1994 on judicial enforcement In the future, as a result of the amendment of the Act, only the amount of the child maintenance claim and the civil law claim against the debtor resulting from the offence and established for the benefit of the natural person for the benefit of the victim will be deducted from the payments made by the pension body not on a monthly basis and not on a monthly basis as a result of the amendment of the Act. The amendment also makes all compensation annuities exempt from the prohibition. The amendment also sets out the amount of HUF 60,000 that is exempt from enforcement and increases the limit above which income can be barred without limit. The 1991 XLI on notaries. The amendment of the Act clarifies the rules concerning the replacement of notaries and the circle of notaries as members, as already specified by the Secretary of State. XXXVIII of 2010 on the probate procedure The amendment of law clarifies the role of the office administrator in the recording of the estate inventory in the event that the deceased was a lawyer at the time of his death. XXII of 2022 on certain issues relating to the functioning of the territorial administration and amending certain laws relating to the eleventh amendment of the Fundamental Law. Law 6 provides for the correct definition of the jurisdiction of the judgment boards. The amendment of Act V of 2013 on the Civil Code is made in order to ensure that the relations between the minor child and the separate parent are ensured in a smooth manner, so that the separate parent can be held and held with the necessary official certificates of the child during the period of contact with the child. The 2013 CLXXV on the register of caregivers and preliminary declarations of rights. Amendment of law in order to enable the tax authority to verify the fact that the taxpayer is placed under care in the procedure to determine his procedural capacity in relation to a specific case. CXVIII of 2017 on the rules applicable in judicial civil non-court proceedings and certain non-court proceedings. The amendment to the Act amends the rules of the non-court procedure for the implementation of the Contact Decision by requiring the court to involve the guardianship authority in the second phase of the enforcement procedure, which takes the measures to protect the minor child, such as ordering the child to be protected. [[13.30]] Ladies and Gentlemen, KDNP parliamentary faction supports T/1609. and T/1621. Bills No. 1. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-10-25-79	We now have the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, Mr Sándor Szabó. I give you the floor.
u2022-10-25-80	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, Honourable Members, With regard to this bill, it is important to point out that it amends 21 laws. The proposals are essentially technical in nature and amend procedural rules. However, according to the explanatory statement, this is far from the case, and such salad laws, which are now largely amended by the law on intellectual property and notaries, are almost scheduled. In relation to the former, this is partly understandable, as we have a number of obligations arising from membership of the European Union in the field of intellectual property. However, it is of particular interest that the present proposal seems to seek to remedy a situation which was triggered by an amendment which entered into force in 2011. It would be important to know and it would be good for the government to give proper information as to why it had to wait 11 years when this is so essential. In particular, it is inexhaustible when it can actually be seen that the Hungarian Parliament amends certain laws relating to intellectual property practically every year. With regard to notaries' legislation, we can see a similar frequency in the area of legislation than in the area of intellectual property rights. Here it is important to point out, once again, as a legislative weirdo, that, in view of the public authority of notary activity, it is proposed to clearly define the number of natural persons involved in notary offices as members. The legislative weirdness also lies in the fact that, if the Government considers this to be important and necessary in view of the public authority nature, it has not previously ensured that these amendments are made. I would like to highlight two other important areas of the proposal. One of these areas concerns children's rights. The proposals regulate a number of areas that are essentially related to the rights of the child, such as the international convention on child abduction abroad or children's contact with their parents. (In the notary seat Attila Gelencsér Replaced by Dr. István Tiba.) Unfortunately, the government has not been good and has not been very good at protecting children's rights. The report by the Hintalovon Foundation shows that half of the sexual trafficking victims registered in the European Union in 2015-16 were of Hungarian origin, 647 out of 1310 and 64 percent children. In particular, they are 7.4 percent under the age of 11. In a report this year, the same foundation pointed out further problems, i.e. that more than 100,000 children did not have access to any kind of general medical care locally in 2020. Since 2016, there has been a doubling in the number of unfilled pediatric practices. During the 2020/2021 academic year, ten thousand more freshmen were expected by thousands fewer teachers in schools. 21.7 percent of children are affected by poverty and social exclusion. In 2020, 1,800 children were born whose mother was a child. Church involvement in foster care networks has increased by 1800 percent over the past 12 years. In particular, we also find a number of problems in the context of the right to contact. A number of news has shaken the public this year about how one of the parents abused or, unfortunately, took the life of their child while the child was at his disposal. The protection of children's lives is one of the state's primary obligations, and such tragedies cannot be allowed to occur, which otherwise occur primarily because of bad legal conditions. It is also interesting that the government refuses to ratify the Istanbul Convention in which it would help protect children from abuse because of the use of the word "gender" or "dender". The other issue, which should be addressed in the context of the proposal, concerns judicial enforcement. The proposals concern a number of issues relating to eviction and implementation, which are primarily due to the fulfilment of international obligations. However, it is also necessary to draw attention to a legislative failure. It is incomprehensible why the government is not doing anything to solve the problem when the ominous case is here: State Secretary Pál Völner had to leave last year because he was suspected of receiving regular millions of dollars in order to corruptly influence executive appointments. He's been indicted in the last few days, and the D.A.'s office has asked for eight years in prison. So there is a clearly corrupted system here that inhumanely, often with ridiculous reasons, evicts old people from their homes, while, by the way, the government is not willing to amend the relevant laws in order to solve the problems even when they are otherwise due to be amended. So here's a salad law involving 21 laws, not what's in it on hundreds of pages, more like what's not in it. So I think there's more to work on. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-10-25-81	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. As no two-minute speakers have made themselves known, further speeches are now taking place. In this context, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát. Here you go.
u2022-10-25-82	Madam President, Dear House, There is much to argue about the salad law as a genre, but I find it quite outrageous that the government would streamline the evictions and the implementation process, the result of which has been more than 23,000 evictions in Hungary since 2010. [[Dr. Répássy is shaking Robert's head.]] I'd shake my head, too, Mr. Secretary, if I were you, because I wouldn't be able to get along with the fact that I've contributed to the loss of so many people's homes. But I really hope you can get back off this road. At the same time, let us talk about the level of income involved in implementation. I welcome the fact that the limit under which it is in principle and I stress that it is, in principle, more difficult to touch the Hungarian people's money, but where were you when I submitted the proposal that the income needed to make a minimum living should not be subject to enforcement bans. And I am now calling on you to ensure that the 33 percent or 50 percent or even more of your tricks do not affect your pension and do not affect the amounts required under the minimum wage, literally for a living, for nutrition, for your increased overhead payments. During this time, let us make 10 percent or think of a symbolic percentage, but it is certainly unworthy of a nation state, a state that protects national interests, to allow the funds needed to make a minimum living to be burdened in this way by strange enforcement teams. So I urge you to be much braver and defend the Hungarian people, not on the side of the banks, not the executives, but on the side of the Hungarian people, the customers, the citizens; just as you did not do in the alleged settlement of the foreign exchange loan, do now, break up the EBRD pact, do not negotiate with the Banking Association, do not negotiate with the executives in quarterly quotas, but stand on the side of the Hungarian people. Where, on the other hand, I see that the discourse space between us is a little more subtle, it is a matter of child support. I consider it an extremely important area, and I expect much more courage from you. I have formulated my proposal months ago: if there is any obstacle to a child getting access to the amount that has not been paid under the title of child support, the Hungarian state should advance this, the Hungarian budget should hold up, guaranteeing that the amount used in the interests of the children actually reaches the children, and then the Hungarian state will argue with the non-paying party and, of course, try to obtain it. So I am an absolute partner in this, so that we can even work out the most effective tool system together for the purpose of directing. However, I am very serious about protecting the interests of children, and no child should be in a position to suffer from his development, his daily education and care because of unpaid alimony. Therefore, I call on you to amend the package in such a way that the Hungarian State will advance the outstanding alimony, there must be a guarantee in this system that no one will be able to use it in an abusive manner, and then, if the amounts involved are used in the interests of children, then we can talk about how this can be recovered from the non-payer. Obviously, this will be your job, because it is always part of the pro-government responsibility, but the Hungarian child should not be in a position to suffer from his education and development if he is not paid alimony. I think this proposal could form the basis of a common national minimum. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]] [[13.40]]
u2022-10-25-83	I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an applicant; the general debate is closed. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Mr Secretary of State indicates that he wishes to reply, so I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2022-10-25-84	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, On the one hand, thank you very much for the supporting contributions and, on the other hand, much has been said, which is not part of this bill. Of course, the submission of the bill has given us the opportunity to talk about implementation in general, but I would like to ask you to carefully study the justification of the bill and, in particular, the reasons for the amendment of the implementing law. These do not include any proposals which would make the situation of debtors, or even the situation of those who have been evicted, or include additional facilitations; such proposals will not be put forward by the government. So I think it's either a misunderstanding or I don't know how else to say conspiracy theories. If the government's filing a law on executions, then it looks like some people are going to come up with these conspiracy theories. I can't help you with that, I can't disprove conteos, because it's not my profession, so these conspiracy theories are untrue. I urge you to look at the real content of the bill and vote on it. I will also try to answer their other points in detail at a further stage of the debate. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A rare applause in the benches of Fidesz.]]
u2022-10-25-85	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We have reached the end of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Representative of Jobbik, Mr Zoltán Sas has applied for a post-meeting speech:. The government should not save money by closing police stations. It's an address. I'll give you the floor in five minutes. Here you go.
u2022-10-25-86	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Dear fellow Members, Dear House, Over the past few days, I've received several public signals that police stations have been closed in Baranya County. There were two things I could do. One is that I have obviously asked Hungary's Minister of Interior with a written question to inform me of what really happened in this case, and the other is that I personally visited Baranya County to see that these precincts were indeed closed, and I must say to you that, unfortunately, Villány, Harkány and Beremend had a lock on the doors of the police stations. According to our values, the lock should not be on the door of the police station, but on the cell of final convicted offenders who, for example, have committed human trafficking in the area. We would very much like to know whether this is a national phenomenon or just a local problem, because it doesn't matter at all how we deal with this issue, not even because of the reasons why these precincts are closed down. Of course, there may be professional reasons that I cannot personally see in the current security and public security environment, but there may also be reasons why, for example, the Ministry of Interior cannot issue the minimum number of police required for the operation of the police station, there are not enough policemen. This is contradicted by government communication, which constantly promotes that there is no police shortage in Hungary. There may also be economic reasons why there is simply no money to run these precincts. If that is true, then perhaps this is the saddest, and we should draw the government's attention to ensuring that the government does not save on the safety of Hungarian people. The closure of a police station is primarily sad, and unfortunately there are various consequences. Such a consequence may be that, in the area where the permanent police presence disappears, where the police station ceases to exist, it is clear that public security will deteriorate. And that's not in any of our best interests. Where there is a policeman, where honest Hungarian people can live their daily lives with a permanent police presence near their home, even in the form of a police station, there is a greater sense of security for people, and if this is eliminated, the subjective sense of security of people, citizens, will also deteriorate. This problem is particularly worrying that Villány, Harkány and Beremend are near the border section of the border area, in particular near the southern border section, where we know we can hear that there has been a record-breaking rise in illegal migration activity on a daily basis, and we must say that 1572 cases of smuggling have been initiated yesterday. What we need to know is that in Hungary's history, there has never been a year in which such a great number occurred. If police stations are closed, if the public lighting is turned off, if a curfew is introduced, which is also envisaged by the pro-government mayor of the Komló city in the region, I must say that the Hungarian countryside will be turned off as a hotbed for crime, and we must not let that happen. Let us not let the cost of failed government policy be borne by the security of Hungarians and Hungarians. Please don't let us shut down our precincts. Thank you very much, Madam President.
u2022-10-25-87	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed.
