u2022-08-08-0	[[Some of the Members in the Chamber stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] I warmly welcome my fellow Members and welcome all those who are monitoring our work today. The 6th Special Meeting of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Dear Parliament, I declare 47 Members of the Parliament Act 35. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament initiated the convening of an extraordinary meeting of the XIII. T/784 concerning the non-compliance of certain provisions of Law No. Legislative proposal H/742 on the national programme to finance the thermal insulation of residential buildings Proposal for a Decision No 745 on certain measures to eliminate the increase in Hungarian household costs Proposal for a Decision No 758 on combating the serious food crisis, curbing food price increases and creating domestic food safety Proposal for a Decision No 766 on the introduction of a climate lease. 779 on the creation of a VAT exemption for certain products and services in order to help Hungarian families make a living. In order to discuss a proposal for a decision. The Extraordinary Meeting was convened by the Speaker of Parliament as requested today. I would like to inform you that in a letter to Mr Kövér László, the leaders of the governing factions have announced that the representatives of Fidesz and KDNP are not taking part in today's meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, The speeches before the agenda will now take place. Mr Máté Kanász-Nagy applied for a pre-meeting speech from the LMP Group. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-08-08-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Indeed, first of all, we must establish that Fidesz-KDNP is not here, and that no representative of the government is here. Well, that is exactly how seriously they take the problems of the Hungarian people, the Hungarian society, even though we would have plenty of work and work to do, we would have plenty to argue about, because we are in the middle of the energy crisis and the climate crisis, and we should act immediately. That is why we opposition parties have brought here our proposals on how to alleviate this crisis. However, in the midst of the energy and climate crisis, there was an outrageous incident last week that cannot be passed. Last week, a government decree was issued which practically greatly facilitates logging and deforestation in Hungary. We knew that for Fidesz-KDNP, for the Hungarian government, environmental protection, nature protection as such is an unpleasant factor limiting investment and profit, but what is really happening now is that the destruction of nature and the destruction of our environment can take place in another phase. Apart from the Fidesz government, there may not be a cabinet across the European Union that would start deforestation in the middle of the climate crisis, drought and water scarcity, and they do so without any way to mitigate the consequences of the energy crisis, which should have been prepared by the Hungarian government in the last 12 years. The LMP calls for green rotation and green solutions instead of further environmental degradation and deforestation, which I would like to talk about briefly. In five points we summarized the starting steps of the green turn, which would be necessary in Hungary. Our first point of action is that Paks II investment, which is never ready and never recovered, should be stopped immediately, the contract, all forints that would be spent on Paks II investment in the future, should be used to support renewable energy sources. Our second proposal for action is to remove all unnecessary, illogical restrictions on the installation or installation of renewable energies in Hungary; here we are talking primarily about wind energy. It was also quite amazing to have to argue between the walls of Parliament about the wind blowing in Hungary, and when we are living in the period of the energy crisis, when it is becoming more and more difficult and expensive to obtain energy, it is completely nonsense and illogical that wind power plants cannot be newly installed in Hungary. This prohibition must therefore be lifted. Our third proposal concerns the launch of a building insulation programme. Yes, in Hungary, 100,000 residential properties should be isolated every year. Insulation would mean a real reduction in costs, insulation would be a real climate protection and create crisis-resistant, lasting jobs for the SME sector in particular. If we could, and by the way, in this cycle we had the opportunity to isolate 650 thousand residential properties, it would avoid the emission of 420 thousand tons of CO2 in a few years, and that would also mean saving 2 billion cubic metres of gas. This would also be the real answer to the energy crisis. Our fourth point is that the government should support Hungarian families and households, for example, by installing solar panels, and also by providing support without self-reliance, so that those most in need or those on average income can benefit from these subsidies. Last but not least, our fifth point is the introduction of a climate lease, and we have tabled this proposal once again on the agenda of this meeting. The essence of this is that the means of transport of MÁV, Volán and BKV could be used for 5 thousand HUF in Hungary. It must be clearly said that public transport must be supported, this is a climate friendly solution, and this would also have immediate social importance, as it would make transport even cheaper for tens of thousands of families in Hungary. So we demand that the government withdraws the decree of the destruction of nature, making our future unpredictable. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] and immediately, immediately start green solutions and green rotations. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause from the opposition ranks.]]
u2022-08-08-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Sándor Berki has also applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[13.10]]
u2022-08-08-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The government's political flaws, his crimes will always come back to the public sooner or later. This is a rule that Hungarians will learn for the longest time under the government of Viktor Orbán. At the same time, the consequences of the mistakes of the past years, the Orbán package, a series of brutal restrictions that will increase the cost of living and take away from millions of people the security of life and the predictability of everyday life. The government is trying to make it look like a disaster, a collusion of external circumstances, but war inflation, Brussels' suicide sanctions policy and other habonyi wordflowers are just trying to cover up the cold reality. Viktor Orbán and all the really serious strategic decisions of Fidesz were wrong, and now they are making us pay the price for these mistakes by cutting inflation, supply uncertainty, fatal weakening of the forint, and the complete loss of credit of Hungarian political leadership with further serious consequences. It is now clear that it was a strategic mistake to leave Hungary's almost complete energy supply to one of Europe's most unreliable regimes, Russia. It was a mistake to put an end to the state food reserve and to re-configurate the state land assets for the food supply of the country to Fidesz buddies, to deny the climate crisis for 12 years and to fail to prepare. The money taken from the families was supposed to be spent on energy modernisation of institutions, but only allegedly. If they did, they wouldn't have to think about how to turn the school buildings into wood burning. It would be enough to turn on the heat pump or solar energy system. It was a mistake to ban the construction of wind power plants, to impose penalty taxes on solar panels and heat pumps. The family's energy bill could now be 50 percent lower if, as Fidesz promised in 2010, the thermal insulation of all residential houses had now taken place. Unreachable promises are also a victim of a reduction in the cost of the rent. These mistakes did not come from nothing, nor can it be said that no one had told us about them. The Dialogue warned us in time, with Parliament's proposals for resolutions, legislative proposals and amendments, we tried to derail the government from the wrong direction. In order to prevent the immediate food crisis, we have tabled a proposal for a decision, called for a reduction of VAT on basic foods to 5%, the restoration of state food conservation and the immediate rethink of the system of irrigation and water management as a whole. We have demanded and continue to demand the immediate abolition of wind power bans and solar and heat pump taxes. These proposals not only serve sustainability but also immediately contribute to reducing people's daily spending. And we are still at the point that the Orbán government is choosing new problems and new bad solutions instead of correcting its own mistakes, when it introduces panic measures such as increasing overhead or limiting fuel price caps without preparation, consultation and weighing. You do not think of those who are most affected by these impromptu decisions. We have to tell them what's gonna happen to the paramedics, how are they gonna pay for the increased fuel price? What about the most vulnerable people who can buy residential energy only in a prepaid system? Why do they need to be heavily exposed to multiple expenses? Do we have to warn you that in 600,000 households that affect 1.8 million Hungarians, do they not heat with a wired energy carrier? Where will fuel be of sufficient quality and affordable price? But typically such an irresponsible, sinful decision is also to allow forest slashes. The consequence will already be the destruction of a declining Hungarian forest population due to climate change, not the increase in energy security. But the forests, if they leave them alone, will also stop warming and dehydration. They're making us pay more for food. Food inflation is already approaching 40 percent, the converted kata and the energy and fuel prices already offered to businesses at market prices appear in almost all products and services. Life is expensive every day because of the government's missteps. Here we are now, early August 2022. We're at a crossroads. The choice is for the government, but the bill, as always, is on the people, and to the end I thank my fellow Members for their participation in the meeting. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
u2022-08-08-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr László Toroczkai, Head of the Group of Mi Hazank, applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2022-08-08-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I came to this extraordinary meeting today, and there are two reasons for this, one of which is that Hungary is in so much trouble that something has to be done. It would now be good for the Members of Parliament and the parties in this Parliament to start working on how we can get Hungary in order. That's why I left. At the same time, today is obviously another clown, on the one hand, because we see Fidesz boycotting him, doing the same thing you do, like in a kindergarten, boycotting the seats. That's not why we get paid, it's to do our job, to work. On the other hand, it is a joke because the fact that Hungary is in such huge trouble is the result of the past 30 years, and I am going further: it is the result of the failed and ruined economic policy of the past decades. We have to talk about the 27 percent VAT today, and I think we will hear a few sentences about it here today, because we do have worldwide VAT and Hungary stands out in relation to the tax burden. But in 2012, it was the Orbán government that raised the VAT to 27 percent. It is unacceptable when such high electricity accounts are paid for, for example, by Hungarians because they include 27 percent VAT and very high system charges, which are also high worldwide. But before 2012, what was the VAT? So, say, during the Gyurcsány government, what was the VAT in 2010? Do you remember him? Was that okay? [[Szabó Timea: In 2010 it was no longer Gyurcsány!]] Twenty-five percent VAT, is that okay? Don't you have any responsibility for getting here? In 1973, what was the government debt in Hungary, do you remember? Let's say the DKs, the MSZs, remember their predecessors, what their economic policy was like? From two billion dollars to a change of system [[Intercoms. The president's ringing the bell. Gergely Harvestó: How did they stand in the year 45? Are you gonna talk about that?]] How big did it grow? Hungary's government debt has increased to $20 billion because of your predecessor party. [[Dóra Dúró intervenes.]] So that's where we started. [[Constant interruptions.]] That's what you've ruined for me by screaming, hurting the truth, finally getting it in your eyes, isn't that what the Fidesz government has made worse in the last 12 years. So how did the Orbán government take over, say, from you? [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: From me?!]] Yes, how did you take over this country in 2010? How was the government debt? Give me a number because I collected it on purpose. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Thank you very, very much.]] Do you remember how much the government debt was? Well, that sovereign debt has been increased by the government. So Hungary has come here constantly because of your change management. So because so far Fidesz and you, so we've only learned how to steer the balliberal side, there hasn't been a third way. But we're finally here because I think it's anyone with you. [[Gergely Harvestó: As in, in 44!]] cooperate in any form, want to run together, on a list [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I'm not on the Fidesz election list!]] For example, Jobbik will be a part of this messed-up, failed economic policy and Hungary has come here because of you and Fidesz. So let's get this straight. The question is, what can we do? The first thing we can do is change this economic policy. How can I change economic policy to say something else that they did the same way as Fidesz? You have always supported multinationals, always global large companies, and have protected them instead of trying to protect Hungarian entrepreneurs, such as the SME sector or Hungarian workers. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] You didn't do this, and you don't do it now when there's such a big problem! It's typical that they don't explain the truth when we're standing next to the caterers. [[Gergely Harvesto: Where were you standing? We were there!]] You didn't tell me that, by the way, after it was closed... We were at Kossuth Square, we were there when you asked, because the viewers might not hear it, but Mr. Arató asked where we were. Well, we were there when the Margaret Bridge was closed, when Momentum, your friends, settled on protesting civilians, destroying this demonstration. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I'm grinding a book.]] He didn't do what our country Movement did, because the moment you showed up there, who are just as wrong in this situation today, we announced a national demonstration, I've been in the country for a week now, and we protested the restrictions at demonstrations organized by our country movement. That would have been your job. [[13.20]] So either they're gonna accept it, and they're gonna try to work with us on it. [[An uproar on the opposition side.]] To get Hungary back on its feet. We have it, we put our proposals on the government's table; I gave an ultimatum to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, who is not here, we know that he is on vacation, so we left today completely unnecessary. We are waiting until 1 September for the government to finally have global large companies pay the price for the failed political measures, or to continue to make the Hungarian population pay. If the government follows our proposals, there is no reason to make us appear, and to participate in such clowns and charades. [[Szabó Timea: It's over!]] The question is, you guys are gonna start working, too. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Or they're gonna keep trying to make a fuss and not talk about the truth. Thank you. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-08-08-6	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Member Ms Agnes Kunhalmi of the MSZP Group has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go.
u2022-08-08-7	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to start by saying I'm sorry the Fidesz isn't here, but the Fidesz satellite team is here. [[A statement from the opposition: That's right! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Like this, like this! It's a rare applause on the opposition side.]] However, I would like to say that Viktor Orbán is not here, and he would find it difficult to accept it, and they do not like to hear the Fidesz Members and the KDNP Members say that, indeed, they did not speak the truth during the elections, and in many respects they did not win the election with what they said; they said that they would retain the reduction of the rent, that the opposition, which is sitting here, will, by the way, eliminate it. They said there wasn't going to be a tax increase, but changing the kata means a tax increase. For years, Hungarian families have been given gas more expensively than the world market price has to be told to Hungarian society again and again. And I will not hide it under the wall while I live, I will tell you, not only on behalf of the MSZP, but also on behalf of the opposition, that they lied orbitally about the war, because the opposition voted in favour of Viktor Orbán's declaration of peace, which is about being left out, yet the entire opposition was told that we wanted this country to go to war. So anyone who wins the election with such lies, at least in my eyes, politically, morally failed. But not only in my eyes, but also in the eyes of the entire opposition electoral camp. Let us start by saying that, according to the MSZP, there is simply no need for a price increase now, it is unnecessary. On the one hand, electricity is unnecessary because Paks could supply the entire population with a current of HUF 12; on the other hand, the price increase is unnecessary because Péter Szijjártó and Viktor Orbán said that the Gazprom contract ensures that we do not have to increase the price of residential gas, we can separate ourselves from the fluctuations on the world market. I'm asking why Viktor Orbán has been on Putin's back for the past 12 years if he couldn't handle it. And if he could get it done, there's no need to touch the cost reduction right now. The current livelihood and energy crisis really shows the consequences of the government's neglect of modernising residential buildings over the past 12 years, the abolition of the previous panel insulation programme, which was a successful programme during the previous socialist governments, and although Fidesz has been constantly expressing the success of rural and family policy, it has not done anything to modernise the heating of family houses, such as certain Kádár cubes, even though the European Union would have paid for it in the last 12 years. The lack of energy modernisation has caused and continues to cause serious damage to Hungarian families in two respects. On the one hand, it forces families to consume too much energy, because of poor insulation, poor windows, and doors, many people are heating the street, but in their apartment it is still not hot enough, and this has prevented the reduction of the overhead costs, despite the so-called reduction. It is no coincidence that in the last 10 to 12 years the lack of modernization has contributed, for example, to an outstandingly high proportion of 13.9 percent of residents with public utility debts. The elimination of the reduction in overhead costs, doubling the price of electricity beyond average consumption, but increasing the price of gas more than seven times would require government support now, and Hungarian families will not be able to simply pay the increased overhead. Annex XVIII to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended as follows: in the district, in my own constituency, not only the large family members who will receive a discount, but they will remain in the multigenerational family houses or widows, the old women or gentlemen who remain in the Kádár dice will not be able to pay for it. [[Forefather Novak: Get away from Kádár, I beg you!]] There must be action, and action must be taken immediately, because fear of high rents has already appeared, which immediately ringed into the housing market. According to the World Economy press product, according to their own survey, many people already want to get rid of large-scale, ageless family homes because of the dramatically rising heating bills, almost 40 percent of the sellers of the houses said that they have no money to modernise and pay high rent at the same time. So the MSZP proposes that the government immediately begin thermal insulation of homes and residential buildings, upgrading of windows and replacing them, which is financed without self-esteem with non-refundable budget support. This should be covered primarily by EU funds, which should be complemented by domestic budgetary resources. Finally, the MSZP believes that the energy security and long-term, affordable, cheap rent of Hungarian families would be the insulation of homes and residential buildings, the immediate replacement of windows. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-08-08-8	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. From the Momentum Group, Mr Ferenc Gelencsér Group leader applied for a speech before the agenda. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor, please.
u2022-08-08-9	Mr. Speaker, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Missing Members of the Fidesz Group, [[With his hand to the benches of pro-government representatives:]] I hope the camera shows this. Today is a working day, the official meeting of Parliament, called to correct the unthinkable actions of the governing party that make the lives of hundreds of thousands of Hungarians difficult, including the new Catalaw. It's work day, yet there are empty benches across the street from me. The average Hungarian comes to work at 8:00 a.m., and I see that the pro-government representatives didn't make it to 2:30 this afternoon, so I'd be surprised if they could find their job at 3:00 p.m. I guess they'll take their paycheck. The representatives of the ruling party are not at work on the threshold of the economic crisis and social disaster facing our country, they are not working to eliminate the threat facing the nation. I quote the faction leader Máté Kocsis: Hungarian families in Europe are protected by unique measures, and this is a drastic rise in energy prices. Indeed, the chaos that the government has done to the Hungarian economy in recent months and years is unique: less than a month ago, hundreds of thousands of small Hungarian entrepreneurs have ruined their livelihoods with the new catapult law; almost every family's lives are made more difficult by an unthinkable, drastic increase in fees; in recent years they have consciously weakened the forint; and they are not willing to abide by the very clear rules and bring home the EU funds due to Hungarians. They talk about the protection of Hungarian families, but they act against it. Not a day goes by without talking about the protection of Hungarian families, but when the opportunity comes, the benches are ringing against me. It's a shame! They are not even willing to honor Hungarian small entrepreneurs and their families by visiting their workplace at 2:30 p.m. and listening to the people's complaints. Where are the Fidesz congressmen? You can't even look your own constituents in the eye? Where are the members of the government responsible for the economic situation? Are you reconvening at some luxury restaurant with one of the Prime Minister's stooges, as you did when you signed the Cata Code? Where are the Fidesz individual representatives? Have you been to your constituency recently? Do you know how much the rent will cost? Do the government individual representatives know how many small businesses in their constituency are ruined in the fall? Do you know how many people won't be able to buy food because of the high prices? Are the government representatives even interested in these questions? What is the job of pro-government representatives, if not to listen to their own voters and make important government decisions for the good of the country? Of course, we know what they really think of our fellow countrymen, we know what they think of the top, to quote Szilárd Németh, looking down from a bird's perspective at Hungarian society. We know how you feel about desperate Hungarian small entrepreneurs, that they are all tax frauds who do not deserve any help. In fact, it has been said that you believe that those who protest for their livelihood are junkies. We know what you think of those who will have a higher salary than their salary or pension in the autumn, because the Prime Minister openly said: "He who cannot pay his bills, according to the Prime Minister of Hungary, owes it only to himself, because he does not make enough money after he has increased his salary and his ministers' salary. That is what the Prime Minister of Hungary thinks today, and that is what every Fidesz Member and member of government who does not attend this meeting today thinks. [[13.30]] They say the pensioner should go back to work if he can't pay for the heating of his poorly insulated home. They say that both the father and the mother should take second or third jobs and work their asses off to get something to heat in the winter. They tell students not to go to college, because the rents and college fees are skyrocketing; do not study, but rather stand next to the tape. And they're telling me that the small businessman should go abroad to earn money, because he's not welcome here. Any pro-government representative who, by his absence, left the entire Hungarian society before the upcoming social disaster, should be ashamed of himself. But even if they hide, they can't escape responsibility and accountability. Sooner or later, all Hungarians realize that energy and food prices have increased to several times that they actually pay the price for bad governance and Fidesz campaign lies. And they'll remember that the government did nothing for them. Hungarian small entrepreneurs will remember; they will remember Hungarian businesses ruining due to double petrol prices; they will remember the fathers and mothers before school starts; they will remember the heating in the biggest winter cold; and we will all remember the symbol of their governance: in moments before the social disaster, the empty, converging fidesz benches. Thank you. [[A big round of applause in the benches of Momentum, DK, Jobbik, MSZP, Dialogue and LMP.]]
u2022-08-08-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Ladies and gentlemen, From the Jobbik Group, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-08-08-11	Mr President, Dear House, We have looked at the representatives of Fidesz-KDNP with some distance so far, when they talked about the protection of families after 23,000 assisted evictions, but now we see that even demographic data, after the real estate and rent prices have been dropped, show that what Fidesz planned for family policy has not, to say the least, been successful, and indeed, very, very badly. However, it is quite stomach-stricken, which was found in the last few weeks that in the upcoming crisis, in the crisis of families, this government is winning, if you will, it will generate extra profit; an extra profit that should be left with families. That is why we have made the four proposals on the VAT-Front, each of which could make life easier for families by hundreds of billions, and which, if it stays that way, as it is now, the Orbán government will buy an unjustified extra profit at the expense of family deprivation. In this spirit, we suggested that the VAT content of the bills should be zeroed, and that the Orbán government should not put in the pocket any additional revenue on the possibility of increasing to a multiple of the amount of largely marketised bills. The system usage fee is also annoying, but even more so, the Orbán government is trying to pocket a hundred billion plus under the heading of general sales tax. Leave it with the people. For years, it has been irritating to reduce the VAT content of basic foods, to push them and to delay them. Therefore, it would be time for us to reach an agreement at least in terms of basic food before a emerging social cataclysm, to temporarily ease the lives of Hungarian families with a zero percent key, and with the crisis gone, we can argue about a 5% final key. Let this be a professional debate, but now families deserve help. What is inexplicable and undisputed, however, is the VAT of children's education articles. Baby food, diapers and children's clothing are the most brutal in Europe, while we are now able to show European countries in a much luckier economic situation, where, for example, children's clothing does not have to pay VAT or the food for children is essentially VAT-free. What we see here is that this is not about the inexhaustible items of the budget; it is quite simply against the basic philosophy of the Orbán government to admit that it was wrong here; and it was about a year and a half ago that the amount of the family allowance that I had not overwhelmed was lower than that paid to the budget by the head of an ordinary family raising a child in the form of VAT. We do not hide that we would also increase the family allowance; not unconditionally: on a family card, at least double, but on basic foods and child-rearing articles, this raised amount could always be spent. However, it is outrageous and nonsense that, in the form of VAT, the same affected families already pay more into the budget statistically and on average than they receive from it. Fourthly, it is clear that even after the firewood, the government of Hungary should not collect VAT, and when we talk about it, the government choir and its auxiliary media staff typically say that it is good, but how could the budget maintain this many, many economic wonders, that if its VAT revenues were to become eroded, they would decrease. I would like to reassure everyone: we do not want to take the tax revenues collected so far in quotes for the benefit of Hungarian families. We looked at how much extra the Orbán government would like to collect from one year to another, from this year to the next, and we found that already in the first half of this year, 800 billion more VAT revenues were added than they were planning to collect from the Hungarian people. If you like, more than the total cost of the personal income tax refund has already been recovered from the same families concerned. So this is where the mask falls off the fidesz family policy. And if you look at what they are planning next year, they want to collect more VAT from the Hungarians than they did in the period before the crisis. We're not ambitious. We didn't want this whole 2,000 billion! What if he went to Hungarian families? Skandalum. We would like only a part of this, but with these four factors, the tax relief of bills, the de-VAT reduction of basic foods, child-rearing articles and the reduction of the VAT content of firewood to zero, some of the additional government tax revenues could already be put in a much easier, more sustainable position for Hungarian families. We also see that we are dressed like that every time, in the middle of summer and in winter at work, working. It is quite amazing that you are in the middle of a crisis, who does not think so, but at least then you will receive our proposals to protect families! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik, DK, Momentum, Dialogue, MSZP and LMP.]]
u2022-08-08-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! Member Gergely Arató has applied for a speech from the DK Group before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2022-08-08-13	Dear House, If we look through the meeting room today, we can see how this country is governed. The fact that neither the Prime Minister nor the 14 ministers nor the 70 State Secretarys were well understood at this meeting; none of the 70 State Secretarys-General; that none of the 135 pro-government Members except the notary and the President were here; that, let us say, the President of the Republic did not think it important to pay his respects, shows that Fidesz cannot be expected by the country. Fidesz doesn't protect the country, and it doesn't protect the citizens of this country. [[Forebod Novak: Where were you in the inaugural session? Intercoms.]] Of course, I suppose it is difficult to leave the Adriatic yachts at this time, especially when the motorboat is broken, the hunting house with EU money, the sea, the foreign holiday. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] But right now, the country needs its leaders. Because while they are on holiday, most of the Hungarian citizens are terrified of autumn, brutal bills, new price increases, the freeing forint exchange rate, watching austerity and tax increases. Now, when the country is struck at the same time by the economic disaster, the social disaster and the climate disaster, not coming to the regular assembly of Parliament, it is not just a blow to democracy and voters' faces, more than that: desertion, betrayal, irresponsibleness! [[Mr. Novak intervenes.]] Now, when we stand here, we see that Hungary does not have a responsible government. But you have a responsible opposition. That's why we initiated today's meeting. In order to say that we are determined to protect the citizens of this country, we are determined to take care of those who have been betrayed and abandoned by Fidesz. That's why the Democratic Coalition says we're getting ready. After the moral, political and economic failure of Fidesz, we are prepared to expect families, pensioners, workers, educators, nurses, social workers, couriers, farmers, policemen, firefighters who are now in an impossible situation; and I could continue for a long time. For this reason, in order to protect families, the Democratic Coalition has tabled a proposal for a resolution, in which we are initiating the withdrawal of the rules on brutal overhead increases and negotiations with the social partners are to begin with merit in order to create a sustainable, economically sustainable and fair reduction of the rent. Because it is outrageous that the price of gas has been increased seven times in a few weeks to one of Europe's highest gas prices in Hungary and double the price of electricity without any prior consultation, assessment of the effects and preparation time! Families are now terrified of what heat they can get away with in which room they can get a little colder; pensioners are thinking about heating, eating, or replacing their medicine during the winter. [[At least you gave me the tear gas for free!]] Only foolish and devastating ideas come to the mind of the government, such as deforestation, which would add to the social and economic disaster, even with an environmental disaster. [[13.40]] As bad as it is, three things have not changed: the secrecy, arrogance and lies of the Fidesz. The secrecy continues. We don't know how much the Hungarian Electricity Industries buys electricity, and we don't know how much we buy Russian gas in secret Russian gas contracts. The government said it was very cheap. If we are the most expensive or one of the most expensive gas in Europe, then the question is who is looking for it, who is looking for people's misery. If electricity can be obtained cheaply and it's expensive, then the question is who's looking for it, who's looking for people's misery and poverty. The arrogance hasn't changed either. As a modern Marie Antoinette, the Prime Minister says that whoever has a high bill should make more money, and the on-call secretary of state ridiculed the European Union two days before the announcement for proposing sound energy savings in the crisis. Of course, on a five-million-dollar prime minister's salary, three-and-a-half million citizens... citizens? That would be nice, with a three-and-a-half-million-dollar Secretary of State salary, you don't have to worry about the bills. And so will the lies. We remember that in the entire campaign we have heard and are listening to the fact that Fidesz protects Hungarian people, protects the reduction of the rent. Turns out none of this is true. Viktor Orbán and Fidesz will not protect anyone or anything other than their own property and power. The Orbáns have pushed our country into an economic, social and environmental crisis. Fidesz cannot protect Hungarian citizens, the country. This will be the task of today's opposition. Anyone who gives up their most important political commitment has failed politically. We're getting ready. [[Applause on the opposition side Ancient Novák: Is Gyurcsány in prison or where? Noise, interruptions on the opposition side.]]
u2022-08-08-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to inform you that there has been a motion for the waiver of immunity from the immunity of our fellow Members, Anna Oros, Miklós Hajnal and Endre Tóth on 19 July 2022 26.Bpk.655/2022/7. I declare that the Court of Justice of Kecskemét has brought a private charge of defamation. I would also like to inform my fellow Members that a motion to suspend the immunity of our better Member Peter James was also received on 21 July 2022 22.Bpk.759/2022/8. I'm a member of the Miskolc District Court on a private charge of defamation. The President of the Parliament has issued the motions for examination to the Committee on immunity. Dear House, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] This is the majority of those present, but it is apparent that Parliament is not a quorum. I announce that Máté Kocsis [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Where is he?]] and by letter István Simicskó, the leaders of the group, initiated a repetition of the vote using a ballot counting machine. [[Szabó Timea: Is the letter from the Maldives?]] In accordance with the motion, I am now asking the Honourable Parliament to accept the proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: I declare that with 47 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention, the Parliament is not entitled to a resolution. Dear Parliament, On the basis of written information from the Fidesz and KDNP faction leaders and prior announcements concerning the absence of additional representatives, I do not see the possibility to restore the quorum today. Based on this, the House Rules of Decision 14. In accordance with paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, I shall establish the list of missing representatives. In the absence of an agreed agenda, no items on the agenda may be discussed and no comments after the agenda shall be taken. I would like to inform you that the date of the next Parliament meeting will be notified in writing later. The meeting's closed. I wish you all a good holiday, a good rest, a rest for the fall! Thank you very much for your appearance.
