u2022-07-11-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 1st day of the 4th extraordinary session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to everyone who's been monitoring our work. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Government is the 35th Parliamentary Act. On 11 July 2022, pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament initiated the convening of an extraordinary meeting. The letter and its attachment were found on the website. Here are the comments before the agenda. First, I give the floor to Mr László Keresztes Lóránt.
u2022-07-11-1	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, For a long time, the issues determining the Hungarian public's speech have been: water scarcity, drought, low water levels, low water levels in our watercourses, and, unfortunately, the dehydration of smaller watercourses, and shocks the public in recent times, the situation of our lakes, the water level of our lakes and, indeed, in many cases, the dehydration of smaller lakes. As a result of these shocking phenomena, I believe that there can no longer be any doubt about the impact of climate change on us, and indeed we must also be faced with the serious responsibility of either the present government or the previous governments for not taking meaningful preparatory action in this situation. In my speech today, before the agenda, I will talk about the waters, but in a slightly different approach, and I would like to respond to the topicalities of recent weeks, past days, and specifically to the statements made by Minister János Lázár over the past period and last week. Our great lakes are a wonderful natural treasure, a natural value, but they are also part of our national pride, among our most important national values; I can think of either Lake Balaton or Lake Fertő here. It can be seen that these large lakes are also at great risk, and one of the sources of these dangers is related to what I have already talked about, i.e. climate change, falling precipitation, precipitation distribution. But the other part of the danger is, indeed, the greedy and unscrupulous economic operators, who think that they can do anything, feel, and experience, that they are above the law and can do practically everything, and that in many cases they are given concrete government support and government authority. And we can see that there are cases where reality is faced, economic constraints are faced, and then these political and economic decisions are overwritten from a momentary economic interest, decisions where, by the way, the real public interest, national interests have never been given a role, where Community interests are ignored, and where environmental aspects have indeed been left out. In recent weeks, we have heard from János Lázár some of these strange statements, which we can say is surprising, suggesting that he wants to make some changes in government policy. We do not know whether this is just about the plans of János Lázár, or whether this is a government change, so we can say that some of these statements can be considered somewhat encouraging from this point of view, but it is important to find out what government intentions are behind these statements; especially John Lázár spoke about the amendment of the regulatory framework for priority government or priority national investment. But in order to see how much these statements actually weigh, it is important to see what is the situation in Hungary today, so what is the Hungarian reality today. We can see that János Lázár was asked about investments, investments in environmental destruction in Balaton, and at that time he was talking about legal protection, legal regulations, even though he knows that when such an investment is launched, he places these investments outside the law, puts them above the law, and the argument is that there is some kind of legal protection in the case of Lake Balaton. But it can be seen that today in Hungary an economic operator can do so and I am thinking here about the investment of Club Aliga, that, despite an agreement previously signed and negotiated with the municipality, it excludes all public functions, it does not give them the opportunity to build public areas, promenades, free beaches, even though there is a valid agreement, because you have given them legal authorisation to do so. You can do that, in violation of all construction regulations, they decide to install 80 percent or build 20-22 meter building monsters, but unfortunately, today in Hungary, the government office is ready to grant environmental permission for a specific environmental-destructive, harsh intervention. We know that the high shores of Balaton, such as the High Coast of Alga, are part of an extremely valuable formation, a formation formed millions of years ago, and here it was granted permission by the Government Office to destroy this wonderful, unique natural formation and otherwise the formation which is part of our national pride. In order to enable the investor to create and sell larger areas, they allowed 210,000 cubic metres of land to be moved in 700 metres length, a 10-20 metres cut back on the walls, which would be a huge environmental destruction, and a complete and definitive change in the sight of Lake Balaton or the view of Lake Balaton towards Lake Balaton, and the white shores of Aliga would disappear permanently. This is quite amazing, so my questions really refer to the fact that we understood the words of János Lázár, that they would go against these outrageous plans for environmental destruction, override this unsustainable practice by making these economic operators superior to the laws by investing in this way. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and save the high shore of Balaton, save the High Coast of Alga, and stop this specific investment for the benefit of local communities. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the opposition side.]]
u2022-07-11-2	I give the floor to Secretary Nándor Csepreghy.
u2022-07-11-3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, thank you very much for your concern. Allow me, in part, to repeat the Minister's words last week, which concerned it, and, by definition, not only as a Member of Parliament, but as a responsible minister of the Government, that the Government is planning to present a framework law on the Hungarian state's investment order to Parliament this autumn session, which will be discussed and discussed in advance by all parliamentary groups. With regard to investments involving natural resources, allow me to draw your attention to the need to reconcile two aspects here in any case and to ensure the uniform functioning of the two aspects. One of them is that the preservation of natural resources and its full use and accessibility must be guaranteed. The other aspect is that Hungarian people have the opportunity to access the lakes that you mentioned, or any other natural treasure, and only investments that guarantee the integrity of this right can be made. Therefore, in the case of Lake Balaton, as stated by the Constitutional Court, all aspects relating to the public interest must be enforced, so accessibility must be ensured. [[13.10]] In connection with the investment in Balatonvilágos, which you have just mentioned, we have also consulted with the Member, Mr Witzmann, who is a Member of Parliament in the region, who has also informed us, among other things, that the investment has not yet started. The government will ask the investor here, also in this forum, in other forums, to do what will be mandatory for all investors in the future, if the Parliament accepts this draft law so as not to invest in the interests of local communities, seeking the views of local communities and in contrast to the interests and opinions of local communities. So the new framework law will guarantee that whatever investment is made in any area related to nature conservation, it will only happen if the opinion of the local and democratic local community is called upon to do so, its aspects will be accepted, and national treasures will not be damaged either in their standing or in their accessibility. So I think that this could be a reassuring regulation, which I would like to ask you to be open at the time, and I would ask you not to try to approach this law with the generally accepted opposition attitude, but indeed, what you have just said is that you consider these natural values important, then you should be kind enough to support this law at the beginning of autumn. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-07-11-4	He also spoke before the agenda on behalf of Bence Tordai, on behalf of the Dialogue. I give you the floor.
u2022-07-11-5	Dear Citizens, Dear Parliament, The climate disaster kicked the door at us. I don't think anyone needs to be explained in a time of brutal droughts and heat waves, what it means to change the climate of our Earth, and there's no need to explain when people in the store see the thousand forints of bread. There is no need to explain more what sustainability means, and why it is important to treat our resources in a sustainable way when there is such a harsh energy crisis that families' bills are to be replaced by more than a thousand billion forints of taxpayers' money, so the Hungarian people are paying the price for the failed green policy, failed economic policy and failed foreign policy that we have seen in recent years. There is an ecological crisis, they destroy natural habitats, they reduce animals, and therefore it is not surprising that zoonoses, diseases that spread from animals to humans and back, such as the coronal virus, have resulted in more than 50,000 deaths in Hungary. There is no need to explain what pollution means, which is the main cause of the diseases of the population, civilization, if it is civilization, when 13-14 thousand people die every year in Hungary only because of air pollution, and it is difficult to find people who are not allergic to anything. And when we talk about the food crisis, the energy crisis, the diseases of the people, or the epidemics of Hungarian society, we must always see that the most vulnerable layers and groups, the people with the lowest incomes, suffer these crises at the earliest and most. And in general, the crisis of global capitalism and the social crisis that is exacerbated by fidesz political wildlifeism in Hungary are destroying the quality of democracy at the same time, beating up the fabric of society, exploiting people and nature. This is why we need a green turnaround, which is why we need a green policy, which is why we need a green future and a green Hungary, and that is why we need a dialogue. We need the Dialogue for a solidarity-based Green-Hungary, so that we can finally live in a sustainable way, with nature and with ourselves, in peace in this country. The Dialogue arrived at an age limit with its weekend convention. Over the past nine years, we have had significant successes. Under the leadership of Gergely Christmas and Timea Szabó, the Dialogue, as a motor of opposition cooperation, as a conductor of the project of the pre-election and as a representative of green policy at municipal, national and supranational levels, significantly shaped public speech and public thinking. But in the next period, we will not only be working on cooperation, not only on opposition cooperation and the disintegration of the system, but also on making the green pole as much space as possible within the framework of this cooperation. Two weeks ago, the Dialogue, whose existence has been questioned a few times, achieved nearly 10 percent in an election. [[Bence Rétvári: Whoa!]] and support not only those committed to green policy, but, for example, many people appreciate the feminist conviction, the standing up for equality between women, which is not only expressed in words, but also the fact that, for the first time in Hungary's history, women are majority in the party's governing body as a serious parliamentary party. I am very proud to be working in a women's majority Presidency in the coming years with Rebeka Szabó, the female co-chair of the Dialogue, and I would like to be able to work together soon in a green government of women's majority. [[Bence Rétvári: What do you think of the better pork slaughter?]] Similarly, we value diversity not only in nature but also in society. This is why the Dialogue undertakes to represent minorities, to represent the Roma in Hungary, to represent the Roma in Hungary, and to represent the LGBTQ people in the same way. We are counting on them, and they can count on us, and they can expect that everyone in a green Hungary will have a much more homelier and happier life. And we also know since our victory in Buda that where there's more green, there's less orange. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ranks of MSZP, Dialogue and Momentum.]]
u2022-07-11-6	Mr. Sándor Farkas has the floor.
u2022-07-11-7	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman! You are talking about green policy, although you have brought up many areas of life here in your speech. One thing about me is that I'm really stuck and I've been hit, and it's the loss of opposition. What does it mean to divide the opposition? [[Bence of Turdai: Dissemination of the System!]] That's not exactly how you said it. Did we all look at each other here, that something was starting out the way we thought it would, that they were tearing the opposition apart? We're waiting for this moment, although you guys are falling apart. He said some thoughts about the ecological crisis and environmental pollution. I would like to reassure you that the Hungarian countryside, the Hungarian environment and nature protection are, however, at a much higher level than you think. You're talking about it, and we're doing it, we're doing our job. It would also be very difficult to list a number of examples of measures, camels, investments, regulations, laws that make our environmental policy, environmental protection and nature protection all stronger. It is very difficult to compare a Carpathian Basin with many other areas of Europe. The Carpathian Basin has a special talent, a climate relationship, geologically an interestingly developed area of Europe for which very special rules and special things exist. You reminded us here of the fact that you've shown us quite a wide range of allergies. I would like to point out that we also have extremely advanced programmes in this area. The pollination of various allergenic plants is slowly following, which is certain to cause a number of difficulties. We have already taken a number of examples of this, a lot of good ideas, proposals and not least protection measures, so during the summer, although dry time is conducive to spreading these allergenic plants, I must say that we are preparing for this period of time safely. Honourable Congressman, You talked about drought, environmental pollution, a lot of things. I would like to reassure you that, in the coming weeks and months, the Hungarian government will not be concerned with what has now emerged as a drought, because it cannot be prepared under any circumstances, it will develop a water management programme, a significant part of which will not be new, because we have done a lot of water interventions in Hungary starting with the regulation of the Tisza and the regulation of the rivers, which not only is river regulation, but, as I mentioned earlier, can play a major role in changing the microclimate of the Carpathian Basin. We would like to seek solutions that, prior to our water retention capacity and lowering the groundwater level, we are thinking more about recharged, here in various reservoirs, perhaps even in works that may seem foreign to many people's ears today. [[13.20]] But this is all to create a living, safe environment not only for ourselves but also for the future generation. And I think that we all have a common responsibility in this regard, who are here today in the legislative process, in the building of Parliament. But these are not tasks for a year or two, but we have long-term tasks for years and decades. Once again, we have the foundations, we have the old Vásárhelyi plan, we have the ideas that we will have to develop and apply in the light of modern age and climate change. It's a completely different one, so I'd say it's going to mean a lowland landscape for the decades to come. It had the same effect in the 1970s on the construction of the water staircase in the small circles, which practically changed the water management of Jászség, a bit Hajdú, slightly Szolnok county, which we now see in part, and we need to expand it in part in relation to the sandbacks in Körös, Maros and Duna-Tisza. We will come up with a comprehensive plan, to which we hope you will join. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-11-8	László Toroczkai, leader of the group of Mi Hazank, also submitted a pre-meeting statement. I give the floor to the congressman.
u2022-07-11-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Today everyone in Hungary can see that there is a huge problem, we are moving towards a huge crisis, and the energy crisis, the food crisis, inflation and the deterioration of the value of the forints are becoming increasingly burdensome. But the point, the truth, is again spoken by very few, because this crisis, this crisis, has two main causes and causes: one is global processes and the other is the government's failed economic policy. The government is obviously primarily pointing to global causes, talking about global processes, and the Balliberian opposition will not go against its global owners, so they only point to government errors. Thank God, now there's a third page, a third option, and this is our country Movement, so we can tell you the whole truth, so I can talk about both causes and causes. The leadership of the European Union, the bureaucrats in Brussels who eat out of the palms of global large companies who are partly beneficiaries of the extremely harmful economic processes currently taking place, are constantly blackmailing Hungary if Hungary does not take a stand on certain ideological issues, or if it does not join the gender policy or any anti-life ideology in Europe which, for some reason, is considered to be more important in Brussels. Of course, we have always known that when they hold back European Union funds that belong to Hungary, because Hungary is also a contributor to the European Union, then the global large companies, multi-enterprises that use Hungary to increase their own profits and, in some cases, to increase their extra profit, should also know that those funds are not gifts, but they come back to Hungary. So by withholding these funds, on the one hand, the leadership of the European Union is blackmailing Hungary and that is what we are saying. As I mentioned earlier, this is what the government used to say, but the Balliberal opposition or side doesn't always say that. However, the government forgets to add that the level of corruption in Hungary is outstanding, and it is also very spectacular and very brazen. This is another reason that we also need to talk about in favour of misguided economic policy. What do I call a failed economic policy? Fidesz did not use it to build and strengthen the Hungarian national economy, but it was practically squandered, because a great deal of euros had come to Hungary that had been spent on completely unnecessary investments, and a lot of euros have arrived and are still coming to Hungary, which will not be used in the interests of the Hungarians. The question is that now, when the Hungarian government has made a spectacular submission and has gone to bed in front of Brussels, what can we expect. After all, I would obviously like to receive the money that has been withheld, because there is a huge problem, Hungary is overspended, there is a large budget deficit, and now Fidesz is willing to do almost anything. I would like answers to what the Hungarian Government is willing to do, what concessions it wants to make, and what the Hungarian Defence Commander Russin-Sendi Romulus was doing secretly in Ukraine. Is this part of your submission? Is it part of the policy, the sanctions policy that will destroy the European economy? Do Hungary want to join this now? After all, the government is making such gestures, and for money that is a part of a loan, it is already a loan at EU level, but Hungary will also receive it as a loan, and it can be predicted that this money will not once again strengthen the Hungarian national economy, because so-called energy independence will, in fact, serve to disengage from energy sources that are more easily and possibly available in Russia. This is again about globalist interests and not about Hungarian interests. Is this the kind of money the government wants to make concessions for? And wouldn't the Hungarian government consider it dangerous that the commander of the Hungarian Defence Forces is secretly in Ukraine? We don't know what weapons he was studying or why he was even there. I'm waiting for your answer, and I'm hoping this will tell us. In any case, the government has started an extremely dangerous game simply to receive funds that will not be spent again to strengthen the Hungarian national economy. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-07-11-10	Mr. András Tállai has the floor.
u2022-07-11-11	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, In his interesting speech, he drew conclusions, conclusions and questions from economic policy factors, blackmail of the European Union, and a war briefing of the army commander, which did not reveal reality. 'Cause what's real? As far as the wrong economic policy is concerned, a significant part of his speech has dealt with this: if we look back over the past years, the coronal virus epidemic has put the country at a major challenge, it has created the Hungarian economy. How did the country get out of there? The country came out of it by increasing unemployment for a period of time, by increasing unemployment for a few months, and by returning to the workforce before Covid within a year, by showing 27 percent investment growth, and our economic growth in the European Union was outstanding, as in 2021, we were able to show a 7.1 percent increase by the end of the Covid epidemic. You claim that Hungary has not used these funds, i.e. the funds in the economy properly, in a corrupt way. I ask you, if that were true, how could the economy deliver, how could it be that the number of people employed in Hungary has not fallen in the most difficult times compared to other EU countries. How would credit rating agencies qualify Hungary during the Covid epidemic? How could there be no reduction in people's income during the epidemic, even a real increase in income, nor a decrease in the real value of pensions, nor a decrease in purchasing value? At the same time, Hungary's debt has temporarily increased, as immediately after the Covid epidemic, public debt to GDP is falling again and now, and the deficit is not outstanding in the European Union, but in the middle field. [[13.30]] But you have also talked about the current situation in terms of economic policy. What I would like to say here is that in your analysis, there has not been enough emphasis on the fact that there is currently a war in Europe; there is a war, the consequences of which are borne by the whole of Europe, the whole world, and also by the small open economy, Hungary. The main feature of this energy crisis, the significant increase in energy prices, in particular the gas price, has an impact on inflation and even a significant part of it, thus unfortunately affecting the rise in prices. In Hungary, there is no cash crisis. In Hungary, the government's aim is to protect the workplace, families and the family support programme, and it is very important that families are also protected from rising costs. This costs the budget a great deal of effort, and the taxpayers are right about that. After all, the fact that families in Europe pay the minimum wage is clearly in the budget is clearly a price in our total money. I think the Hungarian government will do what is most important, we must protect the country, we must protect it [[The president's ringing the bell.]] the families, the pensioners. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-11-12	I now give the floor to the representative of the MSZP, Zoltán Vajda.
u2022-07-11-13	Dear Parliament, There have been truly extraordinary events in Hungary in recent days. [[Bence Rétvári: Especially in your precinct!]] It is extraordinary without exaggeration, because it doesn't really happen every day: the members of the government were telling the truth, and they were not only telling the truth, but they were also facing their own propaganda, and they weren't even doing so by a minister. Attorney General Judit Varga has said what everyone knows, and I quote, there are very big cuts in the budget. The Minister referred to this at the meeting of the National Judicial Council when she tried to explain why they could not raise the salary of the judicial staff when the Hungarian judiciary had to compete with Tesco in wages. He says, I repeat, because of the great restrictions, there is no way. In fact, we have also learned from him that it is not Ryanair, not the left, not Soros, not Brussels that I do not know who or what makes it possible to increase the wages of teachers, increase the wages of justice and health, but because of Mihály Varga, the Minister of Justice, that Mihály Varga always says no to any proposal to raise wages. Dear Parliament, This greatly simplifies wage rise problems. The pro-government fellow Members should persuade Mihály Varga, and we can now discuss the proposals for raising the wages of teachers, nurses and civil servants here in plenary. Please don't delay, let's discuss this before our summer recess. I'd rather have an emergency session on this than the many amendments to their granite-solid Fundamental Law. But Tibor Navracsics and Martin the Great told the truth. Navracsics admitted that the European Commission had a problem with the proliferation of government corruption, and that EU funds were blocked in the form of revenge against the law called child protection. And Martin the Great is now talking about another taboo, the recession, and nothing is promising, even though he no longer dares to guess the end of the price increases. Ladies and gentlemen, Every day, it becomes clearer that Hungary's economic and financial situation is moving in a disastrous direction. Recalling once again the Minister's words: there are very large cuts in the budget, and the country is booming towards recession, inflation is leading to decades of peaks and forints are becoming play money. And in such a situation, what do you, the government? They are attacking a market company that dares to raise wages for its employees, accepting a budget with brutal restrictions based on opaque and dream-like numbers. Who believes that next year there will be around 375 forints a euro or only 5 per cent inflation? On the other hand, what are they supposed to do? I'll tell you. Firstly, we really need to end the war, they are right, but the government also needs to end its war with the EU; we need to join the European Public Prosecutor's Office, we need to adopt a comprehensive anti-corruption package so that we can call off the EU funds that we have. Secondly, we must accept the global minimum tax, it is incomprehensible why you are defending the extra profit of the multinationals. Thirdly, we need to implement the euro as soon as possible, because thanks to Fidesz, the wealth and money of families are being consumed by inflation and by the MNB. Fourthly, the livelihood crisis calls for an increase in welfare expenditure. It is unacceptable that, by 2023, less spending on health, education and pensions is planned in proportion to GDP than in 2010 in the middle of a financial crisis. Because the numbers don't lie, I tell you: education will be spent by 37%, healthcare by 14 percent, pensions by 31 percent less next year than the Socialist Government did in 2010. I therefore propose that the government withdraw the draft budget and prepare a new one that is able to keep inflation in check, stimulate growth and prepare for the introduction of the euro and contain both the livelihood crisis. Dear Parliament, With these measures, and once again with a new budget, we could really help the country's economic and financial situation, because what the government is doing now is not helping Hungarians, but precisely who you are attacking orally, György Soros and investors like him, because because of you we can already pay 10% of the Hungarian people's money. Well, so much for the success of the government's wars. Thank you very much, I look forward to your reply, in which I hope there will be no boring and meaningless propaganda, no personalization. [[Bence Rétvári: Because it wasn't?!]] and all kinds of election results, or the recent election [[Bence Rétvári: It hurts! It hurts! The president's ringing the bell.]] reference. Honor the Hungarian people with a meaningful professional response! Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2022-07-11-14	And you should honor the responder by not prioritizing what he will hear. Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor. [[Intercoms from the opposition: Uh-oh!]]
u2022-07-11-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I didn't want to bring up the election results, honourable Member, but if you're going to [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] He brought it up, then the Fidesz candidates in two places defeated your candidates with two-thirds of the results. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] It's not personal. It's fact. He mentioned the issue of health and education. For the sake of fact only: this government spends more than 1470 billion forints on healthcare compared to the last government year on the left; we spend more than 933 billion forints on education, nearly a thousand billion forints more, that is a big difference; and this is the government that has constantly placed great emphasis on wage increases. The net real wages since 2010, if Congressman Bertalan Tóth has had time to talk, because I think it is important, then I will tell him that you have also had a long government cycle of 70 percent during the current administration, then net average wages have increased by 15%. The minimum wage has increased nearly three times, including the minimum wage for skilled workers. This year, while we are also struggling with epidemics and war situations, the wages of workers in the social sector have increased, the wages of those working in the cultural sector have increased, teachers and kindergarten teachers have received higher salaries here, and the Prime Minister has spoken about this in the past few days, the wages of the university instructors have increased, the wages of the nurses' programme has continued, this is a multi-stage programme, and the biggest medical wage increase programme of the past decades continues, and I have not even mentioned that the members of the professional staff and members of the law enforcement staff have received six months' worth of arms. Now, when we talk about livelihood issues, there are three fundamental differences between your crisis management practice, your proposals and the approach of the current right-wing government. Firstly, the left would abolish the reduction of the rent; secondly, they would raise taxes and want to introduce restrictions; and thirdly: openly! lobbying to ensure that Hungary does not receive the EU funds due to it. With regard to the reduction of the rent, we have been protecting Hungarian families with official prices for years, which means saving them tens of thousands of forints a month, and we are doing everything we can to maintain the reduction of the rent in the current difficult situation. On the other hand, you, the left, made it clear, even during the campaign, that if you could do it, you would abolish it and argue that prices cannot be stopped at the border. Then let's see the restrictions. Who knows a little about your economic policy. [[A statement from the opposition.]] He knows they're back-to-back obsessed with tax increases. I would raise the income tax rates, raise corporate tax, and submit budgetary amendments. From what I hear, you're yelling it's all a lie. [[13.40]] Look at the budget changes they're putting in. Take a look at the concrete proposals on how the left made the proposal that the upper rate of personal income tax should be up to 30 percent, how they proposed that corporate tax should be much higher! For example, Gergely Christmas's proposal is 19 percent rather than the current 9 percent, which is a big difference. So you're gonna tell me you're not gonna stand up to saying that the left wants to raise taxes, that's a steep one. If you are misleading us, we are used to this, at least don't try to mislead the Hungarians. Anyway, I didn't say anything about people living in cities getting stuck with traffic charges, as if they didn't have enough weight on their necks anyway. What about EU money? We remember how they launched an open campaign to keep us from getting these. Katalin Czech, then, Katalin Czech! He said that troubled governments should be deprived of the right to distribute money. However, your family business, I suppose, continues to welcome the billions with open arms. In a single left campaign statement a few weeks ago, they said that if Fidesz wins, the EU money will not come. So you guys knew very well. [[Ferenc Gelencsér: Has he arrived? Defiance in the ranks of MSZP and Momentum.]] That this is one of the means of revenge. Klára Dobrev was delighted that I quote, at last, there would be consequences that would really hurt Orbán. So much for your attitude. This left-wing attitude doesn't really hurt the Prime Minister, but if left-wing policy were to be implemented, it would hurt the whole country if it were to be implemented. I don't know if there's any sign of austerity under these circumstances, but you're welcome to put it on your badge. It seems, after all, that whether there is a campaign or not, whether there is a campaign or a peace period, whether it is a war situation or a economic crisis, there are some things that do not change, that the left is unable to look at the interests of the country. I am very, very sorry that you did not understand the main lesson of the 3 April election. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-11-16	On behalf of the Momentum, Ferenc Gelencsér is speaking. I give you the floor.
u2022-07-11-17	Mr. Speaker, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, There is an officially war and migration crisis in Hungary, and in reality a forint crisis, namely a historical forint crisis. Prices are rising enormously and the national currency is deteriorating, which is a serious threat to the livelihood of all families. It's an old saying that money moves the world, in fact, it's not true in this form. Money alone means nothing, real value is trust behind money, social consensus and trust in getting something I need for my money. As a result, trust is what moves the world. The Prime Minister of Hungary knows this, because in 2008 he said in the opposition: there is no problem with the forint, the forint will be a problem if we cannot solve the crisis of confidence. The Prime Minister's exchange is the solution to the forint crisis. With this confidence that the Prime Minister and his government are now in, there is no way to stop the forint from falling. Ladies and gentlemen, The Prime Minister was right in 2008, but unfortunately he was unable to resolve the crisis of confidence. Since your government, the national currency has been in freefall, and the Hungarian currency has been reduced to play money. The exchange rate of the forint fell by more than 50 percent over 12 years compared to the euro. That means one thing: lack of trust. This means that the business world and the market do not trust the Hungarian government, they do not consider it to be able to govern in a predictable and stable manner. This mistrust is at the end of the day that the value of the five-forint coin is less than the material it is made of. If you merge copper, nickel and zinc, which makes the five-forint, then write that it is worth less than before. It's your responsibility, it's your fault. In contrast to their statements in 2008, you now claim that the weakening of the forint is due to the Russian invasion in Ukraine. That's obviously not true. But if it were true, how can it be explained that at the same time the Czech crown, the Croatian kuna, the Romanian lei or the Polish złoty will not be devalued in the same way? with the fact that in the meantime the basic interest rate in these countries is much lower than at home, my honourable pro-government Members. The forint crisis is, in fact, a government crisis, and the solution requires rapid, urgent action. If war was the only reason for the deteriorating forint, why did the government intervene in the economy through the price caps system even before the war? The war did not help inflation, that is a fact, but the rapid weakening of the forint started last summer. Ladies and gentlemen, You know, as we all know, everyone knows that this crisis, the crisis of the forint, has been caused by you, and it is also evident that with two-thirds of your authority, it is your responsibility to resolve it. The responsibility lies with you, but our country is united, and therefore your irresponsible decisions affect the lives of all of us. Please start steering and try to restore the crisis of confidence that you caused, because that is the only way to save the forint! They are right that the most important instrument against inflation is peace at the moment, but you, in fact, should finally make peace with the European Union. If the government cannot bring home the Hungarian people's money, we will help him: we will submit the proposals that we have been trying to draw the government's attention to for three years. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank should start carrying out its most basic task and pursue a meaningful monetary policy! In order to restore confidence, replace the President of the Hungarian National Bank! We need to reduce the energy exposure of our country and work towards closer energy cooperation with the European Union in order to be independent of the Russians. In a globalised world, enforcing sovereignty is much easier if it is done by a community of 500 million than by a small country of ten million. As part of energy independence, permit the construction of wind power plants and extend Paks I's operating time. If you're in Rome, act like the Romans. Make peace with the EU, take the rules of the community and anchor in Europe instead of opening up to the east. Take into account the recommendations on the rule of law and join the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Do not alienate our country from Europe, where we have been or wish to belong for over a thousand years. Take steps to introduce the euro, as in the event of global uncertainty, it is always a general phenomenon that capital runs into safer instruments, typically in hard currencies, including in the euro. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of Momentum, MSZP and DK.]]
u2022-07-11-18	Mr András Tállai will respond again. I give you the floor.
u2022-07-11-19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Chief of Staff, Mr. Party President, I don't know why you've been elected. Congratulations on that. But not for your speech; because you're talking about things that are your dream, your desire. Your desire is not to have confidence in the country. Your dream is that investors don't give money, they don't write down government bonds, and the country can't work. There is no Hungary in any confidence crisis, since the issue of foreign exchange bonds has been successful and will continue to be successful in the future. It is true that the country is in a difficult situation, and you, of course, forgot to say that in your speech. Although he mentioned the war, he did not mention the effect this war has on Hungary, the impact it has on Europe as a whole, the impact it has on the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian budget. It has the effect of protecting Hungarian people from their effects, protecting families, especially from losing their jobs. Whatever trouble this country is in, you can't say that people don't have jobs and lose jobs because they have to close the plants. That's what we're fighting for, so that doesn't happen. If you were realistic about what the problem is in Europe and, above all, in Europe, you would also know that the energy crisis is the problem. The problem is that, for example, gas or electricity prices have increased several times, four to five times, and this puts Hungarian companies, the Hungarian economy, in a very difficult situation. We're fighting this fight and we're fighting it. But you can see that other countries in Europe, for example Germany, Germany, which is the champion of exports, now have to account for foreign trade minus, i.e. its imports exceeded exports. [[13.50]] There is already a much bigger problem in Germany than in Hungary, and we want to protect the country from this; from the fall in economic growth, the loss of jobs, so that families have to pay rent at market prices, so that the value of Hungarian pensioners' pensions cannot remain. Honourable Congressman, You were talking about another crisis, a government crisis. There is no government crisis in Hungary. [[Kálmán Olga: No government.]] In Hungary, you dream of a government crisis. The fact that the exchange rate of the forint, compared to Central Europeans, is slightly weaker [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties. Kálmán Olga: Little weaker?! The weakest in the world!]] This does not mean that... Hungary is better off in terms of inflation than these countries, it is slightly weaker in terms of exchange rate. But if we have examined how much economic growth is, the budget deficit is falling, and the public debt is falling, then we must say that the Hungarian budget is stable, the Hungarian economy is facing the challenges. And you must not visualize mistrust, and do not visualize, do not yearn for a crisis in Hungary. The government is doing its job, the government's first task is to protect Hungarian people, and so far, I think that we can set an example in Europe, and we will continue this policy in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-11-20	On behalf of Jobbik, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian asked for the floor. I'll give it to you. Here you go.
u2022-07-11-21	Mr President, Dear House, I speak for the protection of families and families raising children, but when I hear Mr. Secretary of State Tállai, it's starting to come together for me. You have found that in terms of inflation, we are even better off than the neighbouring countries are quite amazing! And in your budget plan, they're counting on 5.2 percent inflation. I don't know which movie you're watching, but when you're looking at 5.2 percent inflation, I'd like to shed some light on your index. In this inflation measurement methodology, when measuring price changes, they collect a large product basket and look at what people buy. The following are included in this measuring basket: a stereo tower capable of playing CDs, Mr Secretary of State; a paper-bound hand Dictionary, my fellow Members. The price change of the writetable DVD is also measured when they arrive at a budget, so not in an evening conversation or in a coffee shop, but in a budget planning, that you believe that inflation will be 5.2 percent in the next period in Hungary. You can write DVDs, fellow Members. Let us think about how many people in Hungary buy writeable DVDs, how much the price increases, and how this pushes up the inflation rate. So we are quite amazed that the budget is planned by 5.2 percent, otherwise the HUF/euro exchange rate was launched slightly above 370 HUF in next year's budget. Our problem is that your design can be taken seriously, and on the other hand, Hungarians who buy non-writeable DVDs and not paper-bound hand Dictionarys could be given a discount, but basic food, diapers, baby food or children's clothing. Because they're facing an EU record, brutal VAT, and we didn't ask for much. First, we looked at how much more taxes the Government of Hungary will collect from the Hungarian people next year than it did this year. We have seen that he would like to collect more than 1,600 billion of VAT alone. They say that, of course, because domestic consumption is increasing, because how much money Hungarians have, there will be more VAT. We don't accept that, but let's play with the idea. We have asked you for one tenth of this 1600 billion, so not one tenth of the tax already in the register, but one tenth of the tax collected in the plus, to support the children's fosterers, the families, and to zero the VAT for basic food and child-rearing products. They can't say we asked for much. We asked for some of the amazing tax revenue collected in the plus, 10 percent. The last opportunity for you to vote on this is because it has been canceled at Commission level, but obviously you can still support our amendments for whom. I stress that the VAT certification of basic foods and the reduction of the VAT content of child-rearing articles are not a favour on your part, which means that some of the money taken from taxpayers should be regrouped with children, family members, beginners or those who wish to thrive in their homeland, but it is not certain that they can do so in the next period. This is also where our proposal to raise the law enforcement stipend finally falls into place. Here, too, you have one last chance to support this. At the same time, we also have a symbolic proposal, and this is the 40, which means that, after 40 years of work, our fellow men should be entitled to limit themselves to the benefits of a pension system that is not so generous. On the basis of the statistics again referred to, a Hungarian male can be expected to spend a few years in health after he can retire in the face of the current retirement age. But the thing is, in reality, most people either work until they're dead or they can't even reach the age limit we're talking about. Obviously, this is a symbolic proposal. We can also link up our proposal "The Parent's Support Service" which could also use only a part of the child's already paid tax, but 10 percent of it could be used to supplement his parents' pension. I do not need to stress how important a symbolic gesture of solidarity between generations could be in times of crisis. So I would like to capacitate that you do not look at the price change of the writetable DVD, not to plan the life of Hungarian families based on the price change of the stereo tower capable of playing the CD. Let's face the reality, experience the shame of how in an agricultural country the VAT on basic foods can explode so harshly even at regional level, and finally help Hungarian families with the support of these symbolic proposals. I'm not asking for charity for them, not so much of the plus tax collected, not so much, not a tenth of the scale. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-07-11-22	I give the floor to the secretary of state, Eszter Vitalyos. Here you go.
u2022-07-11-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for your speech, the subject of the Hungarian families mentioned in your speech is extremely important, especially because today is the World Population Day. What this day tells us, the civilian government, is to strengthen, protect and guarantee the safety of Hungarian families under all circumstances. The Hungarian families want to live in peace and security, and security is important in all areas today. This security can only be provided by the civilian government. In spite of your emphasis on the fact that you want to reduce VAT, and you are on the side of Hungarian families, while between 2002-2010 you allowed Hungarian families to fall into the trap of foreign exchange lending, when they should have been saved, instead they took sides with the banks. They didn't change their policies after 2010, they only took sides with foreign energy and utility companies instead of banks. This is proof that since 2012, there has been an ongoing attack on the reduction of the rent. In 2022, they came to the very bottom of this situation, to send children of Hungarian families to fight the Russian-Ukrainian war in order to gain power. [[Moraj in the ranks of opposition parties. Gergely Harvesto: That's not true!]] I will go on, Mr Congressman: now the men are fighting for 40, but the women did not support 40 at the time. On the other hand, we want to provide real help to families, as we have stopped before, and then we have eliminated the debt spiral of families that are drowning in foreign exchange credit, so we have now shown that there is no lamp for the increase in prices. Now there is a stop for petrol price growth, price increases for basic foods [[James Peter: Eight hundred bread!]] to raise interest in vain yelling and securing the household [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] keeping the overhead at an affordable level. Honourable Congressman, Among the walls of this House, we have repeatedly said that with its proposal, which, God forbid, I do not dispute its good intentions, it would not help the Hungarian families, but would continue to support the foreign multinationals. As you know, the reduction in VAT is primarily in favour of companies and not for consumers. Companies are profit-oriented, thus seeking to maximize profits. [[14.00]] Therefore, reducing the amount of VAT payable does not necessarily result in end-users, i.e. families raising children, but essentially creates a more favourable situation for companies and higher profits. Since 2010, the civil government has not followed such a tax policy [[Gergely Harvesto: Tax raise.]] The aim is to support families as much as possible through the tax system. To this end, we have introduced a family-friendly turnaround, a tax system that aims at enabling families to spend more money on child rearing through benefits in the personal income tax system than under the Balliberal Family Penalty Policy. This budget is supported by the free textbooks, the family can have a discount meal, and since 2010 the cradle network has been available three times in several settlements. The Hungarian families are indeed the first for us, which is why every year since 2010 we have spent more than the previous years on making it easier to start a family, have children and raise a home in Hungary. Hungary and the future of Europe depend on how we protect and support families. That is why we operate and expand a predictable, stable, complex, targeted and flexible family support system that protects and serves the basic unity of society, the family. To this end, in the budget before the House, in 2023 we provide some HUF 3225 billion in funding for Hungarian families. This is nearly 450 billion forints higher than the sum of the subsidies included in the budget 22 and is exactly three and a half times higher than that of the Balliberal Governments. Our goal in the future will be to give birth to all children in Hungary, to live safely, to live in their own homes, and to keep young people at home. If you really want to contribute to this, you want to help him, then please prove this by voting in favour of the budget. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-11-24	Now it's time for DK's representative, Gergely Arató. I would ask the Member to remain within the framework of the house rules. Here you go.
u2022-07-11-25	I'll try. Mr President, Dear House, Last week, reality came out against the government. After the climate crisis and the social crisis, we met in a series of dramatic figures indicating the economic crisis, the forint falling into unprecedented depths, and brutal deficit figures came out of the budget. All this has shown me that you have destroyed this country and that we need a change. Let it be clear that we are not talking about any abstract economic data, and now families have to give up their planned vacations for months because of exchange rates and runaway prices. They've been planning, dreaming for months, and now it's gone because the Fidesz destroyed the country. More and more elderly people put the goods back on the shelves of the stores, they buy less and less, everything is getting more expensive because Fidesz destroyed the country. The teacher, the nurse, the firefighter, the social worker, the worker hears that he doesn't get a raise, just the Prime Minister, because the economic situation is difficult. Month after month, it's harder to earn a decent wage because Fidesz ruined the country. And to mention a truly sad example: one of the consequences of your austerity policy is to eliminate the support of the adult pant diaper. Do you know what that means? This is just a drop in the sea for you, but for those who are in the most difficult situation, for families with their elderly family members or even for families with their adult children, this means that they have to choose between another tens of thousands of HUF or human dignity. And all because the Fidesz destroyed the country. The cause and cause of the crisis is Viktor Orbán, because of his full power he is responsible for Hungary's crisis. According to the Democratic Coalition, the responsibility of the crisis caused by the Orbán government and the regime cannot be shared; the unlimited power involves not only unlimited corruption, but also unlimited responsibility. So let the government do their job, or if you can't get any results, step aside. But, of course, propaganda continues to rumble, we hear they're lying about war inflation, while the price increases started long before the war. We shouldn't have maximized the price of fuel in November and some food in January if inflation hadn't flown even before the war. This is not war inflation, but inflation in Orbán. By the way, the problem is that they sometimes tell the truth in their confusion: Judit Varga admitted that the budget was full of cuts, György Matolcsy talked about a thousand billion-dollar tax increase, János Fónagy said here in the House that there would be a recession, and Márton Nagy threatened to cut wages. But the problem also shows that suddenly they have given up the roostering with Brussels. We need money so badly, the situation is so bad that they are even willing to fulfil Hungary's EU obligations for it. Tibor Navracsics, who suddenly became a KDNP politician, admitted that it was not the law that lied to child protection, but the situation of the rule of law that prevented EU funds from coming, and Minister Gulyás immediately submitted a package of proposals, which also admitted that there were very serious problems with public procurement and that they would not investigate corruption cases, since they would not otherwise have to promise a change. But let it be clear that this is not enough, it is just a peacock dance, because if you really want to do something to reduce corruption, so as not to steal EU funds, to make EU funds available, then there is a very simple way: to support the European Union... we are in it, but also to support entry into the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Support the European Public Prosecutor's Office in investigating cases of theft of EU funds in Hungary. Yes, your business, your relatives and your friends' affairs, your oligarchs' affairs as well. Because this is the way in which EU funds will otherwise be opened up, EU money taps for Hungary. And don't say that this is a matter of sovereignty, because Germany, France or Austria are proud of their sovereignty, but they still think it's important that they investigate the theft of EU money and join the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Therefore, we are presenting a proposal for a decision, and now the lungs will separate from the liver, and now they will vote to state that they consider Hungary's interests, EU funds, more important than filling their own pockets and their friends' pockets. And I know that the replying Secretary of State will come to you with how well you handle the crisis against the left-wing governments. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] It is worth reminding: In 2018-19, the euro/forint exchange rate was 316 HUF... [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic. Eszter Vitályos: Was there a crisis then?]]
u2022-07-11-26	Congressman, your time is up. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]] Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2022-07-11-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I didn't make a comparison, but since you're in the mood for it, during your crisis management, the economy has dropped by 7 percent last year. Those are the facts. When we talk about living issues, we need to take into account the basic economic conditions. One is the mentioned 7 percent economic growth and the other is that we can expect significant economic growth this year, despite all the difficulties. It is a telling fact that industrial production has increased by 9 percent compared to last year, and employment is at record levels. Nevertheless, we do not deny the difficulties faced by the European economy. There are dark clouds gathering on the skies of the European economy, and the fact is that they have already gathered together, and the main cause of trouble, no matter what they say, is inflation that is emerging as a result of the war, including the rise in energy prices. Honourable Congressman, If you are interested in the answer, because you have just denied this question: if you are simply looking at European stock prices, please listen. If we consider only that, we see the shocking process that the price of gas has increased six times over a year and five times that of electricity. Don't deny it. We also see that the closer an area to a war conflict, the greater the terror of inflation. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Oh, my God!]] I understand that they are trying to show that the inflation problem is characteristic only in Hungary, but let us look at the facts: Slovakia 12.5; Poland 15.6; the Czech Republic 16; Estonia 22 percent inflation, below that. You may know that very well, but you are trying to mislead the public. As far as exchange rates are concerned, forint exchange rate fluctuations and inflation are caused by war, including energy prices and European responses to the crisis. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Peace.]] That is why the euro is weakening compared to the dollar [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] just as European currencies are weakening, and with this comes the movement of the forint. [[Gergely Harvestó: Weakening compared to the euro! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Economics One!]] So the thing is that, in an economic sense, Europe is paying the price of war, not the war aggressor, but Europe is drawing the short straw in economic terms. [[14.10]] The government had to act under these circumstances, so we decided on the price stops, and that's why the government decided to maintain them. The food price stop, the interest rate stop, the credit moratorium, and as much as possible, we'll keep the rent cut, and we'll protect the rent cut. If you care so much about the livelihood of Hungarians, why did you not support these decisions? We also know, of course, what you want. Constraints [[Gergely Harvestó: We've already got it without it.]] And a tax increase, I could say again. They'd even tax taxes. Their amendments tabled are instructive. See if you don't know what they submitted. We have calculated: if these were to be implemented, they would mean a tax increase of HUF 3240 billion for the country. That's almost the amount we're going to spend next year on family support, the Defense Fund and the Rehabilitation Fund. We don't want to burden families, but we're targeting the extra profit obtained during the war, which is a huge difference. And if you look at energy prices, let's make one thing clear: if the left were to steer, there would be no reduction in the overhead. If someone counted how many times this measure was attacked, it would be easy to get into the record book. Anyone who doesn't believe will look at what the left has said about this earlier: it's difficult to cancel; less water and electricity should be used; higher prices should encourage the population; a huge, ready-to-be scam show, they said about it,. People's debauchery and unsustainable, and they also said about limiting energy prices, that it was an unfair, stupid measure. Which means that if I could, they'd shut it down immediately. A Hungarian household saves tens of thousands of forints a month by reducing the rent, and you would take that away with a pen. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Apples are expensive. A statement from the opposition: A thousand forints a kilo of bread!]] So we have the feeling that the left has been retro-radiating since 1995 and that Lajos Bokros, from Bajnai Gordon, to the current players, are constantly putting in their song "The High Pressure." That's what the big left-wing economic policy is all about. This is not only an expired record, but we also know, based on the 3 April election, that we also feel that Hungarians do not want to listen. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-07-11-28	I now give the floor to the leader of the KDNP faction, Member István Simicskó. Here you go.
u2022-07-11-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Russian-Ukrainian war is endless, there is no way to predict for how long, even in a military sense, but what may be at least as serious, in an economic sense, we cannot say how long the effects and harmful processes of this will last. This is a huge challenge for everyone, and I believe that the basic challenges that concern the energy crisis, the food crisis, the economic crisis, the industrial crisis and the whole world crisis are very, very difficult to see clearly today. We can certainly see that there are two reasons for this: primarily the war itself; and beyond that, the failed Brussels sanctions policy with which we make our own situation difficult and most of all Europe difficult. We also see, ladies and gentlemen, that by 2022 energy and energy became almost the most important issue. This is the main concern of the world's public opinion and population today as to the effects of war and misguided sanctions policy on energy, energy policy and energy prices. Hungary has always stood for peace, and it still calls for peace, and many countries in the world, who see this situation sober, want peace. Obviously, there are some who don't, by the way, who vote for war with arms shipments, inciting war, inspiring the media, and talking about unbelievable violent post-war protests. Ladies and gentlemen, In Brussels, we see and hear that they are thinking of new sanctions and embargoes. The sanctions are clearly managed and rectified effectively by Russia. One thing is certain that, based on the experience so far, we can see that Russia will not be forced to abandon its war goals by the sanctions policy in Brussels, and it can even lead to an ever-increasing energy crisis, a food crisis, and we can see war inflation as aggravating circumstances. With this policy, Europe seems to be slowly renting a seat on the bench of the losing team. It is possible to decide who will be the winners of the war, or who or who will be the winners of the war. One thing is certain, however, that with this attitude, this policy of Europe, it can only be a loser, and it is not a pleasure for us, because we are also members of the Union. Ladies and gentlemen, What good was the oil embargo, for example? Charles Michel, President of the European Council, said following the decree of the embargo: the European Union is putting as much pressure on Russia as possible to end its war against Ukraine. On the other hand, what happened? What do the facts show, fellow Members? After Russian oil banned from the West found another market in Asia, Russia was able to record record oil sales. So much for Brussels' wisdom. We can see that another insane idea has come up in Brussels, namely the gas embargo. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that no one here can faithfully represent it in this Parliament and in this country, so that the Hungarian families will pay the price of this war. It is not possible to allow Hungarian families to heat gas during the winter, but it is necessary to prevent them from cooking. The way I see it in Brussels is the old, good way, as in medieval medicine, that it has always been suggested to cut blood vessels, now it seems that sanctions, sanctions, sanctions, and sanctions are the solution. But we see that this is not the solution, so we support the government's efforts to continue to stand up for the interests of the Hungarians, not to give in to these insane ideas in Brussels, because it can be seen that sobriety, arguments and facts fully support the Hungarian government's position. Ladies and gentlemen, I trust that the left can see the truth and significance of these arguments, although we can see that it supports the bureaucrats in Brussels and assists with the sanctions policy. This is not how we Christian democrats feel about this, and Hungary's security and economic security and energy security are key. Let us not allow energy prices to go, and the Hungarian government will continue to do everything in its power to protect Hungarian families. You can continue to count on the support of the Christian Democratic People's Party. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-07-11-30	In response, Minister Péter Szijjártó has the floor.
u2022-07-11-31	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Ladies and gentlemen, The European Union and the entire continent of Europe are facing challenges at the same time, one of which would be many. The war in Ukraine is an extremely serious security threat for Europe. We know that perfectly well, in whose neighborhood the war is taking place. However, when we talk about security challenges, we only understand the physical security challenges in part. That would be enough, and it would be much more than we need. But here is the challenge of our energy security and our economic security. The European Union has clearly failed to address these challenges at the same time. The answers we have given so far have not helped to steer the war conflict towards a solution, on the one hand, and on the other hand, Europe's competitiveness has deteriorated significantly over the past period. Unfortunately, this is true in absolute terms, but it is even more true when we are trying to measure the development of European competitiveness, both in the US and in Asia, over the past few years, to measure competitiveness and fundamentally to improve competitiveness. Here in Europe, security of energy supply has been fundamentally questioned in the period before the war. Remember, at the end of last year, for the first time, the question was that you would have enough energy. This was the first time in Europe when the price was not the main issue when purchasing energy sources, but the question was that it would be enough for energy. [[14.20]] Unfortunately, we are also in a similarly difficult situation now, given that gas supplies to Europe from Russia have fallen extremely much, and the price of natural gas is increasing to such an extent that it can practically bring European economies to their knees. I respectfully inform Mr Group Leader and my fellow Members of Parliament that the natural gas supplies to Hungary have developed as follows in recent days. The centre of gravity of the transport is clearly transferred to the southern transport route. One day, about 30 million cubic metres of natural gas arrive in Hungary, more than half of the 30 million cubic metres of natural gas, more than 16 million cubic metres of gas arriving in Hungary via the southern transport route, i.e. via Turkey, Bulgaria and Serbia. Remember what attacks we were subjected to when we made investments in order to bring large quantities of natural gas from the south to Hungary. Now it is worth thinking back over that period and asking the question; if we had not resisted the pressure and made these investments, we would be in huge trouble with regard to gas supply. In the framework of the long-term gas purchase agreement with Russia, 88-89 percent of the quantities contracted to Hungary arrive daily. This decrease is due to the fact that the quantity arriving through Austria was reduced by half of the originally Nominated about a month and a half ago. We know exactly the challenges we are facing in the gas supply system from Russia to Western Europe. I respectfully inform the group leader that it has been decided that MVM and MSZKZKZ have been authorised to buy natural gas in addition to long-term contracts, as much as we can physically store in gas storage in Hungary until the start of the heating season. Finally, I would like to make it clear here and now again to the Head of the Group and to the Hungarian Parliament that the Government of Hungary is not even willing to discuss the issue of the gas embargo. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-11-32	I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kósa before today's last agenda.
u2022-07-11-33	Mr. President. Dear House, Hungary and its borders are under double pressure, to an unprecedented extent: we are at the same time hit by a flood of war from Ukraine, now more than 800 thousand Ukrainian citizens have crossed Hungary from Ukraine, fleeing from the war, but at the same time the number of people who try to cross the border illegally is increasing every day on our southern borders. This puts unprecedented pressure on us, and the European Union will not give us any meaningful help. In principle, the European Union with Ukraine at the level of words, at the level of political speeches, is extremely solidarityful, but if it comes to supporting the states or those who are otherwise fleeing the Ukrainian-Russian war that, no, we cannot be found in substance by the support of the European Union. And it doesn't even occur to us that, by the way, at the southern border, we are defending not only Hungary, but the European Union, in accordance with the Schengen Convention, but we have received all the attacks on this. FRONTEX, the EU's specialised organisation, is more like a travel agency who distributes brochures to migrants than otherwise helps to protect them. Paradoxically, the biggest help is probably the fact that a European Union country, namely Slovenia, decides because the Slovenian Government has decided to break down the fence between Croatia and Slovenia because it will rearrange the routes. This is all the more important, because we can see that those approaching the border of Hungary from the south are not cooperating, they hide their origins, they reject their documents, and otherwise they attack policemen, soldiers and those serving there with casual weapons, and now they have regular weapons. Now, last time there was a shooting involving death in Serbia along the Hungarian border between the various competing migrant and human smuggling gangs. In this situation, we can do nothing but step up the efforts that we need to protect Hungary's territorial integrity and the security of the Hungarian people, taking full account of our obligation to protect the southern border. Let us not forget that in the case of those who are really fleeing the war, those who are coming from the Ukrainian side, there is no green border crossing or border crossing, especially violence at all. Not at all! Not taking into account the amazing double standards that the European Union has set for our defences and other border fences and other defences, Finland is now building a fence between Russia and Finland where, by the way, bears are likely to be more than the migrants we have ever seen, but they are very supportive of it, that is very fine. The wings of the Austrians, when they built wings because they didn't build fences, but they built gates with wings, that was very fine, they didn't support us in anything. At the same time, the Fidesz fraction considers it extremely important and strongly supports the creation of new border hunting organisations and formations for the protection of the Fidesz faction, in the first step a team of 2,200 people with a medium-term capacity of 4,000 people, to help protect and secure the border, because this migratory pressure will not decrease, partly with the emergence of the food crisis, and partly because the European Union continues to encourage illegal border crossings rather than helping to protect them. We therefore support and will support in the Budget Act the measures to set up new border hunting units. Protecting Hungary is our duty. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-11-34	Minister Péter Szijjártó came again to reply. Here you go.
u2022-07-11-35	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Deputy Chief of Staff, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary has indeed been under double pressure in recent months. In recent years, unfortunately, we have had to get used to the fact that our southern border is practically under siege, because the police and soldiers serving there had to do superhuman work to protect Hungary and the Hungarian citizens from violent attempts to break in, so I do not think that we can thank enough of the police and soldiers who have guaranteed the protection of Hungary and the Hungarian people at the southern border in the last seven years. The numbers are going dramatically. This year, 114,000 illegal migrants had to be stopped; 114 thousand. This means stopping 597 illegal migrants on a daily basis by not reaching 48,000 in the same period last year. So 48,000 were not in that time, and now more than 114 thousand illegal migrants have tried to enter Hungary in contempt of our laws, in violation of our sovereignty, and in a violent way. The level of aggression and violence at the southern border has reached a whole new level of quality, as migrants have been armed, I could say that they have been armed, and these weapons are now being used, sometimes against each other, and they are threatening police and soldiers protecting the Hungarian border. [[Noise. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] [[14.30]] This is unacceptable. In Hungary, these people have no business being here. We're not gonna let them in, however Brussels wants them, or whatever the Soros NGOs push them on us. In addition, this year, 861 smugglers were faced. In the same amount of time last year, this number was only 445. So it is clear that the allowed migration policy in Brussels is the reason why the smuggling business is booming. This business model must be broken down, but this business model can only be broken if we make it clear that Hungary and the European Union can only come into Hungary in a regular manner and only in compliance with our laws. We are in the 24th hour, and it is time for Brussels to change its migration policy. Meanwhile, asylum seekers arrive from the east because of the war that broke out there. More than 833 thousand from this year and from February onwards, therefore, more than 833 thousand! We received a refugee here in Hungary. We let everyone in, we take everyone in, we provide everyone with security, of course, because those who come to us from the east, from Ukraine, they run from the war, they run for their lives, where would they go if they didn't come next door? But those who come from the south, they come through peaceful and safe countries, sometimes through dozens of them. These people are coming in a violent, illegal way, so, of course, we won't let them in. So we stop all illegal migrants from the south and let the refugees in from the east. I would like to point out that both are European tasks. They're both European. Of course, we will meet this obligation, but this will require enormous efforts and enormous resources. We are costing EUR 1.6 billion, and we have received 2 percent of this EUR 1.6 billion from Brussels, which is obviously a shame. But I would like to make it clear once again that those who are fleeing us from Ukraine will be given security, but we will not allow any illegal migrants from the south, as we have never done before. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-11-36	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2022-07-11-37	Dear Parliament, Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Zoltán Varga, DK; Andrea Hegedüs, DK; Éva Sebők, Momentum. Máté Kanász-Nagy, LMP; Tamás Mellar, Dialogue; László Toroczkai, Mi Hazank; Zsolt Molnár, MSZP; Dávid Bedő, Momentum; Brenner Koloman, Jobbik; Zoltán Komáromi, DK; László Földi, KDNP; Richárd Hörcsik, Fidesz. Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Dávid Dócs, Mi Hazank.
u2022-07-11-38	Dear Parliament, The House Rule of Decision 6. According to Article 4 of the Act, Members may set up other groups which are not a political group for the purposes of the activities of their representatives. I declare that representatives of Imre Vejkey, János Latorcai, Lőrinc Nacsa, Bence Rétvári, János Süli and Zsolt Semjén KDNP, as well as representatives of Mónika Bartos, István Bajkai, Dr. Judit Bertalan, Zoltán Demeter, Mónika Dunai, Zoltán Kovács, Márta Mátrai, Lajos Mészáros, Zsolt Nyitrai, Imre Pesti, Fidesz MEPs Gábor P Pressek and László Vigh, as well as Imre Ritter's representative, have also informed that they have formed the Hungarian Parliamentary Ima Group, which is not represented by representatives, i.e. ex-members or ethnic spokes. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Dear House, The author has initiated that T/559 on certain issues relating to the functioning of the territorial administration and on certain amendments to certain laws relating to the eleventh amendment of the Fundamental Law. The Parliament shall also discuss the number of proposals under urgent procedure at this meeting. I would ask notary Lajos Szűcs to present the emergency proposal.
u2022-07-11-39	Regulation No 10/2014 on certain house rules [[ANNEX II 24.]] Parliamentary resolution, hereinafter referred to as the House Rule 60. On behalf of the Government, pursuant to paragraph 1 of Section T/559 concerning certain matters relating to the operation of the territorial administration and the amendment of certain laws relating to the eleventh amendment of the Fundamental Law, I propose on behalf of the Government. Urgent trial of bill No 1. The urgent hearing is necessary for the adoption of the bill as soon as possible. I propose that the general debate of the bill be held on Tuesday, 12 July 2022 as the last item on the agenda; that an amendment be tabled on Tuesday, 12 July 2022 until the general debate is concluded; that the detailed discussion phase be opened with the conclusion of the general debate on the bill, the Legislative Committee being the House Rule 46 of the Decision. After receiving the information referred to in paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article, but in accordance with paragraph 46. Before the deadline laid down in paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, you may evaluate the Commission's proposals for amendments closing the detailed debate. In view of the above, Article 15 of the Rules of Procedure of the Decree provides that: On the basis of paragraphs (4) of Section 4 of the Act, I shall initiate the amendment of the proposal for a special meeting of the Parliament on 11 and 12 July 2022 with the general debate on the proposed bill, so that the bill in question can be adopted in the week starting on 18 July 2022. The amendment to the agenda is justified by the priority government interest in the adoption of the bill as soon as possible.
u2022-07-11-40	Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members present to order an urgent hearing. So I'm asking the House, it's urgent that T/559 be brought to trial. tabled in accordance with the national proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has ordered the urgent hearing of this motion by 131 votes in favour, 48 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, It was initiated by the national Parliament to discuss in an exceptional procedure the T/583 on the specific tax of taxpayers. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The rapporteur initiated the possibility of submitting amendments within 3 hours of the decision on the exceptional procedure, the consolidated debate being held on Tuesday, 12 July 2022 as the first item on the agenda, the decision on the draft amendment and the final vote on Tuesday, 12 July 2022. Rule 62 of the Rules of Procedure Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. In order to provide for an exceptional procedure, more than half of the Members, i.e. a hundred Members, must vote in favour. Dear Parliament, I'm asking you, do you accept T/583? Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament accepted the hearing of the proposal in exceptional proceedings by 131 votes in favour, 48 votes against and no abstentions. [[14.40]] Proposals for amendments to the agreed decision can be submitted at 5:40 p.m. today. Dear House, We are now deciding on a proposal to supplement the agenda. The Fidesz Group proposed that the Parliament's proposal for an extraordinary meeting on 11 and 12 July 2022 be added to the election of a member of the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank and to the debate and adoption on Monday of the political statement rejecting political pressure contrary to the protection of Hungary's economic interests. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, as we have just decided, P/578. A proposal for amendments to the political statement No 1 can be submitted within three hours of the adoption of the agenda, so that it is possible to do so for 17 hours and 41 minutes. Dear Parliament, Now, at 2.41 p.m., we will move on to interpellation negotiations, and I would ask my fellow Members to allow us to continue our work after a short technical break. [[It's a short break. It's a lot of noise.]] I would ask my fellow Members to continue their discussions outside the hallway. Dear Parliament, Kálmán Olga, a representative of DK, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Economic Development. I give you the floor.
u2022-07-11-41	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear Minister, Someone who will answer on his behalf. I can summarize in four words what has been caused by inflation in Orbán and what has been done to Hungary by you ruining the forint: shortage of professionals, lack of food, lack of fuel and now water scarcity. There are not enough professionals, because you have weakened the forint for the sake of the multinationals, so that it is less and less worth working in Hungary and getting paid in HUF. There won't be enough food on the shelves because of you, because it's less and less worth selling food at the official price of weak forints. It's the same with the fuel. There's a fuel shortage at 500-700 gas stations a week, even if you don't talk about it and don't talk about it, because large oil companies collaborating with you aren't worth trading fuel at a government price due to weak forints. The situation with water is similar, even though it has helped in your view that climate change does not exist. The water networks have not been developed for years because of the official prices for energy prices, they have not been maintained, so in several settlements there was no drinking water in the summer temperature of 37 degrees, there was no watering, and the bad news is that there will still be a hot summer and there will be hot summer days. While you lie to us that we have everything, everyone envies us, everything is all right in Hungary, well, we see very different when we open our eyes. Their many years of lies have now caused a shortage of professionals, food shortages, fuel shortages, and water shortages. Let's not beat around the bush: you have turned Hungary into a deficit economy. They dusted down the failed model of planning management decades ago to perform in a new robe. I could say that in the role of Marx we see Viktor Orbán in the role of Engels György Matolcsy, but I think that would be quite unfair and offensive to Marx, Engels. The thing is, what we're seeing from the beginning is a failed, renovated version, it's gonna end exactly the same as the original one. You know, you live in a Czechovian world, where a lie covering the truth only becomes apparent when the mud is up to your neck. For 12 years, they've been trying to cover up the damage they've done to their lies with an even bigger lie, so that when things get worse, they lie even more. That's how they roll in front of you the growing set of problems they don't dare face, and that's the end of it. I ask Minister why they made Hungary a deficit economy, why they destroyed the forint, and why they destroyed our country immediately after the forint. Thank you. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-07-11-42	I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2022-07-11-43	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Of course, who has lied in Hungarian public life and who is lying can have an elevated debate here, although I must say that you were affected by your environment, you were better, better than your comment. About who lied, you and I, we're not gonna decide between each other. [[Kálmán Olga: Yes!]] it was decided by the Hungarian electorate. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]] They received 2.5 million votes in 2018, 1.9 in April this year. But let's not go back that far. In recent weeks there have been interim elections in the country, from Budaörs to Dunaújváros to Budapest, Erzsébetváros, Józsefváros, Downtown: your candidates have failed in a number of areas previously considered left-wing. In April, Hungarian citizens also decided how they wanted to live. In your time in 2010, 3.7 million people worked, 4.7 million people working today, one million more people working. During civil governance, wages continuously increased, with a minimum wage of 73 500 HUF in 2010 and today 200,000 HUF. You, the Left, did not support any measures, did not vote to protect the Hungarian families. It did not support the exemption of young people, the tax reimbursement of families. He did not vote for a reduction in overhead charges, a price stop, a interest rate stop or a fuel stop, which today has a 67 percent lower inflation rate. In fact, you attacked every family protection measure in the campaign. Before 2010, they took everything they could and increased, making families pay for crises. In 2002 and 2010, all food VAT was raised by the left, and in most cases it was doubled. We've said it many times, but once again, after your comment, you have doubled the price of electricity, three times the price of natural gas. They took away the 13th month's pension. I must say that, on the basis of your comments, you would still do so today. They are constantly attacking the government at a time when there is a war economic and war inflationary crisis. I believe you do not dispute that a significant proportion of domestic inflation is calculated to be the result of some 80 percent of foreign effects, and that the Hungarian economy is also performing excellently under the current circumstances. Unfortunately, you are also working in Brussels today to ensure that Hungary does not have access to the resources it deserves, and if you were in power, you would have supported all sanctions, ignoring Hungarian interests. The Hungarian voters have decided over the past few years, and they do not ask for any more of you. Thank you for your attention, thank you for your opportunity, Mr President. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]] [[14.50]]
u2022-07-11-44	I will ask Congresswoman to accept Mr Secretary's reply.
u2022-07-11-45	Mr. Secretary, I also remember the times when you refused to read the lies about the paper you put in front of you. But I don't blame you, you're actually doing the same thing that you and your colleagues expect you to do: lie, lie, lie, lie to us all the time, to our eyes. And if you really think that the Hungarian currency is not the fastest devalued currency in the world, if you want us to believe that, then what are you doing again? They're lying! And they can lie to me in my eyes, even to the eyes of voters a hundred times a day, and we can still see the truth, we can experience it. We go to the store, we pay, we live on wages and salaries. Well, Secretary of State, the shortage of professionals, the lack of food, the lack of fuel, the lack of water are on our necks, and I know it's hard to admit that you're part of that government. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You know what I mean, which government...
u2022-07-11-46	I understand you didn't take the answer, did you? [[Kálmán Olga: I did not accept the answer.]] It was hard to figure out what he had to say. [[Kálmán Olga: I thought it was simple.]] I would like to inform the honourable Members that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting for each interpellation. László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interview to the Minister of Technology and Industry with the title "The Great Water Crisis." I'll give the floor to Congressman.
u2022-07-11-47	Dear Secretary of State, In recent weeks, water shortages have increased and water restrictions have been introduced in many places. Several agglomeration settlements have caught up with the Alföld Túrkeve or Jászség Jászberény, and some of the settlements of Heves county have already been warned about the expected occurrence of water scarcity. According to the Ministry, it's just a technological problem, whatever it is, and that's why this situation could develop, but the thing is, on the spot, the people who live there don't see it that way. The inhabitants of the affected settlements are aware that the resulting water shortages are due to the development of water utility networks or to the complete lack of maintenance and repair. In many small towns and rural villages, the water utility system has been in place for 40-50 years, its maintenance would be due after its creation, and, let's say, it has not always been held, it requires replacement or intervention. In recent years, however, public companies acquiring water utilities have not done so. On the other hand, many of us remember when the municipalities carried out this task well, with a real ownership attitude around 2010. Unfortunately, unorthodox responses were also received to address the situation, and surprising answers were also received. Thus, beyond the state of the water utility network, the mayor of Túrkeve blames for the reduction of the rent, but Tamás Menczer also presented a solution, who proposed to the Solymárs to bathe less, i.e. only in the most important case. After all, it is important to say that it is not only the weather or consumer needs that can be blamed, but it is important to see that the municipalities were better owners of these water utilities. It seems that it was a mistake to take this public service away from them, and the current situation requires immediate intervention because of the lack of maintenance of the network. With all this in mind, I ask you, Madam Secretary of State, when does the government intend to intervene in dealing with or even preventing water shortages? When will the time come for people to see workers coming to complete renovation and development to solve water problems instead of soldiers and slow wagons? Is the government planning to finally return the water utility assets to the settlements with adequate funding? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2022-07-11-48	I give the floor to Secretary of State Zsófia Koncz. Here you go.
u2022-07-11-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Congressman, Contrary to your speech, I would like to point out that in 2010 the government did not inherit a good position in this area either, since, unfortunately, since the change of regime, the pipeline and the technical renovations have been largely out of hand. Despite the measures taken in recent years, the modernisation of networks is currently one of the most important tasks for the water utility sector. I inform you and the National Assembly that between 2018 and 2020, the government supported the reconstruction of water utilities with HUF 4.5 billion and efficiency improvements with HUF 3.5 billion in 2019. I would also like to point out that, in order to avoid a difficult economic situation, at the end of 2020, the government provided state aid to loss-making local government-owned water utility providers through the owner's municipalities for nearly HUF 4 billion. Unfortunately, in most parts of the world, the safety of water supply and good quality drinking water is not natural, so we Hungarians are especially grateful for the fact that we in Hungary have a natural move to open the tap and drink a glass of good quality water. It is a pleasure to have clean drinking water provided to Hungarians. Of course, it doesn't matter how we treat this natural treasure, the water supply. I would like to stress that Hungary has enough water, and the availability of public drinking water supply in Hungary is 100%. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) The government is constantly monitoring the current problems in the water utility service sector requiring government intervention, deciding on the necessary measures on the basis of professional considerations to address them. I would like to draw attention to the fact that addressing the problem within a given water utility system falls within the responsibility of the care provider, who provides the service on the basis of a contract with the water utility provider. According to the Water Management Act, it is for the local government to ensure the approval of a plan to restrict the supply of water to public utilities and to establish a system of water consumption. This was also the case in Jászberény, mentioned by you, where the mayor who started his political career in your party, Jobbik, ordered the water restriction after the local government approved the Tiszamenti Regional Waterworks Ltd. a uniform water restriction plan. As regards the Pest County area, mentioned by the Member, I would like to point out that there have been around 60 thousand people moving there in the past period, so in the extreme heat the capacity of the water utility network has resulted in a limit load on the water system. According to the information provided by the provider, the problems in the municipalities concerned were resolved on 3 July. Thanks also to the staff of the Hungarian Defence and Disaster Protection, as well as our fellow Member Tamás Menczer, who was exemplary in helping settlements with temporary water shortages. At the end of my reply, I would like to thank the Hungarian water experts, who are doing conscientious work every day for 0-24 hours every day of the year in every part of the country, and I would like to draw attention once again to the fact that there is enough water in Hungary, the government and water experts are, of course, working to ensure that this is the case in the future, that good quality drinking water remains available for everyone in the country, to live anywhere in the country. As has been shown, the Government knows and addresses the problem, and I therefore ask the Member to accept my reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-07-11-50	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I respectfully welcome my fellow Members and ask Mr Luke to accept the reply of the Secretary of State.
u2022-07-11-51	Thank you very much. I can't accept the answer. It seems that not only the water level of the Danube or the Tisza is low, but also the justification for why the solution proposed by you is good at treating people's water crisis at all. It is also safe to say that you have now succeeded in flashing an intellectual crisis in this matter. You don't think, Madam Secretary of State, seriously, as a Borsodi representative, that there is a municipality in Hungary that can fight well and effectively with water utility companies who have refused to do renovations in recent years, who come out to solve the problem at great dissipation or a great deal of dissuade, with whom they must stand in constant combat? ! This is what we see in Túrkeve, that is what we saw in Jászberény, and that is what we see in the agglomeration settlements, even though he says that this is because of moving out. Madam Secretary of State, it is not necessary to install disaster prevention and defences in every town and every village in Hungary due to water scarcity, and to provide fair water supply. The only question here is whether or not you expect the municipalities to be partners. I can't accept the answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[15.00]]
u2022-07-11-52	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Mr Miklós Hajnal, representative of Momentum, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Culture and Innovation. Mr Miklós Hajnal, who will be answered by the Secretary of State, Eszter Vitalyos.
u2022-07-11-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Madam Vice Minister, instead of Minister, At the end of June, it turned out that Buda, one of the few theatres, the Atrium, was on the verge of bankruptcy. The Atrium, which lays married pieces from week to week on its program, which has been a cultural citadel with a decade of tradition not only for Buda, but not for the second. as a district, but also as tens of thousands of viewers every year. The Atrium is on the verge of bankruptcy because despite the fact that the full-built performances, cultural tao, have not been compensated for the theatre since the end of 2018. While the National Theatre received more than 70,000 forints of state support for each ticket sold in the previous years, at present it is zero forints on Atrium's theater tickets. Although several local authorities are making serious efforts to prevent one of Hungary's most popular independent theatres from being forced to close, for example, by establishing tender funds to support art, the financial scope of the municipalities is still very limited, and your government is increasingly weakening it every year. And the state would have money to finance independent culture, since nearly HUF 109 billion for the public service media, Paks II. Zrt. The capital increase will be HUF 150 billion and HUF 12 billion for government communication and consultation tasks in the budget. So it can be seen that the government alone does not have a problem in principle with the public support of private theatres either, as they generously support the Karinthy Theatre with HUF 300 million, with HUF 200 million in Game Color and HUF 300 million in Turay Ida Theatre, but the Atrium, as I said, receives zero forints. They didn't even pay the 17 million forints they had already been awarded. In fact, they didn't even make it to the signing of the document of support, even though the deadline has been up for weeks. We believe that the financing of culture must be decided by politically independent professional bodies. We believe that theatres are an integral part of our community and culture. The government obviously has a different view of the theater, a different view of culture than we do. It is obvious that the government has a cultural guiding principle: those who do not remain silent do not receive money. So I ask the Deputy Minister, instead of the Minister, when to sign the document of support and when to transfer the 17 million forints already awarded to the Atrium. What is the reason for the delay in this signature and payment? When can we expect to consider last year's applications, which include the Atrium's HUF 255 million request? And finally, how will the government compensate the losers of the abolition of the cultural tao, decent theatres, when it is clear that this alone has fallen from hundreds of millions of forints since 2018? I look forward to the substantive answers of Madam Deputy Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of Momentum, MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2022-07-11-54	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the secretary of state, Eszter Vitalyos.
u2022-07-11-55	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I am very pleased to see and hear that you are showing a keen interest in Hungarian culture and public culture. I am also particularly pleased that the Hungarian government is so committed to supporting culture that it has put the sector under its own portfolio. Nevertheless, it is vehement, if you like, that we hear strong words here from you about bleeding out, cultural differences, independent experts. Well, honourable Member, we will be able to take each other seriously if we talk seriously about the facts and take into consideration what you have said. He was talking about bleeding out. In the case of the Atrium Theatre and municipalities, he uses this word but what do the numbers say? Let me remind you that from 2018 onwards, in the case of the Atrium Theatre, the theatre tao, the performance-art bonus, the operating and professional programme support resulting from the implementation of the Act of Performing Arts and the National Cultural Fund, the Atrium received nearly 250 million forints, of course, in addition to the ticket revenues, i.e. the market operation. Is this the bleeding of a private theater, Your Honour? I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that it was this government that took over the total debt of the municipalities, even Budapest, and even the district you represent, which can now, among other things, make generous promises to finance the institutions. Once again, honourable Member, is this bleeding? When you talk about cultural differences, I think we understand what you mean, because I didn't say anything like that when, during the articles on the left, commentators wanted the family of right-wing artists to die, when they made obscene remarks about the sacred right hand of our King Stephen, or when the celebration of 20 August was violated, but immediately when a support comes at a rate not expected by you in a global economic crisis. He had to look out for this dramatic genre, because he was one of his fellow ateers who scolded the CHOK loudly, then built a house, scolded the Chinese vaccine, and then first got vaccinated, scolded the family support system, and then bought a discount car. Well, Congressman, I have to say, you guys really have the whole world. You require an independent expert decision on the allocation of grants, but you do not know how the theatrical support system works. The members of the curatorial board of the competition for the implementation and operational support of the 2022 professional programme of the Budapest Metropolitan Theatre and Dance Art Organisations, which are not qualified, have been appointed and appointed by the Mayor of Budapest for the last three years. I hope you know the name of the mayor of Budapest: Gergely Christmas. Honourable Congressman, If you would like to imagine a cultural organization's degree in addition to your degree in economics, please be more prepared and do not make the mistake of joining the ranks of your fellows who are bloody smearing the system of state aid, then they will be outraged if they do not arrive at the expected pace. I propose that we limit ourselves to the facts which indisputably show that, on average, only 0.4 percent of gross domestic product in the European Union is devoted to culture, while we have 1.3 percent in this area. It can therefore be seen that the government recognises and supports all forms of culture that contribute to the aging of the good news of our country, the preservation of tradition and the cultivation of the new generation. We believe that a thousand-year-old Hungarian culture and all its actors should be supported and valuable, and that what is valuable will remain. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-11-56	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I would like to ask the Member to accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2022-07-11-57	Thank you very much for the floor. I was a little surprised by the argumentary logic of the Secretary of State when she spoke about the fact that the self-reliance is an appreciation of the government, because then what teachers think or what the health care workers think. How much does this government appreciate them? But I don't want to get stuck in this one-- let's call it a logical loop, but I'd rather be confined to the facts, as Madam Secretary said. The fact is that we did not receive an answer as to when the aid document for HUF 17 million was signed, we did not receive an answer as to when a decision was made on the application for HUF 255 million, and we did not receive any answer as to how compensation for the theatres has been planned since the Taoel Deletion in 2018. That's why I can't accept the answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of Momentum, MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2022-07-11-58	Thank you very much. I would like to inform my fellow Members that, according to our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Ms Zita Gurmai, Member of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office. At the request of the Prime Minister, Mr János Lázár, Minister for Construction and Investment, who is competent on the subject, will respond to the interpellation. Here.
u2022-07-11-59	Dear House, The fight for the right to a healthy environment has been a huge victory, because the Constitutional Court's decision has declared a few phases of the law that would have allowed the law granting the right to a healthy environment to be avoided by a government decree or even by a municipal decree. The law that has now been canceled would have exempted from the installation restrictions to protect the environment in areas of high importance such as the shores of Lake Balaton. I welcome the fact that this decision has been taken on the initiative launched by the MSZP and supported by other opposition representatives and that they cannot raise concrete monsters on the shore of Lake Balaton. [[15.10]] But we can't stop halfway! If, according to the Constitutional Court, these constructions threaten nature and the healthy environment on the shore of Lake Balaton, then that is true of all the other waterfronts, because there is no doubt that what fails at Lake Balaton can happen elsewhere, for example, on the shore of Lake Öreg of Tata. Avalon Center Kft. In 2020, he announced that Tata was building a big hotel on the shore of Old Lake. However, this investment is indefensible in a number of ways. According to the current real estate classification, it is highly debatable that the area can be built in this way at all, and the construction is such a huge size that a plot this size can't really accept. Although the city's pro-government mayor does a lot to get these obstacles out of the way, the fact remains a fact. In addition, there is a unique natural living space on the shore of Lake Oreg in Tata in Europe, therefore the area is protected by domestic legislation and the highest international conventions. This is the area they want to cement now. And above all, the most important thing is the protection of the people who live here and want to rest, the right of the people to a healthy environment, the silence, the tranquility. It is no coincidence that there was an immediate strong protest against the big investment. Local residents immediately voiced their protests in as many forums as possible. Stop Avalon! a civil society organisation, which collected 7400 protest signatures in just two weeks. Even the pro-government parliamentary representative of the constituency, including the city of Tata, expressed his disapproval and did not support the big investment. The mayor of Tata doesn't care, doesn't listen to the people living there, doesn't take into account the opposition within his own political community. It continues to support Gigahotel investment, probably expecting the local referendum on the subject to be invalid due to low participation. I ask in the name of common sense and in the light of the decision of the Constitutional Court, why does the government not give you the opportunity to plan natural investment on the shore of natural waters so easily, the government plans to make a rule that extends to all of our lakes in line with the Constitutional Court's decision on Lake Balaton [[The president's ringing the bell.]] the installation of the 30-metre band of the coast? Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the lines of DK, MSZP and LMP.]]
u2022-07-11-60	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Mr Nándor Csepreghy, State Secretary, instead of Bálint Nagy.
u2022-07-11-61	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you very much for the floor. Allow me, Congresswoman, to thank you for the interpellation, on the one hand, because it gives us the opportunity to get clean. Without any irony, I say that I think your purpose was nothing but to clarify this situation. First of all, allow me to reassure the Member, as the situation is spookyly similar to what Rebecca Szabó raised in connection with the investment in Balaton, and she could hear me in response from Minister Lazarus last week. Neither in the case of the investment in Balatonvilágos, nothing has happened on the shore of Lake Old Tata, no plan, no license, neither the march of the builders, nor the cutting of the hoe. The case is therefore hypothetical at the moment, regardless of what investors intend. We think it is right to have this debate with the locals. The posture of the Ministry of Construction and Investment here is no different than in other cases. We are interested in all the specific issues, and here too, in what the locals think. As we asked Mr Mihály Witzmann last week about the Balaton case, we asked for an opinion from Mr Bencsik, who, after his individual victory, represents the locals here in Parliament. Our position is that nothing can be built without the locals, and this will also be reflected in the bill that we would like to present to Parliament in the autumn. This is the Minister's posture and this is the ministry's posture in every investment case. And here, Congresswoman, that is the case; the situation is that there is a debate. However, the debate is not yet on how many metres off the coast it is on the verge of needing this investment and, if necessary, the investor and the locals can agree with each other, how much this investment should be. Since the debate is taking place here today, Congresswoman, so allow me, on behalf of the government, to give you the answer to wait for the end of this debate, see what the locals say, get the investor's legitimate local authority to make any investment on the shore of the lake, what the local government says about this, and the government can only establish its own position after knowing the views of the local people, the local government. At this point, it will become clear whether the opinion of the locals or the investor is at all in harmony with each other or not. If all these debates are over, then we can say, as the Ministry of Construction, how and how the government position you have just put forward in this case, which I will say once again, I can only confirm in relation to what your question tells us is that you have now formulated your question in a way that conveys the views of the local people. I therefore ask you to be patient until the issue of this debate is resolved among the locals. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-11-62	Thank you, Secretary of State Csepreghy. I ask the congresswoman, she accepts the Secretary of State's answer.
u2022-07-11-63	I'm going into intensive smurfing, so right now, I'd like to see exactly what's happening. I have asked this question before, and I have been told that they are in favour of the referendum. You know very well that the 31st of July is the middle of the summer, so it is absolutely important that as many people as possible go to the vote. So, with all due respect, as you said, let's get this straight. I am extremely pleased to hear them out, otherwise, the 7400 recommendation to support them in order not to have such an investment, if they had had four weeks, I think they would have been able to collect even twice as much. I therefore believe in any way that my posture is supportive, even because a quarter of the people there have already said thank you, that they do not ask for this investment, and it is obvious that my pro-government fellow Member knows exactly, because he lives there that this was not a good idea. Let's have a referendum, let local citizens use direct democratic means, and I'm asking you to get Fidesz involved publicly, tell the people who live there to go and vote, and then you'll really have a chance to do that because you've got me thinking about [[The president's ringing the bell.]] What your Secretary of State said, by the way, who said we'd see. But what if the referendum doesn't apply? Now, that's the question. That's why I'm smurfing. [[Applause in the ranks of MSZP and DK.]]
u2022-07-11-64	The congresswoman therefore does not accept the answer. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita says no.]] I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, Dávid Dócs, representative of our country, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture. Congressman David Dócs has the floor.
u2022-07-11-65	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Deputy Minister, Hungarian agriculture is the basis for a predictable Hungarian future. Thus, making it accessible and producing it as efficiently as possible is in the interests of the national economy, so the problems we are experiencing are expected to be resolved as soon as possible. With the release of fuel prices, the operation of agricultural machinery does not pay off small farmers or small farmers, who are not subject to the price stop because they cannot enter gas stations with their tractors or agricultural machines, so the only solution for them is to carry fuel in cans and cans to refuel their machines, but they can only do so without any discount and limit of quantity and during harvest. They are not subject to price-stops or the possibility of buying more than 50 liters of fuel, but there are some where this is only 10-20 liters of private wells. Not to mention those engaged in forestry activities or the use of the public, where fuelling into small machinery is carried out without a price stop. Thus, food producers, small farmers and the general public are forced to pay the normal and higher price. Small farmers, forest farmers and farmers who carry the burden of agriculture, which is often not profitable and provides a hard living, do not have enough capital and technology to sustain themselves in these circumstances. We ask the government to grant benefits to those who are actively engaged in agriculture, i.e. farmers or entrepreneurs, their activities are agricultural-related, agricultural-related, and have a licence and a licence for the use of a power machine, and increase the purchaseable amount of State-supported fuel to a minimum of 200 litres. In addition, small and medium-sized farmers are less competitive because of the increased input materials, so we ask the government to provide them with seed purchase aid to ensure that the land is cultivated and sown next year. The smallest producers should also be given all the help they can to ensure that their own and their families make a living, and to ensure that our country is able to survive as little as possible through the trying time ahead. [[15.20]] And the harvested crops are not sent for export, but the government guarantees that they will be bought on the shelves of the Hungarian shops. So far, 7,000 farmers have submitted claims for almost 230,000 hectares, and the damage is already more than 400 billion forints, so we are asking the government to remedy this problem immediately. Despite the government's communication, the compensation will not feed the Hungarian nation, and the immediate solution to this situation will only provide a solution for water management. So my question is what kind of crisis management plan you're going to make for this [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the government, what will you do to ensure that Hungarian farmers...
u2022-07-11-66	Thank you.
u2022-07-11-67	...they can put food on the nation's table next year. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-07-11-68	Thank you very much. I would like to respond to Mr. Sándor Farkas, Secretary of State.
u2022-07-11-69	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, In exceptional circumstances already experienced in Hungarian agriculture, we can say that agriculture is in place during such times, and is still in place in this critical period against the challenges that we are experiencing. The challenges are some of the challenges: labour shortages, long-term droughts, droughts in the summer and now extremely high input prices, and the consequences of the Russian-Ukrainian conflict are inevitable. It can be said that Hungarian agriculture is resilient and that through its capacities we have often said, and I say it now, I stress that we can produce food for some 20 million people on our own, and, if necessary, we can also provide markets with external trade channels in the common market and food economy. The world market and domestic price levels of cereals, oil and protein crops have been rising since 2021, which currently has a decisive impact on the market situation, and last but not least, this means war inflation, as the war has caused the already high price levels to rise to historical peaks. In this situation, much depends on how and at what rate we can adapt to these circumstances in our sectors. The government has always made every possible contribution to adaptation, and will continue to do so. You also asked your question about drought damage. In response to this, as regards the effects of drought, the total amount of grain harvested now is more modest than the average of previous years, but it will certainly cover domestic needs. Water scarcity and drought are expected to pose growing and increasing challenges to agricultural production as a consequence of climate change. In order to manage it properly, there is a need for continuous efforts by both producers and government, and we are therefore operating one of Europe's most advanced multi-pillar agricultural risk management systems. We also made progress in the field of irrigation farming: In 2019 we created the Law on irrigation farming, which provides great opportunities by reducing administrative burdens, introducing irrigation services and regulating and supporting irrigation communities. More than HUF 47 billion can be invested in irrigation development from the applications that have been available since 2016. I would just like to note here, honourable Member, that in the coming months, not only the drought damage, but also in the light of previous ideas, we will be preparing a comprehensive package of measures to reduce drought damage, change climate conditions, a plan that should not be short-term, long-term, not one year, but also for decades, because, in this situation, it should be expected that, with climate change, this will be a lasting period for which it is absolutely necessary to prepare. Of course, such plans have already been implemented in part and in part, but today we believe that these steps must be taken as a matter of necessity. Honourable Congressman, As the Russian-Ukrainian conflict erupted and the Ukrainian crop outflow stalled, the demand for grain stocks increased sharply. In addition to the high market prices, this circumstance has led the Government to introduce an export notification obligation for wheat, durum wheat, rye, barley, oats, maize, soybeans and sunflowers with effect from 6 March. The measure provides an effective and up-to-date view of the market without hindering exports. However, in keeping with the possibility of intervention, Hungary has not lived on any of the announcements, but may at any time avail itself of the right of state pre-emption. Honourable Congressman, You... [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] I'm sorry, I'm over the limit, but I'm happy to continue talking to you in the hallway, whether verbally or not. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-11-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask the congressman whether he will accept the Secretary of State's answer or continue in the corridor. [[Defiance.]]
u2022-07-11-71	Mr President, We will definitely continue this discussion in the hallway. I cannot accept the answer yet, only if tangible and visible measures are to be taken. I'd like to give you an example. I am not optimistic, as the Deputy Minister, as the number of areas sown increased by 30 percent compared to last year's barley, but this year's crop decreased by 10 percent compared to last year's average. This shows that even though we have increased the area by one third, we have been able to come out of the barley crop by Minus. The sandback and parts of the entire Great Plain, but also East Hungary, are at risk of desertification. Therefore, we would like there to be no Hungarian desert after the Hungarian sea, so we need to rethink irrigation systems and the sewer network as soon as possible, because despite the law adopted in 2019, there is less administration. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] But there's less water, there's nothing to water. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-07-11-72	Thank you very much. So you won't accept the answer. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Technology and Industry. Congressman Bence of Turdai has the floor.
u2022-07-11-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. What you failed to read, Mr President, was the title of the question, "The Fidesz lies in the morning, at noon, in the evening, when it has been for months..." [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]]
u2022-07-11-74	Congressman, I'm not obliged to read it, so I didn't miss it. I'll fix it. Go on.
u2022-07-11-75	I didn't criticize the meeting, I didn't want it to be a part of me, I just recorded the fact that the title of the question hadn't been mentioned, so I'm going to give you the address of my interpellation. So the question is, the Fidesz is lying in the morning, at noon, at night when you've been calling extraordinarily expensive Russian gas cheap for months? Instead of lying, will you switch to green energy policy? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Dear Secretary of State, So then Russian gas lying to cheap people isn't the guarantee of a reduction in overhead. In the election campaign, one of their most frequently repeated statements is that the reduction of the rent works as long as Viktor Orbán is the Prime Minister and his good friend Vladimir Putin gives us Russian gas at a price below. It has now come to light that none of this statement is true. According to experts' calculations, after a 3 percent increase in April this year, the average price of the Russian gas purchased by Hungary was 934 euros per thousand cubic metre, thus the resulting amount exceeds the relevant Dutch stock exchange gas price by 16 percent. This, therefore, clearly contradicts the claim that the long-term Hungarian-Russian gas contract would have been such a fantastic business, it is clear that the Putins are even placing a surcharge on their Hungarian friends for the gas price which is already exploding. This means that MVM lost 300 forints in every cubic meter of Russian natural gas. If we multiply this by Hungarian consumption, it comes to the fact that in one month we had to replace the cheaply quoted Russian retail gas price with over 100 billion forints, which in reality was purchased much more expensive than the world market price. So they weren't telling the truth, it would be a minimum expectation that they would admit it, and that they would publish reality in at least the same amount of time as they lied about it during the campaign. Sadly, in addition to the abundant extra profit, this also means that Hungary, the Hungarian taxpayers, is financing Putin's war against Ukraine. Dear Secretary of State, Did you really lie through the entire election campaign with promises built on non-existent cheap Russian gas? So maybe the government shouldn't build on the war criminal Putin, but on green energy, energy efficiency, building insulation, if the Hungarians really want a low rent bill? I'm curious to hear your answer. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita applauds.]] [[15.30]]
u2022-07-11-76	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Zsófia Koncz.
u2022-07-11-77	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, allow me to start by saying that I am convinced that the personal nature of the other person and, in any case, the lying of the other person does not necessarily help Parliament's cooperation, and that in such a difficult war situation, it is in the interests of the Hungarian people. So I think that the Hungarian people do not expect us to do this either. I wanted to highlight this at the beginning. But let's get down to the content issues. Over the past year and a half, Eurostat has reported that energy prices in Europe have increased by 40 percent. As a direct economic consequence of the Ukrainian war and as an impact of EU sanctions on Russia, Europe is hit by the most serious energy crisis ever. Together, war and sanctions have led to Europe's most expensive energy in the world today, bringing the continent into a serious crisis. In a long year, you have to pay six times more for gas and pay five times more for electricity. Last month, Germany announced a gas crisis, and even the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Change called for the early deployment of coal plants. This is about the Minister who, as a green politician, previously demanded the closure of coal power plants out loud. I guess they're not gonna lie to him. Because of the war, the question is not how much energy it costs, but how much energy it even takes. So that's the kind of question we need to talk about. Honourable Congressman, 85 percent of Hungarian gas consumption comes from Russia. It's not some kind of Russian friendship, it's because of the geographical and infrastructure capabilities of our country. If we gave up Russian gas, the consequences for Hungarian families and the Hungarian economy would be inconceivable. However, according to the government, energy security is not an ideological issue, we need Russian gas for the functioning of the country and the economy and for ensuring affordable energy for people. In 2010 Hungarian families paid the most for gas and electricity compared to their wages in the European Union. Thanks to the reduction of the rent, the Hungarian people in Europe are currently paying the least for energy: the lowest price for natural gas and the second best price for electricity. The petrol stop ensures a price of 480 HUF per litre, which is the cheapest in the European Union, so Hungarians do not have to pay 800-900 or even 1000 HUF for a litre of fuel. Without a reduction in the cost of electricity, the price of utility charges in Hungary would increase brutally. According to analysts, the monthly bill would be 101,000 forints instead of 22,000, which is 79 thousand forints per month, more than 948 thousand forints per year. If you look at it, it would cost an average Hungarian household an extra HUF 1 million. There is often a political accusation that the government is not green enough to support sustainable development and environmentally friendly development. On the other hand, the truth is that Hungary is moving faster to meet its energy and climate policy objectives. Between 2010-20, we supported the development of energy efficiency in residential buildings by HUF 120 billion; 40 thousand applications were received for the public solar and heating systems launched in 21th century. We ask you and the left-wing factions not to want to harm Hungarian families and to support the Hungarian government in helping Hungarian families in this difficult situation. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-07-11-78	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2022-07-11-79	Madam Secretary! First, Hungarian people expect a clean and honest speech. As a matter of fact, they are now receiving it between the lines, which may also be your autumn speech: he said that it does not matter how much the gas costs, but that there is at all, and he did not deny that we are paying the most expensive gas prices in Europe. The Hungarian people pay this brutally expensive gas on two channels. Yeah, it's just a small part of the bill, so maybe the yellow check doesn't come with such huge amounts, but it's paid by the same people in the form of taxes. So when I said that the extra cost of HUF 100 billion per month for this Hungarian society is an extra cost of 1000 billion per year, yes, this may amount to up to HUF 1 million per household. And who's gonna pay for this at the end of the day? The Hungarian budget. Where does the budget come from? From the Hungarian taxpayers. What would the budget spend this money on if it weren't to pay for the brutally expensive puppy gas? Then, for example, we could raise wages in the public sector, raise family allowances, and so on. Of course, I cannot accept your answer. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita applauds.]]
u2022-07-11-80	Thank you very much. I would like to inform the Parliament that, according to our agreed agenda, the decision will take place on our meeting tomorrow. Dear Parliament, Máté Kanász-Nagy, representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior. At the request of Prime Minister László Palkovics, Minister of Technology and Industry, who is competent and competent on the subject, State Secretary Zsófia Koncz will respond to the interpellation.
u2022-07-11-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Today, the public sector workers in Hungary earn an unworthy amount of money. The increase in already low public salaries has halted, the public employee pay table has not been touched by the government for several years, it is only covered by wage allowances. The income situation of the majority of civil servants has deteriorated significantly over the last ten years, many people are earning around the minimum wage, while the minimum wage rate is the worst in the European Union compared to the average wage, only 35 percent. How can a man who works for the store, or for all of us, earn only as much or less as the minimum wage? The government is endangering the quality of public services by deceiving the wage catch-up of public sector workers. If there will be no change and there will be low wages, more and more teachers, social workers, police and municipal civil servants will be dissatisfied, out-of-court, perhaps out-of-country. Green policy aims to improve the well-being of people, families and communities. But the quality of life only improves if quality public services help Hungarian people. Quality public services require paid and respected workers. In the Scandinavian countries, 25-30 percent of workers are public service employees. We have this rate below 20 percent. There is a lack of workers, because there is a lack of adequate levels of pay, targeted training, quality working conditions. Unfortunately, today the state is the worst employer in Hungary. At home, the wages of central administration workers are the fifth lowest in the EU, earning twice or three times as much to the west. Moreover, inflation is far above 10%, which on average takes a month's wage away from civil servants. Wages in education and the social sphere are among the worst in purchasing power. I also look at the European Union. Teachers are so valued by the government that the salary of a first-time teacher is HUF 312 thousand gross, which is a fraction of the salary of his Austrian colleague, who earns EUR 2358, or nearly HUF 950 thousand. Social workers struggle to make a living every day. How is it possible that a graduate social worker here makes a gross HUF 351 thousand, while his Austrian colleague earns more than 900 thousand forints? I ask the Minister or Secretary of State what the government's employees are really worth. Thank you very much.
u2022-07-11-82	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Zsófia Koncz.
u2022-07-11-83	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I believe that there is no difference of opinion between us that public service is one of the noblest tasks. The government has therefore taken significant steps in the interests of public sector workers in recent years. Since 2010, there have been significant increases in salaries in addition to career plans, with the government only spending HUF 800 billion on this year's wage increases. From 1 January 2022, 20-20 per cent of employees in the social field, nursery and cultural sectors received a wage increase. The salary of teachers increased by an average of 50 percent between 13-17 and 10 percent from July 20 and from January 22 onwards. [[15.40]] As the government announced several times last autumn and since then, it intends to continue to raise the wages of teachers. After the 10 percent increase in January this year, we plan a 10-10 percent increase for another two years, i.e. in 2023 and 2024. More than 32,000 teachers' wages in vocational training increased by 30 percent on average from July 2020. We've had the biggest medical raise ever. The average wages of doctors increased by around 2.5 times between 2010 and 2020. In line with the multi-year overall wage development programme, it continues and nurses have been able to take home 72 percent more since 2010. In four years, law enforcement and defence staff received a uniform 35 percent salary improvement, and in early 2022, the professional staff received six months' so-called arms money, plus a 10 percent salary increase from this year. It is also important to mention the increase in the guaranteed minimum wage, which has increased to HUF 260 thousand. In addition to professional and moral appreciation, these measures also strengthen the financial appreciation of the work of public workers. Since 2010, gross earnings have increased by around 117 per cent and by more than 120 per cent by 2021 and by 128 per cent, taking into account family tax incentives. Honourable Congressman, Of course, we do not think that we have reached the desired level overall, but it is undeniably that we have made greater progress than ever since the change of regime. There is no debate between us either that it would be good to provide multiples for public sector workers, but I would also ask you to acknowledge the steps already taken and the results achieved. The war in Ukraine and the European response to it are raging in inflation across Europe. At present, due to daily energy prices, no one can say what the outlook for the economy is. The government's main task is to ensure energy supply, and also to protect families, pensioners and full employment. I would like to ask Mr President, on the basis of what has been said, to accept my answer and to ask the LMP faction to support the Government, in the spirit of constructivity, in defending our achievements so far in the uncertain international and European economic situation caused by the war, because it is in the interests of all of us, in the interests of Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-11-84	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2022-07-11-85	Thank you very much for the word and the answer. Madam State Secretary reminded me of the efforts that have been made. After the great effort, a beginner educator is currently earning HUF 207,000 net, a starting policeman earns around HUF 200,000, a social worker doesn't even make that much, he earns HUF 150 to 180 thousand. Therefore, I do not consider these to be a priority effort. You mentioned there was no argument between us. Where I see a debate, it's definitely government anyway and members of the government. Minister Martin the Great said a week ago that wages should not be raised in the current inflation situation, in this practice the state should be at the forefront, i.e. not raising wages. Fortunately, Minister Gergely Gulyás corrected him a few days later, that Martin the Great's position was not the government's position, and the wages must be preserved. If wages need to be maintained, where is the 10-15-20 percent wage increase that compensates inflation? This is also the claim of the MKKSZ, by the way. I can't accept an answer until I see this raise. Thank you very much.
u2022-07-11-86	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with our agreed agenda, the decision will take place tomorrow at our meeting. Dear Parliament, Attila Barcza, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister for Economic Development. Congressman Attila Barcza has the floor.
u2022-07-11-87	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Why is the left attacking the extension of the price stops? There is war inflation, which will only cease when there is peace, so it is not with the support of war, but with peace making that it is possible to act best against inflation. As an economic impact of war, there is huge inflation in Europe and the world, and energy prices have increased drastically, and the price of products has also increased, partly as a result of sanctions in Brussels. The most important goal of the government is for Hungary to stay out of the war and not for people to pay for the war. The most important thing now is to preserve Hungary's peace and security, and to ensure the country's energy supply and to protect the cost reduction. The government achieved that inflation would be 56 percent lower than it would be without it, and therefore, in the war situation, pricestops should be maintained, so the food and petrol stop will be extended until 1 October, and the credit moratorium and interest stop will be extended until 31 December, for which the Fidesz fraction will grant all support to the government. We are committed to continuing to protect Hungarian people and, through this, to protect the Hungarian economy and our achievements so far. Once again, the main issue on the left is how to tax Hungarian people, Hungarian families. In recent years, statements on measures to restrict transport have followed one another, e.g. Deputy Mayor Gergely Christmas on congestion charges. Such efforts on the left are not unknown, since a number of statements have been made in recent years that threaten to reduce the costs. We can also remember the previous ideas and sentences of the left regarding the reduction of the overhead, which sounded like this, and now I ask all my fellow Members to pay close attention, and I will quote, which is a shocking quote, which Péter Márki-Zay, we can say, said by the fallen star of the left, which has since passed away, what a fool it was in the past to reduce the overhead. You can cut the rent, of course you can. Less water should be used, less electricity should be used, less gas should be used. The problem with these irresponsible steps, such as the reduction of the rent, is that they are very easy to promise, give, and it is extremely difficult to eliminate. Here's the end of the quote. The government's decisions to protect families have been attacked by the left all along. It would be worth choosing a new approach and supporting the Hungarian interest. Ensuring energy supply and maintaining the cost reduction remains our priority. On this basis, I ask the Secretary of State why the left is attacking the extension of the price stops. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-11-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2022-07-11-89	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, In essence, the opposition is attacking the price stop because now two decades of looking back gives us the opportunity to compare a left-wing economic policy and a right-wing economic policy. This comparison was also made by voters when the parliamentary elections of the last few years, over a decade, or even during the local elections of the last days or months, decided as they had decided, and continue to support the economic measures of the civilian government, the measures that protect people and protect the Hungarian economy. These measures, the reduction of overhead costs, and the pricestops, reduce today's inflation by about 7-9 percentage points worldwide. Without the price stops, inflation would be 15 percent in Hungary or above. In the current war situation, the government considers it justified to maintain price stops and therefore extended the food and petrol stop until 1 October, the credit moratorium and the interest rate stop until 31 December, thus providing additional protection for families. Before the expiry of these deadlines, the Government will decide that the circumstances which give rise to an extension after those dates continue to exist. [[15.50]] On average, the gas stop saves 21,000 forints. At the highest prices of the seven basic foods recorded at the mid-October level last year, Hungarian communities and Hungarian families can register significant savings. If I mentioned the comparison at the beginning, it should also be said that, indeed, there have been several times during left-wing governance that the average pension, the average salary, has been reduced. In 2007, the real value of the average salary decreased by nearly 5 percent, even though there was no global crisis or war. The right-wing government, on the other hand, reduces taxes, raises wages as far as possible, gives pensions to pensioners, gives back the 13th month pension, maintains the cost reduction and the price stop. The Left did not support or vote for any measure. He did not vote in favour of the reduction of the rent, he did not vote in favour of the interest rate stop, including the fuel stop, and even all measures to protect the families were attacked in the campaign. As you mentioned in your question, a number of elements have been attacked by the reduction of the overhead, the gas stop, the food price stop. The left would have dragged Hungary into the war; they would have voted in favour of cutting off oil and gas, thus raising the price to the heavens. Before 2010, everything was taken away and increased; families paid the price for crises at that time. Today, that is not the case; we do not think that this should be burdened on families. The direction of action of the right-wing government and its impact are fundamentally different from that of left-wing governments. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-07-11-90	Thank you, Secretary Major. I ask Secretary Barcza to accept the State Secretary's answer.
u2022-07-11-91	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, I accept the State Secretary's answer and it was shocking to hear it here too, and I think that the Hungarian people and as much of society as possible should always be told again that they really did not vote for the left, the opposition did not vote for these decisions; they have a strong opinion on the regulations and energy policy. The idea of reducing the cost is that less water should be used, less bathe to save people money on copper. They'd cancel the rent cut, but we're not gonna let that happen. I would like to thank the Hungarian Government for this, and we continue to ask that, even in the difficult economic situation, it is in the best interests of the people and that we keep the reduction of the rent. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-07-11-92	Thank you, Congressman, who has accepted the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Imre Vejkey, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior. Congressman Imre Vejkey has the floor.
u2022-07-11-93	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, As we have heard from the news reports, on the first weekend of July, at dawn on Saturday, two groups of migrants, armed near Subotica, in the Makkhesetes forest, extending to the Hungarian-Serbian border. The case also has one fatality, and six migrants came to the hospital with gunshot wounds, among which a 16-year-old girl is in the most serious condition. Unfortunately, the event that ends with tragedy can happen easily and very quickly, even again, in a short time. In police footage, and in videos uploaded to each social media site, it is clear that Horgos, along with the border fence, is walking around in his hands at night and day with more migrant firearms, with even meters of rifles. As Minister for Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó referred to during his visit to Subotica, the migratory pressure rose to a new level of danger. The migrants are becoming more aggressive, more violent, armed and using their weapons. As a result of the war between Russia and Ukraine, Hungary's southern and eastern borders are at the same time burdened by the increasing migration crisis and the refugee crisis caused by the global food crisis that has seriously affected the Middle East and North Africa. More than 10,000 people arrive in our country from the east every day from the beginning of the war, while the number of illegal migrants detained at the southern border has already exceeded 110,000 this year. Meanwhile, smugglers helping migrants to get to Hungary have properly divided the Serbian-Hungarian border among themselves on the Serbian side, where their territories are protected against each other by bloody killings. In addition, smugglers often threaten the lives of migrants, considering the number of unfortunate people transported in crowded cars, trucks or trucks, especially in the current bustling summer heat, since people smugglers, ignoring the housing conditions, are simply trying to get to the quickest destination and profit. They are not alarmed by past or foreseeable mass disasters. In the midst of a drasticly corrupt situation, our borders will continue to be protected by our police and soldiers with honor and stamina, and for their courage they will be honoured and thanked. Dear Secretary of State, We can see that the global crisis caused by the war is bringing about another wave of migration. Therefore, I ask the honourable Secretary of State how we can protect our country from drasticly increasing migratory pressure. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-07-11-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2022-07-11-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, this shooting not far from the border, armed conflict had to make more clear to everyone. One is that smuggling is not a humanitarian activity, but an organised underworld activity, where underworld methods are used to control areas where they are trying to smuggle hundreds of thousands of these people to the European Union, and they are not deterred by any means. The other, which is obviously obvious to everyone in this case, must be that this trend will increase in the coming months. The fact that the European Union is in another major geopolitical crisis and is busy with its own affairs and sanctions policy in the Russian-Ukrainian war, which offers people smugglers an even greater opportunity, even more they believe that it is worth continuing this activity in the future, bringing as many people into Europe illegally as possible, because Europe will be weakened, the European authorities will be weakened, and they will be able to bring even more crowds of people here, and they will increase their activity even more. The figures also support this in recent months, since while at the beginning of the year there were around 3,000 attempts at illegal crossings per week, this is now more than twice as high as 6,500. And if I look at the full numbers, 114,945 people tried to enter Hungary illegally until 10 July this year, while, last year, we will be there in the middle of July, as we were at the end of December last year. The number of captured smugglers has also increased, until last year 445 has been captured, this year 861, so the number of smugglers has also increased. It is therefore clear that what is needed is to protect the Hungarian southern border for a long time, and to do so without the trained police officers serving only at the southern border, but to set up border hunting units. The Prime Minister has also said this last week that the establishment of border hunting units can start with about 2,200 people, but this must be a flexible force to go up to 4,000 people. Obviously the officers, the leaders, the commanders come from the police, who control this activity, but here in the everyday tasks on the border, border hunters will also be able to be involved, as you can see from these figures that autumn will be very hot at the Hungarian southern border. And we can also see that anything can happen in Europe, whether it is the shooting of gangs of smugglers, or that in hundreds of cases we can talk about the attack on Hungarian police officers, the taking out of arms, the shooting of weapons, the damaging of the border fence, the breaking into the windshield of Hungarian police cars, the damaging of the border fences, the aggressive use of violence against persons, whether against objects or against persons, is increasing, not only in the no-go zones, but here at the Hungarian southern border. [[16.00]] This fence, this border protection, also protects us from this effect, although the European Union has only covered a fraction of the 600 billion forints that we have spent so far in border protection, somewhere between 1.5 and 2 percent of what they stood for, and more than 98 percent of what we have paid to protect the common European border. We have also seen that there is no political group of the left now, there is no section of the Gyurcsány Party that has not already taken a resolution on migration and anti-fence in recent years, which makes it clear that they would give up the Hungarian national position in this case as well, and would release migration, the migration that seems to be [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] as Europe's own defence capability is reduced, it is being exploited and growing. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-11-96	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congressman to accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2022-07-11-97	Dear Secretary of State, Dear Secretary of State, I appreciate your reply and accept it. Unfortunately, the fact is that migrants are more aggressive than ever in order to achieve their goals, now, as you said, Secretary of State, they are not afraid of armed attacks, not only with stones, sticks, slingshots, marbles, gas sprays and ladders, but also with firearms. And with all their efforts, the smuggling gangs are trying to satisfy their hunger for money by bringing together as many illegal immigrants as possible into the territory of our country. The work of our police and soldiers is necessary in order to ensure the security and armed protection of the entire territory of our country, and we therefore welcome the Prime Minister's announcement of the establishment of a separate Border Protection Board and the establishment of border hunting squads. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-11-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will move on to the next agenda, with immediate questions. Mr László Kordás, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Technology and Industry an immediate question:, How do you think this is, Minister? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr.Zsófia Koncz authorised the Secretary of State to reply. I would like to ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding.
u2022-07-11-99	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2022-07-11-100	It says yes. Mr László Kordás has the floor.
u2022-07-11-101	Dear Secretary of State, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, They cannot say from the government's side what difficult times come with inflation, rising taxes, falling forints, recession. I would like to set an example of how these workers are living, and it will be seen that you are the ones who make life difficult for them in the first place. János Áder talked about joint successes and Hungarian pride in 2014 at the foundation of the solar cell factory in Csorna, but instead he became a series of scandals that did not want to end. The project, planned for 15 billion, was implemented with a state grant of HUF 1 billion and EU funding of almost 2 billion. From the investment promised by the end of 2015, the building was completed with a delay of one and a half years. It was still empty in 2018. Production started in 2020, with a loss of billions. In the meantime, OLAF initiated an investigation and the government nationalised the company which owns this company in part, Kartonpack Inc. Even though many were wondering what had become of the public money invested, the investigation by the D.A.'s office was closed in the absence of a crime. Six years ago, an irregularity investigation was initiated, but it was completed the other day, and it has not yet become legal. We could also say that everything is going as usual, that the aid loses its public money character, and that the cost is paid by the workers. They were sent to work hours because the production stopped, but their wages have not been paid for four months. They can't earn another job, but they don't have a living. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] That is why I ask the honourable Secretary of State: when will workers in Csorna receive their legitimate wage? When are you gonna pay the money you've already worked for? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2022-07-11-102	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Zsófia Koncz.
u2022-07-11-103	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for expressing your concern about the situation of the Hungarian working people. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, before 2010, you were a political secretary of state at the Ministry of Employment and Labour and a consultant to the Director-General of the Employment and Social Affairs Office, but, in my view, the employment policy at that time was not so successful in any way. Fortunately, since 2010, we have been able to achieve huge results, create one million jobs, reduce the unemployment rate completely, reduce the unemployment rate to 3.5 per cent; there were times when it was 12 per cent. The youth unemployment rate was terrible before 2010. I think that we have been able to change these rates very nicely with a consistent employment policy. For the government, the safety of Hungarian people and Hungarian families is the first. Thanks to the work of the last ten years, as many people have never worked in Hungary as today. After the epidemic situation, we were able to achieve this situation, because our priority during the epidemic was also to protect jobs, and we provided all the help we could in doing so. In the specific case, I can inform the Member of the following. At the beginning of July, there was a notification of the solar cell factory in Csorna, which led the employment monitoring authority to investigate the company last week. The investigation is ongoing, and I can provide you with this much information until successful completion. If it is found to be necessary, inter alia, the Wage Guarantee Fund may provide support to cover wages. Congressman, I ask you to support the government in working for the Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-11-104	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Congressman László Kordás has a one-minute rejoinder.
u2022-07-11-105	Dear Secretary of State, Today, it may not be news to anyone that you are stealing public money, whether it is an EU source or a domestic source. You practically didn't answer my question. For four months, the people working there have not been paid, and neither does the government seem to be able to act in this case, nor the labour inspection, which is to do so. The fact that an investigation was launched after four months also does not apply to the wages of four months ago, since four months ago, these people have not been able to buy in stores, in the midst of a period of serious inflation such as the one we are living today. So once again, Madam Secretary, when will these workers receive their rightful wages? I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that these workers are waiting for the reply of the Secretary of State with the help of the Internet, so take this fact into account when giving the answer. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-07-11-106	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also possible by the Secretary of State.
u2022-07-11-107	Thank you very much for your contribution, Mr President. It is simply not possible to ignore the timing of the announcement in such a case. And, as I began to comment, this announcement came to us in July. Of course, the procedure has started on the official road, and we will not leave the Hungarian families or Hungarian people in trouble, and as we have done for other companies, we will do everything we can to help them. I ask you, honourable Member, to support the government in these measures and not to be guided by the ideas before 2010, but to always be about the Hungarian people. [[László Kordas: Four months ago!]] And I'm asking for your support in this. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-11-108	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Peter James and Daniel Z. Carpathian, representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question. The Prime Minister does not reply personally, because of his absence Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, has given him the right to reply. I ask Daniel Z. Carpathian, who is present, to accept the person of the responder.
u2022-07-11-109	With all due respect, we'd like to wait for the Prime Minister.
u2022-07-11-110	They'll wait. Thank you. The Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. [[16.10]] Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Karpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister for Economic Development an immediate question. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. János Fónagy gave the right to reply. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] It indicates that yes, you have the floor, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian.
u2022-07-11-111	Mr President, Dear House, In the draft budget before us, the Government of Hungary plans to support both families and children, with an amazing exchange rate of three hundred and seventy-some forints, but it forgets to talk about a special tax that does not resemble the special taxes that we have discussed in the last few weeks. There we said that after a pact with the banks, it may not be so surprising that the banking sector special tax, the transaction fee, is allowed to pass on from HUF to HUF to customers, Hungarian citizens and family members. But there is one other factor, which is equal to the special tax, and this, Mr. Secretary, is a very weak forint. Once again, you are planning only three hundred seventy-some forints for next year, while in reality this has already looked below 416, and although it is strictly forbidden to be a counter-suspector, because it would indeed be treasonable, but let us say that there is no Hungarian family that can exclude itself from the effects of the incredibly weak forint. I have been told here several times in Parliament to buy Hungarian products, and I also do so whenever I can, but, Mr. Secretary of State, even in the case of domestic fruit and vegetables, if the machine is to be imported from abroad, if the spray is to be imported from abroad, and this is typically the case, there is also the extremely weak effect of forints on prices, not to mention the additional price-expensive effects of petrol and products to be supplied. Thus, the burdens of families, inflation, weak forints and the threefold impact of a dried-up economic environment are quite amazing, and this is a tragic situation, Mr Secretary of State, against which essentially no protection has been granted. Recently, the average amount of family allowances per child has already exceeded the average amount of VAT to be paid by a Hungarian citizen raising a child into the state register, so now they are slowly taking multiples of the amount put into one pocket out of the other pocket, especially if they do not do something with the weak forint. The question arises: what is your plan to fix the HUF exchange rate? [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2022-07-11-112	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2022-07-11-113	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, The government's goal is to preserve the results achieved so far. We have undertaken to protect families, the purchasing value of employment pensions, and the reduction of wages, while maintaining the stability of the budget. I suppose you don't dispute it either, and from your examples it is clear that about 80 percent of domestic inflation is the result of foreign influences, and the Hungarian economy is also performing well in these circumstances. According to Eurostat data in June, inflation in Estonia in the euro area is at 22 percent, in Lithuania at 20.5 percent, in Latvia at 19 percent, but also in Belgium at 10.5 percent, in Germany at 8.2 percent, in the Netherlands at 9.9 percent. We are also good at regional comparison, in Slovakia 12.5, in Bulgaria as well as 13.5, in May data, by the way, in Romania 14.5 percent, in Poland 15.6. Therefore, without debating the situation in Europe and the world economy, I believe that Hungary is in a good middle field under these circumstances, and I am convinced that in these circumstances, taking into account our actions, Hungarian families can count on the government. We have introduced the policy of the four price-stops, which reduces inflation by about 7-9 percent in addition to the debate, which is well-defined by you. If they were not, inflation would be much higher. Thank you very much.
u2022-07-11-114	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman.
u2022-07-11-115	Mr President, Dear House, The inflation figures referred to by the Secretary of State, as I have already mentioned today, also measure the price changes of the writetable DVD and the price changes of the stereo tower capable of playing the CD. Look at the increase in basic food prices, but even the inflation measured by this braked foaming was 8.3 percent in February, 8.5 percent in March, so it crawled nicely up even before the war period, so war problems found an already weak economy. That is why I find it very harsh that the government does not have any plan to control the forint exchange rate, and that, in the context of the inflation situation, these will trigger a negative spiral, so I will get you to rewrite, if necessary, the Hungarian National Bank Act. Be it for you, and let the Hungarian National Bank have an exchange rate goal, so finally finish the discount of the multinational companies with the weak forint, finally get on the side of the Hungarian families, because it is clear that they are in great need now and have plenty of means to change this. The question is whether the government is going to take this path, Merie is going to defend the Hungarian forint.
u2022-07-11-116	Thank you, Congressman. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State.
u2022-07-11-117	Honourable Congressman, You are well aware that the VAT reductions that have been implemented over the past period have particularly affected the area of the food industry that you have just referred to, so we have significantly reduced VAT on pigmeat, poultrymeat, eggs, fish, milk, restaurant services. The Hungarian National Bank has a strong exchange rate policy, and you know that the prices of the world and Europe are essentially driven by the price of energy today, because of the price of energy, because of its high price, the euro has weakened compared to the dollar, and this also moves the forint, and not the internal measures. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-07-11-118	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, András Fekete-Győr and Ferenc Gelencsér, representatives of Momentum, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás has given the Prime Minister the right to reply. I would like to ask Members to accept the person who is responding or to ask the Prime Minister for his answer in person.
u2022-07-11-119	Mr. Speaker, With all due respect, we'd like to wait for Prime Minister.
u2022-07-11-120	Thank you very much. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Kristóf Márton Tompos, representative of the Momentum, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister an immediate question: who is responsible, Minister? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, he asked Minister Levente Magyar to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister for his answer in person.
u2022-07-11-121	Yeah, sure, I'll take it.
u2022-07-11-122	He'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-07-11-123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Almost a month ago, I asked the then representative of the Ministry what was going on with the Russian cyber attack. In 2012, the Russians hacked into the Hungarian State Department's systems, they were everywhere, and they were kicked out in 2013, but in 2016 they crawled back. I had three questions for the Secretary of State with a bright eye, or I don't know how to call you now, this is a bit of a squirt, I'm sorry; so, my question was that, on the one hand, you told the Russians to stop. On the other hand, have you told EU and NATO partners that there is a problem? And third of all, have you managed to kick the Russians off the servers since then? I didn't get an answer to this series of questions, but I didn't give up so easily, I wrote to 103 places, embassies, ministry, companies, what about this. The State Department confirmed that I shouldn't worry, everything's fine, they changed passwords, they updated firewalls, they changed all kinds of privileges, so everything's fine, and that's very good, but we didn't know exactly what the point was that the Russians were still on the server. [[16.20]] So now I would like to ask the Secretary of State to answer these questions, who is responsible, what is the situation. Are the Russians on the servers? If so, who can we thank for not having this removed? If not, who is responsible for this, Mr. Secretary? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Momentum, Dialogue and MSZP.]]
u2022-07-11-124	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Magyar Levente.
u2022-07-11-125	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, It has been mentioned several times between the walls of this house that Hungary's geographical location and geopolitical location are of particular interest to requests from both western and eastern directions, influence attempts, various information acquisition trends. I would like to stress that not only from the east, but also from the west, this is a historical gift and should be seen as such. Since we are in such a geopolitical situation, such a geopolitical role, since it is a historical legacy that Hungary is a key player in the region, and there is a particular interest in what political decisions Hungary is making, what economic decisions it is making, it is therefore appropriate for these attempts, attempts to penetrate, and for the bodies that are intended to prevent them. These bodies have the capacity and the capacity to ensure that these experiments are not successful or less successful. If the Ministry of Foreign Affairs detects that I emphasize it from any direction, from the east, from the west, from the south, from the north, an attempt is being made to obtain or influence illegal information within the State System, it shall take the necessary measures without delay. In part, it has its own competence to do so and, in part and in large part, through the notification of the bodies which, as I mentioned, are intended and trained and equipped to prevent these experiments. The Member may believe that we always act in accordance with the laws and in the spirit of Hungarian sovereignty in these cases, and that the co-organs perform their duties in a competent manner. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-11-126	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman Tompos.
u2022-07-11-127	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. I am well aware that I have only been a Member for two months, but I am aware that the Hungarian government will treat a three-day chinch smell as a partner before virtually anyone in the opposition; but I would like you to respect us so much that in a case where everyone's data has been stolen from this country by the Russians, regardless of their party position, then tell me: do you have the data of Hungarian entrepreneurs, Exim, the people, companies and organizations in contact with anyone? Did the Russians finally get kicked off the servers? It's a matter of choice. If not, we understand. I asked the IH. I asked the AH. They both said they weren't data controllers. That's why I'm coming to you. Please respond to this. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Momentum, Dialogue and MSZP.]]
u2022-07-11-128	Thank you, Congressman. The rejoinder also deserves the Secretary of State.
u2022-07-11-129	Congressman, you appear suspiciously well-informed, or you do have substantial information. I'll thank you for sharing these with us. I do not know, Mr President, that everyone's data has been stolen from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, regardless of their party standing, and that is what you have just said. So my request is that if we talk about these issues, we do so with sufficient seriousness. So to say that Hungary has suffered a general cyber-attack in the context of foreign affairs, it is not in the least fit for reality. What I can confirm to you in this forum is that any attempt to penetrate the State Department's systems is happening regularly, as I have said once again that, especially now, due to the Russian-Ukrainian war, Hungary's geopolitical role is being appreciated, such experiments are taking place regularly from the West, the East, the South and all directions. We will always do everything in our power to prevent them, both through the specialised department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and through the services that are intended to protect Hungarian data, and these countermeasures will usually succeed. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-11-130	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Tamás Bellozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I ask Congressman Bellozó to accept the person of the responder, or...
u2022-07-11-131	Out! [[Defiance.]]
u2022-07-11-132	He'll take it. Then you don't have one. You have the floor.
u2022-07-11-133	Thank you very much. Although if I knew you'd come in, Minister. [[Sic!]] I would have addressed my question to the Prime Minister, as Prime Minister said the following in his speech at the police discharge on 2 July. As a result of our joint work, Hungary has now become one of the safest countries in Europe, and Budapest has become one of the safest capitals. This should be appreciated, because in the coming decades, the order and security of a country will be the greatest advantage in international competition. Security rates are constantly rising. Order and security are Hungary's toughest currency. It is a fact and it is true that the forint cannot say this about itself, but, Mr. Secretary of State, if security is the toughest currency, then I do not understand why I have to hold in my hand the monthly statement of a monthly salary sent by the Hajdú-Bihar County Police Department, which says: plus HUF 199 061. First paycheck. I'd like to point out that it's free, with a language exam. It's pathetic that you're involved. And indeed, it is a sad situation, since young people do not apply to police training. While 3528 applied to vocational secondary school in 17th grade, only 989 applied in 2019 and more than 74 percent less did it. In the meantime, you will announce in haste that border hunting units will be set up; with contract staff, but there is no way to know exactly how. Three years, tops, for a gross salary of 260,000 forints. They do this by trying to find bus drivers on the back of buses for HUF 434,000 to do this job; you are looking for a co-worker for a gross of 260 thousand. I'd like to ask you, Secretary of State, when will police, Bv and fire department be honored? When are you going to understand that without an immediate increase of at least 30 percent, this profession is going to collapse? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Applause in the benches of Momentum, Dialogue and MSZP.]]
u2022-07-11-134	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. (Dr. Lajos Szűcs in the notary seat) Replaced by Dr. Winner Vinnai.)
u2022-07-11-135	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We were there together at this clean-up, and we can indeed be proud of what the young people provided there, and we can be proud of the performance of the Hungarian police, because in 2010, before 2010, no one thought of your side that we were able to do what the Fidesz-KDNP government managed to do, that the number of crimes decreased by one third. They said that this was an unattainable goal, but they managed to achieve it in the last 12 years, and indeed, not only do we say this, it is not only shown in statistics, it is not only said by Hungarian people, but when foreign stars come from Hollywood, they come here to shoot from elsewhere, they tell us that it is a completely strange experience for them to walk out at night in Budapest, that girls can walk alone on the streets of Budapest at night, because they do not experience it in many cities either in America or in Europe. Thank you indeed for all the police officers that we have been able to create such conditions, that one of the first sentences of even those who come from abroad is how safe we live in Budapest, and we can see that the crime rate of a third is indeed very high. [[Sic!]] If you look at it, this is not a coincidence, because while the last left-wing budget received HUF 449 billion for law enforcement, you now have HUF 966 billion. This is much more than twice the previous amount. With this additional cost, we managed to achieve more, and, of course, thanks to strict criminal law, this started in 2015, when there was a 50 per cent improvement, there was a performance grant of HUF 8 billion per year, housing support of HUF 2.8 billion, which could be used to buy a flat for HUF 20 million, or to expand a flat, to modernise a loan of HUF 5 million, forint 20 million. But there are other subsidies, which are all for the police, and there was not only a 10 percent increase in wages now, but also six months of arms money for our police officers, precisely to acknowledge their work, which they do in the country and at the border. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-11-136	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman Bellozó. [[16.30]]
u2022-07-11-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, the success propaganda you've just said makes the Prime Minister's words completely unbalanced, discredited and lying. Please understand that you can't even keep the existing stock with that kind of money. Only since July 1st, in the first few days, has 300 officers officially filed their discharge papers. For 260 gross, some kind of contract border hunter won't make it. In 2016, we submitted to Parliament the proposal to have a separate border police unit within the police force with 12,000 people. You voted it off, you voted it off. And understand that this thing will only work if, right now, at least 30 percent wage increase is given to the executive staff at least, otherwise, let alone new border hunting units will not be here in the fall, but the existing stock will also fall apart. I'm asking you to understand that and make a move. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2022-07-11-138	Thank you, Congressman. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State.
u2022-07-11-139	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I trust you argued at least with such passion when the left took a month's wages from all public sector workers, including the police, that it could not be done. But it seems they didn't listen to your arguments there, Your Honour, and you took me away from the police and didn't pay the firemen's overtime. This was the situation of the Hungarian police in 2010. Then the police had a professional staff of 33 450 people, and now 36 790 people. You were talking about 300 people submitting their resignations after the outbreak's resignation moratorium. If you look at the number of months after, in an organization of 36,000, this is between 1 percent [[Sic!]] I don't think it's as high as it looks. However, the government has, of course, always agreed that the work of police officers should be valued; it should be valued at the overall level of society and, of course, estimated at the financial level. We showed you how we were able to raise our wages, and you showed us before 2010 how to cut the police's wages. The difference between the two is enormous not only in numbers but also in omens. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-11-140	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Dóra Dúró, representative of Mi Hazank, Vice-President, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás has given the Prime Minister the right to reply. I will ask the congresswoman, Madam Vice-President, whether she will accept the person of the response or ask the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2022-07-11-141	I'll wait for Prime Minister's personal answer. Thank you.
u2022-07-11-142	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Dóra Dúró, representative of Mi Hazank, Vice-President, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister an immediate question. Due to the Minister's absence, he appointed Minister of State Magyar Levente to respond. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity. [[For signal:]] Dora Drill with her head says yes. You have the floor, Madam Vice President.
u2022-07-11-143	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ukraine could become a candidate for accession to the European Union without any conditions being met, according to the decision of the European Council. We are talking about the state that banned Russian music, Russian, Russian books in a law. Such an intention to destroy culture has so far been met only in the Taliban-controlled areas. A similar collective stigma is used by the entire Western world in the field of sport, when international sports associations punish Russian athletes on the basis of collective guilt. But the most painful thing for us Hungarians, however, is that it is a state that has also ruined the rights of Hungarians in Transcarpathia for decades. What does the Hungarian government do? He stands in line, and Viktor Orbán also votes to make Ukraine a candidate country for the European Union. You have done this instead, Mr State Secretary, to draw the attention of the international public to all the things I have just said, but instead you voted for the candidateship of a chauvinist state. The fact that the European Union is applying double standards has already become commonplace, as, for example, the rule of law proceedings against Hungary are being brought to the fore, but Ukraine's violations have also been overlooked in this case. My question, Mr State Secretary, is why you have not acted more strongly in favour of Transcarpathian Hungarians in international fora, or why you do not object to the double standards of the European Union in this case as well. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-07-11-144	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Magyar Levente.
u2022-07-11-145	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Congresswoman, The Hungarian government has done nothing for Ukraine and Transcarpathia for eight years, but stands out in every international forum in the strongest possible tone to restore the weakened rights of Transcarpathian Hungarians. In 2014, the process of the Ukrainian revolution, which led to drastic restrictions in Ukraine, started to restrict the enforcement of minority rights. Obviously, the Hungarian minority fell into this. This national community has suffered outrageous violations, and accordingly, having been the cornerstone of our foreign policy and guided by the preservation and improvement of the living conditions of the rights of foreign Hungarians, the Hungarian Government has generally, once again, expressed its expectations of Ukraine in the most determined manner possible in this regard, and has drawn the attention of international partners to the need to remedy all these violations. At the beginning of 2022, however, there was a dramatic change in world policy in Ukraine, with Ukraine's focus, namely: the Russian-Ukrainian armed conflict broke out, which also placed our space of manoeuvre in a completely different dimension, and rearranged priorities. At present, Hungary's most important task is to protect Hungarians from Ukraine and to ensure the safety of Hungarians from Transcarpathia, which is why decisions have been taken, for example, in relation to the supply of weapons, but I could also mention further measures, which indicate that they were primarily defined according to the criteria of the Hungarian community in Transcarpathia. So to accuse the government of not doing everything in the interests of the Hungarian minority in Transcarpathia, I think it is timeless. The Transcarpathian minority is the most important aspect, according to which Ukraine's policy is determined by the government. Now we are at war, and now our primary task, as the entire international community, is to make every international effort for peace, and once peace is settled, then we will take matters that have not been resolved with Ukraine until the unfortunate outbreak of the war. Thank you. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-11-146	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Madam Vice President.
u2022-07-11-147	Dear Secretary of State, I have asked a specific question on a specific case, namely: concerning the vote in favour of Ukraine's candidate status, which you have done so that you know, the European Union knows, and Ukraine knows that Ukraine has become a candidate, and Ukraine knows that Ukraine has been admitted not to fulfil, for example, the conditions required to become a candidate in the protection of minorities. Then why do you have these conditions? Moreover, it is extremely dangerous to open up this opportunity for anyone to become a candidate, a mister's pardon, and later even a member, so that the European Union has turned a blind eye to the fact that, for example, the Hungarian minority has been terrorized by this chauvinist state for decades. It is not true, Mr. Secretary, that you have done everything you can. You have repeatedly missed an opportunity to protect the Hungarians in Transcarpathia. I hope it doesn't happen again. Thank you. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-07-11-148	Thank you very much. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State. [[Novák Előd: Non-mandatory!]]
u2022-07-11-149	Madam Vice President, After, as I mentioned in my reply, Hungary, the Hungarian government's Transcarpathian policy, is determined by the situation of the Hungarian minority in Ukraine, we have also decided in this respect on their behalf. We believe that the granting of candidate status to Ukraine also serves the interests of the Hungarians in Transcarpathia, and the interests of the Hungarians in Transcarpathia, which have been put at risk. [[16.40]] In addition, when you are talking about cultural crimes committed by Ukrainians, let us add that there is a war going on against Ukraine to destroy the identity of the Ukrainian nation. So I think that we should be a little more balanced and fairer than Ukrainians in this regard. And once again, the war overrides the priorities, the current priority is to restore peace as soon as possible, restore peace, contribute to it, and then we will take out the unsolved issues that are undoubtedly pending, without which Hungary will not be able to support Ukraine's accession to the European Union. We are talking about candidate status, and until full membership, Ukraine has yet another embarrassing, very long and very bitter path in which we will insist on meeting all the conditions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-11-150	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Szabó Timea, representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás has given the Prime Minister the right to reply. I ask Congresswoman to accept the person who is responding.
u2022-07-11-151	Out.
u2022-07-11-152	He'll take it. You have the floor, Congresswoman Timea Szabó.
u2022-07-11-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, we learned from the press a few days ago that from July 1st this year, the traditional adult-pants diapers of TENA Slip have been removed from the social security circle. This pant diaper, this adult diaper, may be the one laughing now, because you find it very funny for elderly, demented patients and patients with congenital disabilities to be the most used. According to the calculations of KSH, this affects 300,000 people in Hungary today, if we count both the elderly and the disabled. We know that getting out of the 30 percent circle of support means that the monthly cost of these most vulnerable people will increase by 15,000 forints a month when the price of bread has increased by 40 percent in the last year, when inflation keeps making life more expensive, and these people, for whom no one, but you, in the least, speak up and do nothing, suffer more and more. Tell me, Minister, what is the amount of money the government saves on this, which drives these disabled people and elderly, demented, immobilised people even more into poverty, forcing them to pick up money day by day to survive the month. How much does the government save on this? And does the government plan to help hundreds of thousands of people? In English, can you expect to get this circle back in the social security system, this adult-pants diaper? Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Momentum.]]
u2022-07-11-154	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás.
u2022-07-11-155	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and Gentlemen, When replacing the Prime Minister with the questions put to him, it is equally difficult for me to react in the form of an immediate question about the avoidance of a particular type of diaper from social security. Thank you so much for bringing this to our attention. I'm going to look into why you're out of this circle, there's any reason, whether it's a substitute product or something, for which it doesn't cause this kind of damage, and if it's causing this kind of damage, like you're telling me, how it's gonna get back. [[Applause in the ranks of MSZP and Momentum.]]
u2022-07-11-156	Thank you very much. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the congresswoman.
u2022-07-11-157	Thank you. Let me give the Minister a little help. On the one hand, we asked the Prime Minister the question because it is not clear from the Gazette who made this decision. We don't know if this decision was made by the Minister of Finance, the Minister of the Interior or by which body. It certainly affects hundreds of thousands of people, and once again, the most vulnerable. I am glad that you are open to this question, but understand that this does not only concern a few hundred thousand people, but if you look at the families as a whole, these people are usually cared for by home care professionals, this could reach up to 1 million people who, let's say, receive a net HUF 130,000 per month from the government. They can't pay for such a 15,000 forint, they can't survive, especially when the Prime Minister's salary has risen to 3.5 million forints in the last month. When the government spends 30 billion on motor racing, MotoGP, when it raises the budget for secret services and government communications by 30 billion, they don't save on the most vulnerable. Thank you.
u2022-07-11-158	Thank you very much. You have the chance to rejoin the Minister.
u2022-07-11-159	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Madam Fraction Manager, I understand that the mandatory must be said in all speeches, including in this, but there are already factual errors and errors, such as MotoGP's claim that is not true. But the point of the question is, if I can only speculate, I'd better look into it. A professional decision on the social security support circle is usually made, not a political one, so something is avoided when requested by either the manufacturer, because it cannot produce enough or if there is a substitute product that can be achieved with less social security support. So I'm gonna have to look into it, and then I'm gonna be able to answer your question. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-11-160	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi and Máté Kanász-Nagy, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question. Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, the Minister who led the Prime Minister's Office was entitled to reply. I ask the Members to accept the person who is responding or to ask the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2022-07-11-161	Thank you, Mr. President. We'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2022-07-11-162	Thank you very much. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Technology and Industry an immediate question. Because of his absence, Minister Zsófia Koncz asked for a reply. I would like to ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding.
u2022-07-11-163	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2022-07-11-164	It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman László Keresztes.
u2022-07-11-165	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In recent weeks, a great deal of attention has been paid to the terrible state of the Hungarian water utility system. There has been a shortage of drinking water for a longer or shorter period of time in several municipalities and parts of the country. With the state of the system and the serious problems it is facing, the government is well aware, since, in addition to professional organisations, local government associations, such as the Association of City Rights, draw attention to this almost annually, giving the government accurate information on how serious problems we are facing. We can say that the water utility sector in Hungary is practically on the verge of collapse, and despite the fact that this situation has developed, the government has been failing to act for years to put the current situation in such a delicate way. And what we can say is that if the government does not take action, in the medium term, drinking water will collapse in Hungary and the protection of water bases will collapse. Madam Secretary! Since 2012, the number of failures in the water utility system has doubled, with the proportion of waterworks systems with a risk rating exceeding 80 per cent today, i.e. the ratio of systems with an appropriate rating below 20 per cent, as appropriate. There are 22 percent network losses, so while we can see that water shortages may occur in several parts of the country, 22 percent of drinking water produced will flow without use due to bad pipelines. Many of the utility companies are on the verge of economic collapse, struggling with a lack of expertise, they simply have no chance of doing the appropriate preventive maintenance and replacement work, so the problem is growing exponentially. In 2020, I asked the Prime Minister in the form of an immediate question, who acknowledged that there was a shortage of thousands of billions of resources in the system in the medium term. In comparison, we see, Madam Secretary of State, and this has also been said in today's debate, that you intend to spend HUF 4-5 billion a year on water utility maintenance work, while it would require some HUF 200-300 billion. Madam Secretary, if we look at the figures for next year's budget, we see that the government has decided not to deal with this fundamental system problem. Thank you in advance for your reply. [[Applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2022-07-11-166	Thank you. I give the floor to Secretary of State Zsófia Koncz.
u2022-07-11-167	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government is committed to developing and modernising high quality drinking water. The livestock drinking water supply is 100% in our country. At national level in 2020, 82 percent of households and 90 percent of cities and 62.5 percent of municipalities were connected to the sewage collection network. [[16.50]] In recent years, the Ministry of Technology and Industry has prepared a national water utility public service strategy with the involvement of stakeholders in the sector, which aims to provide short- and long-term solutions to the challenges facing the entire water utility sector. While nearly 400 organisations provided drinking water services and sewage treatment in Hungary in 2010, these integration processes decreased to 40 by 2020. This will bring about economies of scale, increased security of supply and a uniform level of service. National Waterworks Ltd. was established in 2020. From 13 June 2021 it was possible for municipalities in difficulty and the water utility providers owned by them to participate voluntarily in a National Waterworks Ltd. in an integrated process coordinated by the Commission, thus allowing for the smooth provision of continuous care everywhere and the long-term operation of the systems concerned. An important success is the reduction of household costs. Since 1 July 2013, there has been no increase in the burden of the population on the use of water utilities. Calculated, this meant savings of approximately HUF 120 billion to retail users. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I would like the Member's support for the further development of the water utility.
u2022-07-11-168	Thank you, Madam Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Crusade.
u2022-07-11-169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. For years, I have been a great supporter of finally receiving water utility companies, and it is fitting that the municipalities receive the resources that I repeat need to prevent the drinking water supply in Hungary from collapsing, Madam Secretary of State. We fully agree that this important utility asset must be in national hands, so essentially in the hands of the state and the local government, but it is not a good tendency to force local governments to transfer water resources into state reserves by blackmailing them in this way. This is not the solution, because here for accurate planning, good maintenance schedule, we need local responsibility, local timing, so basically the aim is for local authorities to be able to maintain water utilities, while at the same time providing resources from the central budget. My question concerns, Madam Secretary of State, exactly what timetable and from what source the government will provide at the annual level hundreds of billions, which is needed to ensure that the most important public service in Hungary, i.e. healthy drinking water and the protection of water bases, is sustainable. I hope that I will be given a concrete answer to this question. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2022-07-11-170	Thank you, Congressman. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the Secretary of State.
u2022-07-11-171	Thank you very much. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, as I have already said today, in order to avoid economic uncertainty, at the end of 2020 the government granted state aid to water utility providers owned by a loss-making municipality through the owner's municipalities for nearly HUF 4 billion. In 2010, the Hungarian government did not exactly inherit a well-established water utility network, between 2018 and 20 the government supported the reconstruction of water utilities with HUF 4.5 billion and efficiency improvements with HUF 3.5 billion in 2019. These developments must obviously continue. I would also like to thank the Hungarian water experts once again for their conscientious work. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-11-172	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ms Boglárka Elijah, Member of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question.
u2022-07-11-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dear House, Today we are witnessing the endless rampage of the left, many not only witness but also sufferers. Another example of this is the mayor's plan to build sheeplings in the capital's housing estates. The Gergelys of Christmas base this freaky idea on the fact that it was implemented 20 years ago in a French city called Lyon. The sheep story is still just a normal pointless left-wing idea, but the 600 forint parking fee is now a reality. Christmas does not depart from the war against the motorists, which began after his election. Remember Mr. Mayor's proud message to those in Budapest's traffic jams: get out of the car and walk. According to the custom of the left, he drinks wine and preaches water, considering that Gergely Christmas prefers to err in the bus lane with her office car, from which several cameras have seen the light of day. Don't forget about Gergely Christmas's absurd decision to paint an unjustified amount of cycling lanes throughout the city, making traffic impossible, not to mention the tension generated by motorists. Who wouldn't be pissed off in traffic by the empty bike lanes, which are mostly used by bike couriers during working hours. Last week, in traffic, we shared water with the Fidelitas, and we couldn't find a Christmas sympathizer among them. But it is no wonder that many people regret that they voted for him, because while Gergely Christmas is proudly sipping her latte in her own kitchen at 10:00 in the morning, it is understandable to all of us: getting into Christmas's work is not a cardinal issue, but it is a matter of life for us in Budapest, for us students, for workers, for family mothers and fathers. Dear Minister, Hungary is currently facing more important problems [[The president's ringing the bell.]] It's not like they're gonna become sheep eaters in residential areas. We have created the Trust Fund, we are struggling with the inflation caused by war, the economic crisis, the increase in prices, and we are helping those who seek refuge from the horrors of war.
u2022-07-11-174	Thank you very much...
u2022-07-11-175	I ask you, it is necessary for Budapest to become a sheeplinger. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-11-176	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás.
u2022-07-11-177	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear Parliament, Unfortunately, the situation is disappointing in Budapest, because indeed, while the city has a thousand problems, problems and difficulties, not a small part of these were produced by the current metropolitan leadership, while Sándor Bardóczi, the main landscape architect in Budapest, not to the Ludas Matyi, but to a theoretically non-funny newspaper, declares that a murderous dispute is going on in Budapest about the removal of the lower quay in Pest, while Lyon, for example, has been over 20 years ago, people have taken over the beach, and sheep are grazing in the settlements. Do you imagine the same in Budapest? He's asking the question. We do not want to imagine this in Budapest. In the beginning, we believe that it is worth ex ante consideration of the suitability of certain public offices; I do not know that anyone who gives such an interview is certainly qualified to be a main landscape architect in Budapest. But what is certain is that for the time being Budapesters are forced to experience after the two-and-a-half-year operation of the current Budapest leadership, that neither to travel nor to park in Budapest, a self-identifying Budapest leadership has caused traffic jams in the city that have obviously increased pollution to multiple times. (Believe Dezső in the notary seat) Replaced by Sándor Berki.) We also see that they define bicycle lanes without concept, mind, or reason. Of course, cyclists have a place in the life of a big city, and it is probably true that this place is becoming increasingly important and more important, but that the designation of bicycle lanes was without reasonable consideration, the example of the Grand Boulevard is the best. Without the quays, as we are now experiencing on the Buda side, Budapest's transport stops and under no circumstances knows [[The president's ringing the bell.]] the current Budapest transport can handle the fact that there are no quays. So we see inconclusiveness. We hope that the Mayor will find out that others want to live differently. [[The president's ringing again.]] In the capital like him. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-11-178	Thank you very much, Minister. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the congresswoman.
u2022-07-11-179	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Unfortunately, we see this happening, if you want to put the theory into practice rather than the meaning, this time not hyperpassively, but hyperactively, and I very much hope that instead of creating fake problems, the leadership in Budapest will start to deal with real problems. If the metropolitan leadership and Gergely Christmas won't come to better judgment or get better judgment, then I am very confident that in 2024 the voters will help this decision. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-11-180	Thank you, Congresswoman. You have the chance to rejoin the Minister.
u2022-07-11-181	In the meantime, we would like to give you some good advice, such as the capital, so that you can complete the Biodomo, because there you can also find areas suitable for the experiments that you want to do here in the residential area. [[17.00]] It would also be good to reduce the idea of a 600 HUF per hour parking fee, because this year's inflation in the world will undoubtedly be the highest inflation rate in the last 40 years, but this will not be 50 per cent, but around 10 per cent. We would also be pleased that if the congestion charge were to be cut off from its already failed idea, and at least while they are still leading the capital, I would not make life more difficult for the people of Budapest, especially in the field of transport. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-11-182	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Imre Vejkey, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Miklós Soltész was entitled to reply. I ask the congressman, he accepts the person who is responding.
u2022-07-11-183	Yes, thank you very much.
u2022-07-11-184	It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman Vejkey.
u2022-07-11-185	Dear Secretary of State, It's hard to find words for the reproach the left has dedicated itself to. Even in 2022, the opposition is in the swamp of the Autumn Speaker, and still only learns morality from the Kiskos of Ferenc Gyurcsány, which was already dictated by Ferenc Gyurcsány in 2006. Congressman László Varju has attacked Father Csaba Böjte, which is not worthy of the left, because he wants to use the pain and suffering of children to capitalize on political capital. Just as Ferenc Gyurcsány tried to spread his own responsibility and the radium of his own lies, now Congressman Varju tried to link the criminal act of an employee to Father Csaba Böjte. Remember, it is the Father Csaba Böjte who has been setting an example for decades for all of us in service, care, and faith. This is about Father Csaba Böjte, who entered the Franciscan Order back in the 1980s, when, from today's democratic boob banging, the world champion left had no idea, even in a feverish dream, that other opinions could once be heard between the walls of Parliament. Remember, Brother Csaba put his life on the line to help the fallen, the poor, and the orphans. He is an extremely hardworking man who tries to help anyone who comes to him, and many colleagues, well-meaning, volunteer supporters, help him. I ask Mr. Secretary of State why the left is attacking Csaba Böjte. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State.
u2022-07-11-186	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State, Miklós Soltés.
u2022-07-11-187	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Congressman! Accusations and reproach were made, especially from the words of László Varju. Charges and abuse against Csaba Böjte, the Saint Francis Foundation of Déva and the government and Fidesz-KDNP. He said these things: you are the party of child-killers, the Fidesz is again covering for their child-harming ally, the government side is protecting child-killers. It's a total abuse, and I have to say, it's definitely tasteless, as this tastelessness doesn't stand far from the left. I mean, if you think about the fact that a few years ago, when the mermaid's disaster was here on the Danube, nearly three dozen people lost their lives, then Szabó Timea was orbing and making all kinds of lying allegations. Similarly, there was no distasteful politics on the part of Péter Márki-Zay or on the left during the Covid epidemic, when various sentences were said about the pity of the patient, the pity that only so many people would die, or the indication that Fidesz was not going to win very much, as the elderly Hungarian population was decimated by Covid, and they voted largely for Fidesz. Unfortunately, what has been said is that Brother Csaba Böjte saved children before the '90s when Ferenc Gyurcsány's friends, relatives and acquaintances paroled with Ceauşescu [[Defiance in DK's ranks.]] This company, who are now having fun with the fact that Brother Csaba raised more than 6,000 children with his community, maintains 26 boarding schools, 46 daycare facilities, and, by the way, six years ago, he himself turned to the authorities in this matter, the result of which has now been achieved. After that, the people who laugh, laugh, laugh. [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] They abuse him, hurt him, attack him in a distasteful way. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-11-188	Thank you very much. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the congressman.
u2022-07-11-189	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your reply. You can't find words for what happened. The sinner must receive a worthy punishment, but it would be absolutely desirable for such vile expressions to fade out of public speaking. When Congressman Varju called the governing parties and, in fact, us child-killers, I felt different emotions. At first, an angry anger, because it was a petty lie, a petty slip, and then I was confused when I tried to embrace Mr Varju's logic, whether, thinking about the famous photographs of our fellow Member, Zsolt Gréczy, I should also get out of Mr Varju's handshake. Finally, regret and pity became the master, because I find it a terrible thing that in 2022 the left has no moral standing, so much the opposition is in the pocket of Ferenc Gyurcsány, that it no longer has the power to distance itself from such an impossible declaration. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-11-190	Thank you. You have a one-minute rejoinder for Secretary of State Soltés.
u2022-07-11-191	Congressman! The saddest part was when I was watching opposition representatives on the left: they were having fun on his sentences instead of dealing with the consequences of what was happening to them. Let's say in 2003, there was a rape within the MSZP. Any consequences, gentlemen? It wasn't! [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: Kaleta! Tivadar Fohsz!]] Did Zsolt Gréczy have any consequences? [[László Sebian-Petrovski: Talk about Kaleta!]] First he denied it, resigned, and then he's back in Parliament. [[Lot. Erzsébet Németh: He has won every lawsuit!]] The same is happening now: another is being accused, the authorities are making a fully legitimate judgment, and then the decision, and then a man or a community who has earned respect for everyone around the world, not only his respect but his support. Therefore, Csaba Böjte can continue to count on us, the children who were saved will continue to count on us in the future. Thank you for your concern. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-11-192	Thank you, Secretary Soltes. Dear Parliament, We will move on to the next item: questions. First, Mr László Sebian-Petrovszki, representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister for Economic Development. It's for the congressman.
u2022-07-11-193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. According to the Prime Minister, very difficult times are coming; Judit Varga said that there are very large cuts in the budget. For once, both of them were telling the truth, but the question is why they kept saying in the budget debate that there was no austerity. One of the means of austerity is inflation, which is also called the tax of the poor; you also tax the poor with honor, without mercy, especially food. To tell you only some fresh data, new data will be published every day: green peppers, margarine, chicken legs cost one and a half times as much as last year, bread, pork fat, cheese, eggs were more expensive than one third. I could go on, but why would anyone who goes into the store see exactly what's going on? Even though you lie, the reason for the increase is not the war, but partly the special tax that you have imposed on businesses, and they pass it on to consumers, and partly the fall of the forint. Let me get you some data on the last one. In 2010, when you took over the government, we were looking at a euro of 267 HUF, and last week we were looking at 417. [[17.10]] But it wasn't because of the war either, because already in 2012, after just two years of government, they reached 310 HUF/forint, and then after a few years of stagnation, in 2019 it started again, speeding, and thus rose to the current level. It is also said that, because of the war over the last few months, but the surrounding currencies, the Polish złoty, the Romanian lei and I could list no such signs. Dear Secretary of State, This is what happens, not war inflation, this is inflation in Orbán, you do it, you do it, you do it with the forint deprecating. My question is, how long do they hope they can do this unpunished? Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2022-07-11-194	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2022-07-11-195	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, Old truth is, the sun doesn't wake up because the rooster is crowing. You know it's war, war drives energy prices. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: It's not true!]] Energy prices are driving inflation worldwide, and the dollar is increasing against the euro, which is what drives the forint. There is a war at the borders of Europe and Hungary, and you know it. War and sanctions in Brussels bring economic crisis, war inflation, price increases and uncertainty across Europe. You know that only peace can end this. That is why we are calling for peace to be settled as soon as possible and for sanctions to be avoided in Brussels. As regards its figures, according to Eurostat's latest figures, inflation reached 22 percent in Estonia, 20,5 percent in Lithuania, 19 percent in Latvia, 12.5 in Slovakia, 13.5 in Bulgaria, 14.5 in Romania, 15.6 in Poland and 16 percent in the Czech Republic. Congressman, do you think we're pushing inflation up in these countries, too? Please believe me, the sun doesn't wake up because the rooster is crowing. It's the other way around. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-07-11-196	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, János Bencze, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-07-11-197	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Minister, Everyone who lives on agriculture and looks down on the ground or looks up at the sky can predict the future of what will happen, metaphorically speaking, the future of their own economy. When we look down on the ground in East Hungary, we see burnt soil, look up to the sky, see a cloudless blue sky, and the vision of the future is very sad. Smaller amounts of crop, lower income, and the work invested is the same. If we ask what we can do, who can help us not to do so, to help farmers, the answer is very simple: the government with two thirds, and the primary thing is to reduce drought damage. Farmers need immediate help. From what I hear, you're gonna get this. However, the second half of the question is what we can do in the future, much more complicated and complex, because the earth does not lie. In spite of the fact that Hungarian agriculture is performing better, the Hungarian land will perform better, it will not work as a result of climate change. Climate change has been known for several decades, and we should do something about it in Hungary. I would like to ask what the government intends to do to eliminate the disadvantages of climate change, what will happen to water retention and what has happened to the Vásárhelyi plan, what has happened to the millions invested in it, and who has benefited from it. This is important because more water is known to flow from Hungary than it flows, and we must keep that water. My question is very simple, Minister: what does the Hungarian Government intend to do to ensure fair water retention and water retention in Hungary, so that our agriculture works? Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2022-07-11-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas.
u2022-07-11-199	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, You have given your pre-written question a different address than what you have just asked me orally. Apart from that, I'll try to answer that, if you don't mind. [[János Bencze: Thank you.]] First of all, what the government has done for farmers affected by drought, let me think about a few things. Now, by the deadline of 4 June, a drought damage report has been submitted for compensation of some 322 000 hectares, and we would like to help these farmers in a manner appropriate to the agricultural compensation scheme. At the same time, I would like to draw the attention of the Hungarian economy and you, too, to the fact that we do not always have to wait for help. There are situations, there are crisis situations when it is inevitable, but in a planned-thinking farming society, you also have to think about the agricultural insurance system, because in itself it is not the solution that I am just waiting for something to happen and the state will help me out. I, too, as a producer, have a responsibility to plan economic processes. I would just like to draw attention to this because it is extremely important, and it is true that, in recent years, more and more insurance is being made by farmers, but we need to strengthen this even more, and we need to draw attention to this. Our agricultural crisis insurance system has also started, it has worked already, and we have had the opportunity to make serious payments in the last year. Irrigation development in 2019 was the oral question in relation to the written question, and I would like to inform the Member that there have been a lot of measures, a lot of steps, a lot of investments in Hungarian agriculture and the development of irrigation in the Hungarian countryside, which are partly coordinated and partly local. They can't stop. Therefore, in the coming months, we will be working very hard to revisit not only the old plans, but also the old used channels, the possibilities for renovating them, and by autumn we will be at your disposal with a new casting plan. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-07-11-200	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Löcsei, representative of Momentum, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question. You have the floor, Congressman Levoèi.
u2022-07-11-201	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The supply of high-quality and healthy food to people will be one of the most important challenges in the coming years. Food supply and food self-determination are strategic and security policy issues. I assume that the Minister agrees with the statements mentioned above, and we do not differ in our view that, in line with the role of agriculture, the training of professional replacements must also be of sufficient quality. The Minister recently said at the end of the year of the Hungarian University of Agricultural Sciences and Life Sciences - "The Hungarian agriculture is essential for working in agriculture and the food industry with innovative, modern knowledge, who are able to use modern digital tools in a future-oriented way through strategic thinking. The challenges to be met in agriculture and the ideas expressed by the Minister on vocational training point to the need to strengthen the training of professionals. However, the budget of 2023 states that some HUF 1.4 billion is planned to be deducted from the agricultural secondary vocational education and training institutions compared to the previous year's budget. Of course, stakeholders do not yet know anything about how to implement it. I therefore ask Minister how the above-mentioned withdrawal of funds will affect agricultural vocational education and training, planning to pool certain schools and possibly abolish them as a result of the above-mentioned withdrawal of funds. I look forward to Minister's substantive reply. Thank you very much.
u2022-07-11-202	Thank you, Congressman Levočei. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas.
u2022-07-11-203	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to respond appropriately to the sum of 1.4 billion forints you have outlined, even because it is not withdrawal. I would like to inform you that, in recent times, the Cegléd, Karcag, Turkish Szentmiklós school has been handed over to the Reformed Church, while the Tokaj school has been handed over to the Tokaj-Hegyalja University, and due to the obligation to transfer funds, it is necessary to transfer funds to schools. Therefore, this did not reduce the support of the Agricultural Ministry for vocational education and training, but these schools continued to receive this amount. [[17.20]] It is true that this is no longer included in the 2023 budget, but these schools are no longer among our agricultural centres. I would like to confirm what you have pointed out that, in the coming period, not only must we respond to the challenge of environmental, nature conservation and climate conditions, but we must also learn new technologies for each farmer, young farmer, who chooses this profession, this way of life, this way of life, this way of life. For this reason, the Agricultural Ministry spends a great deal of time to ensure that, through the new agricultural vocational training centres, these centres can ensure, in accordance with the new educational conditions, new opportunities, new techniques and technologies, that yes, these students are the most modern, the XXI. They should also be able to use state-of-the-art techniques and technologies. Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to this fact, Mr President, that this withdrawal, returning to its original question is not a withdrawal, is only a transfer to schools that are not our maintainers, but at the same time this amount remains available, and we are doing everything we can to ensure that in these schools there really is vocational training that meets the challenges of this age, in order to continue to be a safe food producer for Hungary. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-07-11-204	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Imre Komjathi, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-07-11-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, My fellow Member, Jobbikos, asked you a similar question, but the answer was that your professional knowledge was accompanied by such irresistible charm and grace that they could become a living legend today. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] But that's not enough. The thing is, you've been ruling for 12 years. During the 12 years of governance, you have been raving about the fact that here you will be building a series of irrigation canal networks, that farmers will receive all the support they can to switch to irrigation technology, and in the answer we have just mentioned, we have heard that they will now come up with the old plans, and then they will see what they can do. I am aware that if you say the word water, then you usually see the picture of the luxury yacht rocking on the Adriatic. I also believe that when they hear the water, they will remember, let's say, a few more hijackable winters on the shore of Lake Balaton, let's say, a little einstand at Lake Venice or Lake Fertő, but there is drought, damage to farmers, need help, and Tiborc's complaint is not much heard by the Fidesz lords. Let's say not the Tiborcz I'm thinking of, he hears, but thank you very much, he and his partner are standing on our feet and on the electoral feet. That is why I am asking what the government is doing to help farmers affected by drought. What irrigation system and sewerage system have been supported over the past 12 years? How much EU funding has been provided for this? And if they didn't support it, why didn't they? If they were built, supported, why can't farmers use it? Thank you for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2022-07-11-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas.
u2022-07-11-207	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Water may mean to you what you said, water means life to me, and water means life to every Hungarian farmer. Therefore, I strongly reject these adjectives that have attacked us in this direction, even because this means that you, who live here in the capital and between the panel, have no idea [[Imre Komjathi: Edel!]] What is agriculture, what is water management, what is that irrigation, melioration activity. I am very sorry, Congressman, that you have little idea of this. That is why I take the liberty of offering to you, as I did to the former Member of Mi Hazank, that I would be very happy to talk to you in the corridor a little bit about the profession, so that you know what these terms mean. As a practicing farmer, I dare say this to you, and in this particular way, I must insist that I do not answer as you have asked, because I will not do you this favor. I'll stick to my professional past, stick to the fair answer to you, but I can't answer questions like that, and I don't want to. I will tell you this, Mr President, that according to our statistics, there are 178,000 hectares of water rights. This is not being exploited by all farmers, partly because they do not have the conditions, or have planted a culture, not a culture that can be watered today. I would also like to tell you that until 2024, as planned, in the coming years we will be creating new irrigation areas in some 100 to 130 thousand hectares, and this is expected to be a very high figure of about 25 percent increase, when I am fully aware, and I was living in the profession, agriculture and irrigation when, at the end of the 1970s, there were 350 to 370 thousand hectares of irrigation in Hungary. We need to get back to that level at least, but we need to increase this area to at least 400 thousand hectares by 2030. We have the opportunity, we will have the resources to do this, and I ask you to have the patience to agree with me that this is a professional issue and not a political one. Thank you. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-07-11-208	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, President Novak, representative of our country, wants to ask a question to the Minister for Culture and Innovation. At the request of Minister Antal Rogán, the Minister of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister, who is competent and competent on the subject, will answer the question, Mr Csaba Dömötör State Secretary. You have the floor, Mr. President Novak.
u2022-07-11-209	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, The title of the question I have put forward is: Why is an LGBTQ-propagandist directing the most expensive Hungarian film of all time? We could be glad that, after many years of government failure, Hungarian films, including a Petőfi film, will be carried out with more than 6 billion forints of state support, but its director is Balázs Lóth, who conducted LGBTQ propaganda in a TV series as a director. The 200 first dating TV stories are written in the LGBTQ theme, which gives details about homosexual propaganda, which, according to the article, can finally shape the vision of television viewers in a positive direction. But I think the promotion of deviants is a very bad way to go. What is interesting, Balázs Lóth conceals from the National Film Institute that he was involved in this, that he is absent from his filmography, but the port.hu does not forget, we find the sign of the crime there. Why do you leave the most expensive Hungarian film of all time to such a person, Mr. Secretary of State? By the way, the director's wife, Anita Lóth-Szabó's Facebook profile is currently a rainbow LGBTQ propaganda. For a long time, we have been demanding that high-budget feature films presenting the glorious periods of Hungarian history be made. The current government has a serious deficit and debt in this area. In the long half century since the shooting of the Egri stars in 1968, perhaps only now will great feature films be made about the various glorious episodes of our history. State film policy in historical themes was more of a remorse. On the other hand, the Hungarian Movement would strengthen national consciousness, the attachment to our country, by consciously focusing on periods and actors such as a game or action film that could be made of Rags Guard or the Battle of Bratislava that would strengthen our national pride. But that shouldn't be left to an LGBTQ propagandist. Do you admit that? I look forward to your reply and to your substantive action. [[István Szabadi applauds.]]
u2022-07-11-210	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör.
u2022-07-11-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me, Mr President, to begin by saying that the Hungarian film support system has been working successfully for years, which is confirmed by a number of prestigious international recognitions. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that professional bodies decide on the award of individual grants on a professional basis. They're not directors, they're productions. This also means that the level of support and the fact of the aid depend on the quality, value creation and predictability of the funding of a given tender as a whole, not just on certain members of the apparently large number of creative teams. I can't take a stand on the basis of what considerations people make available their professional careers, but I think that this is not the government's job. At the same time, considering his question, film-based professionals informed us that this director was not the sole creator of the television series in question, but that he was one of the five employees, but this may not be the most important issue. If you say that there is a great need for works of art presenting our significant historical events, then I agree with that, but I believe that you can read about the results of this endeavour very often. [[17 .30]] As is usually the case in creative art, there are many expectations about the works, regardless of which I believe that Grey nobodys, Eternal Winter or Tiny Tales were able to meet a wide range of expectations together. We hope that in the near future there will be a number of films in the cinemas that process the glorious moments of Hungarian history and not guilt. I could mention the film of Attila Vidnyánszky, directed by Attila Vidnyánszky, the work about the Golden Bull, or the Hunyadi series, and the purpose of the work you mentioned is to commemorate the events of 1848-49. It is the government's job to provide an appropriate support framework to ensure that there are as many high-quality creations as possible on historical topics. The rest is up to the creators. And what we think of LGBTQ propaganda is our position on the referendum. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-11-212	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Rebecca Szabó, representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture a question. Congresswoman Rebecca Szabó has the floor.
u2022-07-11-213	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. Hungary is one of the most vulnerable countries in Europe in terms of the effects of the climate crisis, and nowhere is this more obvious than the water scarcity that has reached today's tragic level. Year after year, drought periods are getting longer, rainfall is falling, and rain is getting less and less frequent, but then suddenly falling rain has become characteristic. It is time to realise that this is not temporary bad luck, but the impact of the climate crisis, and this is a worsening trend year after year. Our lakes are drying up, our rivers are drying up, the groundwater levels are sinking. Today there is a shortage of water in Hungary that threatens food supply in addition to habitats. This year, as a result of drought, only a third or a quarter of the normal crop is expected for some varieties of cereals in the Great Plain, and this makes the situation of farmers very difficult, in addition to fuel and fertilizer costs which rise to the level of Russian aggression. The solution is not just channel building and forced increase in irrigation, as has just been said. It is time, instead of scaring people with floods, to appreciate and keep rainwater in agriculture, and to encourage farmers to do so. The water management solutions used in recent decades no longer work, we need to switch to sustainable water management, which stores water in the living subsystems of the landscape, in the soil and in the vegetation. Without real government commitment and adequate allocation of resources, we will not be able to remedy this problem. Instead of billions wasted on water supply, a comprehensive multisectoral landscape management and sustainable water management strategy and immediate action would be needed, which would break with artificial drainage of water. Therefore, please inform me when the government will finally take action against the desertification of our country, and when it will start to be sustainable, water management in the countryside. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the lines of Dialogue and LMP.]]
u2022-07-11-214	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas.
u2022-07-11-215	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would first like to make some clarifications on your written question. First of all, there is no threat to food supply in Hungary, despite the drought. Secondly, the Carpathian Basin is not unique. If you're watching the news, you're reading the paper, there's a similar critical situation in northern Italy, in the south of France. So we are not just talking about a Hungarian phenomenon. [[Rebecca Szabó: The climate crisis is not a Hungarian phenomenon, that's right!]] And my third point is that for sustainable water management, I'm going to ask you what you need. [[Rebecca Szabó: I can't answer now.]] I know you can't answer that. But I'll answer you this: water, my dear congresswoman. Without water, there's nothing. You can talk about sustainable farming, retention in the soil, determining the genetics of plant varieties that manage less water. You can all talk about this, but the basic question is that there is water. At the moment, not only in the Carpathian Basin, but in the entire Eastern European plain, there is not enough water, that is what we are talking about. That is why I would like to draw the honourable Member's attention to the fact that the ideas that we are going to put forward in the autumn, partly on the part of the government, please support it. Just to note, the water of the finished reservoirs, about 5 million cubic metres, is not, unfortunately, enough to irrigate 2,400 hectares of land, and we strive to ensure that these water volumes and water capacities are transported to the appropriate places of production, because they are the cheaper or relatively efficient means of management that these plants, these farmers and farmers can produce adequate safe food. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-11-216	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mrs Bernadett Bakos, Member of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office a question. Congresswoman Bakos Bernadett has the floor.
u2022-07-11-217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Since the turn of the millennium, Budapest's residents have suffered from traffic jams in their everyday lives. The situation will get worse every year, as the number of cars is increasing, while air quality is deteriorating, with serious health risks for the people living here. As responsible decision-makers, we have no other answer: we need traffic relief in Budapest to make our capital more livable. It is incomprehensible why the government cannot be responsible for this extremely serious matter. Today you can't move from cars in Budapest. Power attitude to traffic is not only a matter of approach, but also an economic one that can be measured. In the EU, Hungary's transport remains one of the most crowded. The number of hours lost in traffic is increasing, currently 42 hours a year per driver. That's a lot of wasted gas and lost hours for every single passenger. Traffic is what people pay with their money, their time, and let's just say they pay with their health. In Budapest, 2,000 people die prematurely every year in diseases caused by air pollution. However, the government not only ignores this, but also wipes out all the proposals for solutions. For example, the congestion charge has been used to reduce car traffic in several cities. But this would also be the climate lease, which would cost 5 000 forints to travel by public transport across the country, so that more people would choose public transport instead of driving. The congestion charge and the air-conditioning lease would lead to more livelier cities and cleaner air, thus reducing economic and health damage. Anyone who still needs to use the car because of their work or their life situation can finally move forward, saving time, energy, and petrol. Dear Secretary of State, When will the government arrive at XXI. And when will you introduce the congestion charge and the air-conditioning lease? What does the government do to change the mode of transport? How long do people in Budapest have to live in smog, noise, car sea? When do you realize that today's condition cannot be maintained indefinitely? Thank you for your answer. [[Applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2022-07-11-218	Thank you, Congresswoman Bakos Bernadett. I give the floor to Secretary of State Miklós Soltész.
u2022-07-11-219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Congresswoman, I would also like to answer your last question, as long as the governor of Ferenc Gyurcsány, Gergely Christmas, is the mayor. That's how long it's gonna take. By the way, I listened with interest to the dialogue before the agenda, who tried to steal your subject. It was obvious to you, by the way, on the small but stronger faction, that you were just looking at the green program that suddenly came out of the Dialogue, and now the situation is that you are trying to outbid each other, and it is not good for the people of Budapest, and it is not good for those from the agglomeration, and it is not good for anyone. Why not? 'Cause all those, uh, lots of, uh, lots of, uh, lots of? I prefer to say that the few but still unthinkable investments that have started in the capital are so disorganized that they cause: congestion. What does traffic do? Smog. Who's responsible for this? I think it's the people who run the capital. But we can move on to pointless and irresponsible lane terminations. What does it do? Traffic. You've got to go all the way down the boulevard, down the little boulevard. What's the consequence? Smog. Who's responsible? The leadership of the capital. The same is true when they want to close down the lower quay in Pest, they cherish such plans, besides the congestion charge, with the parking fee raised to 600 HUF. What's that gonna do? It means they're going to move traffic from the lower quay to the upper part of the city or to the inner part of the city. What will it cause? It's going to cause huge plugs, and huge traffic is going to cause another smog. [[17.40]] So when you ask and look for a solution to what could be done in this capital city, it is certainly not that car drivers are being scratched, it is certainly not that a congestion charge is introduced, but that it should be managed rationally. But I don't want to hurt you, I'm not referring to you, I don't want to think about it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the leadership of the capital, Ferenc Gyurcsány and the others, until Christmas to Gergő. Thank you very much for asking. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-07-11-220	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Tünde Szabó, Congresswoman of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Defence a question. Congresswoman Tünde Szabó has the floor.
u2022-07-11-221	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, We know that on 3 July the 19th ended with a spectacular closing event. FINA World Water Championship in Budapest. We've received the water world for the second time in a short time. Fukuoka was originally going to host the World Event 2021, but it had to be postponed to 2022 due to the coronal virus, and the Japanese city withdrew from the settlement, and after 2017, we were able to receive this big event again. It is safe to say that besides the world summit of Kristóf Milák, another world record was born on the part of Hungary, as the event had to take place in an unprecedented, short time, i.e. four months to prepare. The slogan "Make history" has certainly been achieved from the point of view of the arrangement, and it is therefore a huge thanks to the organizers and the head of the organising committee, from the volunteers in the final operation and assisting. And we can be very proud of our athletes. Congratulations on medals and rankings. Hungary reached the 10th place with five medals on the symbolic medal table, which was also very important in advance, and was a very good result as expected. The president of the International Association for Water Sports is very grateful for the fact that we have once again taken on this very big event, and the President of FINA said that Hungary has organized the best water world ever. I respectfully ask Mr Secretary of State how he evaluates the 2022 World Water Championship and how successful the organisation carried out in an extremely short period of time has been. How many staff, how many organizers, how many volunteers were involved in the event? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] What is the significance of the Hungarian organization? Thank you very much for your reply in advance. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-07-11-222	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Mr. Ádám Schmidt, Secretary of State.
u2022-07-11-223	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I can give you the following answer to your question. At the closing event of the World Championship in Budapest, the International Swimming Association, President of FINA, Mr Hussein al-Mussam, said that this was the most successful World Championship ever. I think this is a huge recognition and pride for all of us. The last time we heard this from him was in 2017, also after the World Championship in Budapest, so it is certainly true that only Budapest can hold a better World Championship than Budapest. I think that many people should be thanked for this, but, as the congresswoman has pointed out, the organising committee must do so. The slogan of the World Championship was to make history, and at the final press conference after the World Championship, we used it by saying that we had made history, and I think that we would like to thank the organization committee of 47 people, about 400 people who helped them in their work, who took part in it as an organizer and more than a thousand volunteers. The second, perhaps the most important, benefit of this domestic world championship is our sports diplomacy success, because during the World Championship, the international swimming association held a presidency meeting and congress, where they decided on the composition of the bodies to be elected. Out of six sports bodies, five of our compatriots have received trust, which is an exemplary and historic success, and I think it stands out from this, and it has never been the case that two of our compatriots have been given seats. If I may, I would also like to mention their names: Dr. Tamás Molnár is chairman of the Technical Commission, our three-time Olympic champion and Dr. Dénes Kemény is chairman of the Coach's Committee. We also congratulate them and wish them good luck with their work. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-07-11-224	Thank you very much, Adam Schmidt, Secretary of State. The last question: Mr Zsolt Gréczy, representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Finance a question. You have the floor, Congressman Gréczy.
u2022-07-11-225	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, With the total collapse of the forint, the inflation in Orbán and the brutal Orbán austerity package, we have now reached the point that food prices have increased by at least 30 percent in one year. DK therefore demanded that the VAT on basic foods be reduced to zero by the end of the year in order to curb this food price increase. You've already demanded a tax reduction, too, so it's certainly not new news for you. You said no to this at the time, and you made it clear that there is no tax reduction; you also want the record high tax revenue collected on high-priced foods. The formula is simple: if a product in the store costs a hundred forints, the state earns 27 per cent of the VAT key and 54 per 200 forints. That's what's happening right now. As people become more and more difficult to pay for their shopping, more and more VAT comes to you. The more expensive we buy, the worse it is for Hungarian people and families, the better it is for the Orbán government, because the suffering of families can bring huge VAT. It is now clear that you believe that people and families must pay the price for the failed economic policy in Orbán. You have repeatedly said: once you have said that you see people's savings as extra profit, and last time, Minister Judit Varga admitted that there are literally very large restrictions. Thank you very much, we already know that, but we consider that a confession. One question remains, so I ask Mr. Secretary of State: how much money has the Hungarian state made on food prices, how much has VAT revenue increased since the price of food has been on gold? If you like, how big is the extra profit the state was looking for in food-expensive? Thank you very much, I look forward to your reply.
u2022-07-11-226	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2022-07-11-227	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, To approach a question of the state's search for VAT is preposterous. If you'll allow me, I'll give you some examples when the government, the Parliament, has reduced VAT in the past period, has waived VAT revenue in order to make the price of food cheaper. In 14 live and half pigs 5 per cent, in 16 per cent at pigmeat, in 17 per cent at poultrymeat, in 2017 at fresh milk, in 2017 at restaurant catering 5 per cent, in 2019 at 5 per cent at ESL and UHT milk and dairy products instead of 18 per cent and 27 per cent at restaurant catering. When these decisions were made by the government, he gave up VAT revenue in order to make people better. But now, in times of economic difficulties, higher inflation, fuel stop means what? That he will not allow the price of fuel to be high for Hungarian citizens, he will give up VAT revenue according to your approach and logic. Or what does a food stop mean? To stop the price of food from being high, this means less VAT. Or what does stopping the overhead cost mean? It means that the rent is low, and the public, together with the rent, pays less VAT. Or I'll give you two examples when people get their VAT income back: in February of this year, the tax refund and the 13th month pension. Honourable Congressman, In these decisions, the government deliberately waived tax revenue. inflation is not done by the government, and it is not decided by the government that food is sold at higher prices. Thank you very much. [[17.50]]
u2022-07-11-228	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We've also closed a series of questions. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports to be submitted to the Agreement establishing an association between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Central America, of the other part, to take account of the publication of the Protocol to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/119. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I therefore give the floor to the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Dávid Héjj.
u2022-07-11-229	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee discussed on 7 July 2022 the T/119 of the Convention on the Establishment of an Association between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Central America, of the other part, in order to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. pursuant to Rule 35 of the Rules of Procedure, adopted by 35 votes in favour, no votes against, with 3 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law on the publication of the agreement establishing an association between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Central America, of the other part, was discussed and adopted by the Parliament in autumn 2013. Even the original bill was a so-called mixed-type agreement under which ratification of all the Member States of the European Union was necessary for its adoption. The entry into force of the agreement has led to the opening of markets in both regions. Another objective was to strengthen economic integration in Central America and to increase bilateral trade flows. The agreement was based on three pillars: political dialogue, cooperation and trade. It can therefore be seen that the original goal was not just a simple trade agreement, since it created a mutual set of conditions and links between the individual pillars. Dear House, The purpose of the bill before us is to enable Croatia to become a Contracting Party to the Agreement signed in June 2012 with its accession to the EU on 1 July 2013. It must therefore be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-11-230	Thank you very much to the author. I will ask Minister of State Magyar Levente if he wishes to speak now or later. [[Hungarian Levente: Later.]] Thank you very much. He'll tell you later. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Committee on Foreign Affairs. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I'll ask who wants to comment. [[There's no signal.]] Since I do not see a candidate, the non-existent debate is closed. Dear Parliament, I am now asking the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs if he would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] You have the floor.
u2022-07-11-231	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I think that this is a rare moment of the overall national consensus on foreign policy issues, which, although in few areas, is confirmed in order on such issues. I thank the factions for this is a technical issue that they have not raised a problem, because we would have to face infringement proceedings if this protocol were not published by law. Therefore, thank you for the constructivity, and I hope that on the next issue relating to the foreign policy and external economic world, which will be here, a similar consensus can be reached, as it is an old endeavour of Hungarian politics to organise foreign policy on a basically consensual basis. A good example of this is today's case. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-11-232	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on our meeting tomorrow. The Commission's reports on the publication of the Air Transport Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the State of Qatar, of the other part, and the debate on the summary amendment are now in order. The government referral is T/287. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate, so I will give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héjj, the rapporteur of the committee.
u2022-07-11-233	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 7 July 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed the publication of the T/287 Agreement on Air Transport between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the State of Qatar, of the other part. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it unanimously by 39 votes in favour. Ladies and gentlemen, Both Qatar and the Member States of the European Union are parties to the Convention on International Civil Aviation opened for signature in Chicago on 7 December 1944. The bill before us will help to strengthen political and economic relations between our countries. It should be noted that trade, investment, tourism development and the promotion of socio-economic cooperation are not ensured in the absence of an effective air transport agreement. The entry into force of the agreement will also ensure that airlines develop an international system based on fair and level playing field. Today air transport is a key condition for the highest level of safety, with regard to security of persons and property and the elimination of incidents aimed at the safety of aircraft. Dear Parliament, The political relations between Hungary and Qatar are friendly and balanced, and the fact that the Hungarian Prime Minister, the former President of the Republic, and the President of the Parliament have also visited our Middle East partner in the past is an excellent proof. We should also point out that in recent years we have concluded a number of bilateral agreements with Qatar in economic, cultural and energy areas. They are therefore an example of the fact that Qatar is a key partner of Hungary in the Gulf region. Therefore, in view of what has been said, the proposed legislation should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-11-234	Thank you very much, Congressman David. I would like to ask the Secretary of State, Zsófia Koncz, who is present on behalf of the authors, if you would like to speak now. It says no. Or did he say yes? [[Dr. Zsófia Koncz: Yes.]] You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2022-07-11-235	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I just wanted to thank the Member for his contribution and the committee's support. During the detailed discussion of the law, only minor technical amendments were made. We have already discussed the purpose of the motion and, as Mr President has said, the aim of the parties is to improve the conditions for the operation of air services and to promote the development of an international aviation system based on fair and level playing field. I ask you to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-11-236	Thank you very much. I would like to point out to Mrs State Secretary that if she wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak at the end of the debate, she will have 14 minutes and 20 seconds. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Committee on Foreign Affairs. Representatives' speeches will follow in the time frame on the agenda. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. Madam Secretary, would you like to speak? [[Dr. Zsófia Koncz says no.]] He won't say anything. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. I would like to announce that we will not be able to proceed to our next item on the agenda until the meeting of the TAB takes place. I ask Vice-President James to sit here and wait for the end of the Legislative Committee meeting, and then we will continue our work. In the meantime, we're going to order a very short recess. [[Break: 18.00-18.36]] (President: István Jakab) Note: Dr. Winner Vinnai and Sándor Berki)
u2022-07-11-237	Dear Parliament, A joint debate on the proposal for a political statement on the rejection of political pressure against the protection of Hungary's economic interests. The proposal put forward by the Economic Committee is set out in Annex P/578. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. The debate will be the first to give the floor to Mr Bánki Erik, President of the Economic Committee, the author of the proposal for a political declaration. Before I give the floor, Mr President, I would like to inform you that you have a total period of 20 minutes for the opening speech, the speech during the debate and the rejoinder. You have the floor, Mr. President.
u2022-07-11-238	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The political statement before us is on the table of this House because the European Parliament adopted a resolution on national vetoes undermining the global tax agreement on Thursday, 6 July last week, in addition to calling on Hungary to stop immediately blocking the global tax agreement in the Council, which envisages circumventing the unanimous decision-making rules contained in the EU Treaties. It also links Hungary's position against the global minimum tax with the issue of approving the Hungarian recovery plan. In our opinion, the adoption of the global minimum tax would create additional burdens for businesses in Hungary, and would affect thousands of such businesses, which, in my view, would put not only large companies in Hungary but also all of Europe at a competitive disadvantage. In a particularly sensitive economic situation caused by war, we believe that this is simply unacceptable. Parliament rejected the adoption of the European Union directive on the introduction of a minimum global tax 24/2022. [[CHAPTER VI 21.]] In its parliamentary resolution No.3 it made it clear that it was against the adoption of the relevant Council Directive. The European Parliament, we believe, would force Hungary to give up the representation of its own nation, the representation of Hungarians, by exceeding its powers considerably. Ladies and Gentlemen, As the government has always done, so it is now and then on the side of the Hungarian people, and on any matter that adversely affects Hungary, the Hungarian people, the lives of Hungarian people, it will be involved in every debate as it has done so far, no matter what their interests are behind it. Dear Parliament, With regard to the global minimum tax, the United States also wants to put pressure on Hungary by terminating the treaty on the avoidance of double taxation concluded 43 years ago with our country. The reason is clear: Hungary is resisting the introduction of the global minimum tax and the tax increase. Today, we believe that Europe's economy should operate in a long-term environment of war inflation, giving European businesses the opportunity to retain hundreds of thousands of jobs and to deliver economic results and performance that will enable European states to ensure an increase or at least a level of national total production, despite the very deep and intense crisis ahead. We Hungarians have worked hard to have Europe's lowest taxes. The introduction of a global minimum tax would mean that the corporate tax burden of Hungarian producing companies would actually double. This would endanger tens of thousands of jobs in Hungary. On this basis, however much pressure we may be under, of course, we do not support the introduction of a global minimum tax on 1 January 2023, we do not risk the jobs of tens of thousands of Hungarians, and we will continue our tax professional consultations with our American Republican friends. It is important to note that Hungary continues to prioritise the competitiveness of the European Union and the Hungarian economy, so we do not agree with a tax increase that would make the tax burden on local national businesses significantly difficult, and that is what the proposal of the global minimum tax would mean at European level. Hungary has always been a partner in tax relations, and the government continues to seek to resolve the issues that arise with the Member States in person. The global minimum tax, on the other hand, would be a step that would harm competitiveness, which would jeopardise jobs, and there are several countries that, together with us, see huge risks in introducing this. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the current war situation, I believe that Europe's economic stability can be promoted not by stigmatizing the rejection of proposals which put Europe at a competitive disadvantage, but by restoring peace as soon as possible. We now need economic growth, tax cuts and investment incentives, because this is the only way to protect jobs. In light of what has been said, I propose that the political pressure contained in the European Parliament's resolution of 6 July 2022 be clearly and firmly rejected. I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the political declaration submitted by the Parliament's Economic Committee. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-07-11-239	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to inform you, Mr President, that you have a period of 15 minutes during the further debate. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State, who wishes to speak on behalf of the government. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that there is a total timeframe of 10 minutes for his speeches in the debate. Here you go.
u2022-07-11-240	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will not take advantage of the time frame, but I would just like to tell you that the government supports the adoption of the political declaration. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-07-11-241	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will now be presented. I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Földesi, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2022-07-11-242	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 11 July 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed the rejection of political pressure against the protection of Hungary's economic interests. Political Declaration No 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 27 votes in favour, 11 votes against and no abstentions. [[18.40]] Dear Parliament, According to the political declaration, the adoption of the global minimum tax would put Europe at a competitive disadvantage and would create a significant additional burden for Hungarian businesses, given that this 15 percent global minimum tax would force Hungary to double the taxes on businesses, which is currently 7.5 percent. This is completely unacceptable in the current war situation. Parliament rejected the adoption of the European Union directive on the introduction of a minimum global tax 24/2022. [[CHAPTER VI 21.]] in its parliamentary decision, it clearly stated its opposition to the adoption of the relevant draft Council directive. The European Parliament's powers are clearly expanding to force Hungary to give up representation of its own economic interests. The United States also wants to put pressure on Hungary, so it terminated the agreement on the avoidance of double taxation with our country 43 years ago, which is clearly the reason why Hungary is resisting the introduction of a global minimum tax. Europe's economy must now operate in a long-term environment of war inflation. If, under these circumstances, the tax burden on the production companies continued to increase, there would be insurmountable consequences. Due to the release of energy prices, European competitiveness is already in ruins and the introduction of a minimum global tax would only make the situation worse. No matter how much pressure we are under, of course, we do not support the introduction of a global minimum tax in Europe, as we cannot risk the jobs of tens of thousands of our fellow Hungarians. At present, our most important task is to promote economic growth, to reduce taxes and to encourage investment, because this is the only way to protect jobs. In view of this, I propose that political pressure be rejected and the political declaration adopted. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-11-243	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee has not set up a minority speaker. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to inform you that the factions have a timeframe of 10 to 10 minutes. During the debate, two-minute contributions should be included in the timeframe. Dear Parliament, The speeches announced in writing will now follow. I give the floor to Mrs Enikő Győri, Member of the European Parliament, Fidesz-KDNP. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2022-07-11-244	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, It's always good to be home, and it's an honor to have a word within these walls. Thank you to my group for making me the lead speaker today, as MEP, following a decision by the European Parliament last week. Reforming the international corporate tax system and coordination of EU tax policy have been one of the central themes of my work in the European Parliament over the last year. The EP has been working on several occasions to exchange views on this issue. Indeed, dear fellow Members, it was not easy to live by the fact that the House in Brussels, where the relative majority on the left currently dominates, is ignoring the extraordinary economic situation, is constantly trying to raise taxes and, in contrast to the treaties, calls for tax harmonisation at EU level. Let us also look at the international economic environment when it does so. The Union has just begun to recover from the economic crisis caused by the corona virus epidemic. The Commission's economic forecast published in February this year indicated 4 percent by 2022, a weaker increase by 23, a 2.8 percent increase by 23 and expected only 1.9 percent inflation by 23. However, a war broke out in our immediate neighbor, and a war that is profound and serious economic, and, sooner or later, its social consequences are becoming increasingly marked. This year's slowing economic growth, estimated at only 2.4 percent, is accompanied by rising inflation. The latter was 8.6 percent record-breaking in the euro area in June, although this is only the average, as, for example, our Baltic friend Estonia is facing 22 percent inflation. Because of this and the disturbances in supply chains, the lion's share is made up of the runaway energy prices. Unfortunately, energy prices, which have been rising for over a year, have been injected with poison instead of a cure by the EU with a misguided sanctions policy. America has driven Europe into sanctions, and he himself is becoming more and more cautious. EU Member States have started to produce emergency plans, but they have not yet been able to recognise that sanctions have been used to shoot themselves in the leg and that the aggressor Russia continues to make good money on its redirected energy exports. Hungary has repeatedly pointed out all these problems. Our position is clear, we need a ceasefire and peace instead of more sanctions. This would be the only effective weapon against inflation and the crisis. It would also be important to focus on stabilising the economy, supporting investment in growth and jobs. This should be done instead of raising taxes and creating tensions between Member States. However, the left always comes up with this tax-raising failure recipe. Since June last year, the text adopted in Strasbourg last week is the seventh European Parliament resolution calling for an increase in taxes and an increase in tax policy in EU competence. In addition, Parliament has debated the minimum global tax four times in the last year. It does so without any special competence in tax policy. Of course, Hungary's serial figure is also seen as a schema. It's not a surprise, we're used to it. [[18.50]] This left-wing scenario fits well with the resolution adopted in last week's plenary. We can say that this is nothing more than putting left-wing pressure to the top. A decision succeeds in breaking a spear in favour of a tax increase, while it has the capacity of attacking the legal basis for tax policy, of a law enshrined in a contract from a Member State, and even of re-targeting Hungary, while linking things that are not compatible with each other by the EP. This therefore raises very serious questions. Let's see the first one. This tax increase, because in our case, the introduction of a minimum tax would clearly mean this in a dramatic economic situation. Competitiveness in the European Parliament has now become a curse. In my everyday life, I find that there is less and less talk about this, and that MEPs always want to focus on other things that strike competitiveness precisely. How are competitiveness and global minimum tax linked? I'd like to back it up by three points. The first is that the situation has changed dramatically since last October's OECD agreement. I was just talking about rising inflation, declining supply chains. They should be dealt with instead of being compensated, rather than raising taxes. Secondly, the global minimum tax is part of a two-pillar package. The first pillar, originally aimed at taxing large tech companies, is nowhere to be found. This was said by the Secretary-General of the OECD himself in May. Looks like they're only targeting production companies. I'm asking you why this is good for us. There was a reason for the package, so that the global minimum tax and the tax on large tech companies should be brought to the fore at the same time. We were able to support the global minimum tax until there was a chance that techs wouldn't get away with paying taxes. Today, however, this has become doubtful. Thirdly, we are rushing forward with blinders, as we want to introduce them as soon as possible, and our international partners in America and Asia are not rushing to implement it. With a rash decision, therefore, we would clearly put European companies at a competitive disadvantage. Hungary has said this many times, and we have also successfully reduced taxes for ten years, so we do not want to be in favour of a policy that is contrary to this. But let us look at other sensitive issues beyond competitiveness. The attempt to circumvent unanimity in tax policy in any form is contrary to the Treaties. Tax policy is a national competence, a pillar of national sovereignty, which is why decisions are taken there by consensus. The questioning of this by the EP goes against not only the spirit of the treaties, but also the letter. There is no common fiscal policy! You, national MPs, are responsible for tax decisions. The EP is therefore taking a decision on a matter for which it is not responsible. So this is the policy of irresponsible, pointless pursuit of power. This does not seem to be a problem for the left, and this is the basic condition of decent policy making. Thirdly, the national veto is the right granted to all Member States under the Treaties. The unanimous decision-making was designed by the founding fathers so that the interests of all the Member States could have the same weight on matters of paramount importance for sovereignty. It is therefore not possible to take a decision which affects a Member State very seriously and adversely. The right of some Member States to dispute in contracts is therefore the most obvious example of double standards. The challenge of this right by an EU institution raises serious issues of the rule of law. I do not remember the European Parliament attacking, say, France, because it blocks free trade agreements that otherwise put EU companies in a position, or Bulgaria, for not allowing accession negotiations to begin with Northern Macedonia. And now I've just mentioned two examples. Fourthly, the European Parliament's resolution does not pass through the negotiations on the global minimum tax to accuse Hungary of violating loyal cooperation, while it is precisely itself doing so. The decision adopted means that Hungary violates the principle of loyal cooperation, as it blocks the agreement that has been said to be historic. In contrast, in the text that disputes tax policy, the European Parliament is the one that has made a tying, saying that the Commission should not approve the Hungarian recovery and resilience plan in any way. I ask you that we do not now achieve loyal cooperation, or the European Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, It is clear, therefore, that there is no openness in the EP to common sense, nor has it been with regard to sanctions. Hungary does not put forward ideological arguments, but practical arguments. We do not want to double the burden on businesses, we do not want to jeopardise, as we have just heard, European competitiveness. That would be economic suicide. Hungary seems to have drawn a crosshairs on its head, and now there is no week before the European Parliament at committee or plenary level does not come up with any kind of attack on us. America is threatening to terminate the Convention on the Avoidance of Double Taxation of 79. I would just like to say that in 2010, a version of this was born that addresses precisely the concerns that the Americans have just raised. It would be good not only for Hungary, but also for the Americans. I think, fellow Members, that, in a war situation, the most important task would be to stick together and strengthen unity. We are dealing with Parliament's resolution, as we have so far, as a bad episode, no need to attach any special importance to it, it was pressure, there is and there will be. But there's still time for a common understanding. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-11-245	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Ferenc David, DK Group. Here you go.
u2022-07-11-246	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, While the European Union as a whole, 26 Member States, around 450 million European citizens' political representation supports the global multi-tax, the Orbán government is the only one on the side of large companies. When Viktor Orbán speaks in this matter, we are actually hearing the voice of the largest international giant companies. They don't want to pay taxes, so they found themselves someone willing to do anything for money and influence. What is the global minimum tax? The fact that the largest and richest international giant companies cannot get out of taxation and are not worth fleeing to tax havens. Pay taxes where your profits are generated, do not take your profits out without any substantial tax from the countries where you were contacted. With the veto and this draft parliamentary resolution, Fidesz helps the multinationals to get their profits from everywhere, including Hungary. The fruitful relationship between Fidesz and the multinationals didn't start today. Fidesz has served the interests of the multinationals for 12 years, for example, since 2010 it has weakened the forint so that the Hungarian workers can work in Hungary every year for less money, counting in euros. The result is inflation in Orbán, which is what we call it because it is the Orbán system itself and its multi-friendly operation. You can see how much it is worth for Hungarian families, if a government represents the multinationals, you can go into a store and see where the decade-old forint weakening has led. Let us not be mistaken, the multinationals still benefit greatly from inflation in Orbán. Since wages are paid mainly on the basis of euros in Hungary, they can still work the Hungarians from month to month for less and less money. When we read that at another historic low point, the leaders and top managers of multinational companies open a champagne. Forints approaching loss and inflation in Orbán are also products of multi-friendly policy, and this is already the case, regardless of the multi-tax. For years, Fidesz has been giving the multinationals billions of state aids that Hungarian businesses can't even dream of. Fidesz also adopted the slave law for the benefit of multinational companies, which completely served Hungarian workers to multinational companies. The Hungarian veto and the Orbán multi-friendliness have already caused serious damage, it is enough to think only of the agreement of 79 that the United States has resigned. The US multinational companies operating in Hungary benefited because they have to pay a 9 percent tax and Hungarian companies operating in the United States had to pay a 21 percent corporate tax. While in the EU Fidesz protects the interests of multinationals with teeth and nails and does not want to tax them, it taxes Hungarian businesses and families with a brutal Orbán austerity package. The Hungarians are under pressure, while the multinationals are supported on all fronts. This is the current policy of Fidesz. According to the Democratic Coalition, the global multi-tax is not only a European interest, but also a particular Hungarian interest. Today, multinationals have a huge advantage over Hungarian businesses, as they can register themselves in a tax haven, while Hungarians pay and pay. [[19.00]] This is precisely what the multi-tax makes impossible and would at least create a level playing field in taxation. You are opposed not only to European interests, but also to Hungarian interests. At present, the Orbán government is playing not only an economic but also a political losing match. Haven't you had enough war with the EU? Is the euro over 400 HUF still not high enough for you? One of the reasons why you can't do anything about the historic low forint is that we don't get the EU's money suspended because of government corruption. Europe's money is lacking and Europe's trust in Hungary is lacking, and in this situation it is particularly irresponsible to fight for the interests of the multinationals with the European Union. Who knows, they may be able to reach 500 forints if they continue to do what they have done so far. I would also like to point out that, in our view, Hungary's negotiating position is greatly impaired by the fact that it is once again drawing a sword with the European Union. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that Hungary is now calling the United States to war. Where will this road lead, how will Hungary be isolated? And the crosshairs that the congresswoman spoke about will really burn on the faces of Hungarians, on the brows of Hungarians. This is a very bad process, so I would like to conclude by saying that the Democratic Coalition does not, of course, support this parliamentary resolution under any circumstances. Thank you for your attention and patience. [[Applause in the lines of MSZP and LMP.]]
u2022-07-11-247	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Member István Hollik, KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2022-07-11-248	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Somehow I was not surprised at the position of the Left when they said that the political declaration would not be supported. But in addition, let me make some criticism of what you have said, Congressman David. You say that Hungary must vote for the global minimum tax because it has to be supported by 26 other EU countries. The fact is that, based on this logic, you are saying that what many other countries support must be supported by Hungary, whether it is good for us or not. This policy, the left-wing policy before 2010, which ignored the Hungarian national interest, had only one goal: to meet it, in any case, to meet the comrades in Brussels as a good student. This policy has been closed because this policy has led to Hungary's failure and failure. And I ask you, honourable Member, if someone does not represent the Hungarian national interest, because Hungary does not do this, but stands in line, then who will represent it. Therefore, we cannot accept this logic that we only accept something because the other countries accept it. Here, the Congresswoman has also given concrete examples that there are countries that do the same if they act for their own national interests. They just don't attack them, and that's the double standard for us. You have spoken of inflation here, but you have not noticed that inflation is happening everywhere in all European Union countries, and in the United States of America, so you can say that there is inflation in many countries, European Union countries and America, and there is inflation in excess of that in Hungary, have you not noticed? Then would the Prime Minister of Hungary be responsible for that, too? The Hungarian Prime Minister seems to be very influential at the time, since his ability and influence extend beyond the borders. Now you're saying we're big friends of the multinationals. That's very comical, and he has a discreet charm when we hear it from Ferenc Gyurcsány's party. Because if there was anyone who slept with the multinationals without question, it was you. For example, when the entire energy sector was delivered to the multinationals, they were even guaranteed profits in a market economy that could not be seen before, and you did this too. And we have made a fair agreement with the multinationals operating in Hungary, and we said that if they come here, they give the Hungarians jobs and produce, they are welcome, but if they are needed, we will involve them, even to a greater extent, in sharing the burden. That's what the bank special tax you attacked back then was about, because you were on the side of the multinationals back then, and that's what the current extra profit specialist is about. So I think that it is better to keep the party of Ferenc Gyurcsány quiet about the relationship with the multinationals. Now, with the resolution of the European Parliament, which is ultimately the subject of the political declaration, the fact is that, as the Member said here, there are actually two problems: one is the pressure of European federalists in Brussels and the other is the issue of a global minimum tax. What we can see in Europe is that those who think in a Europe of nations say that we might need to take two steps back from European cooperation, because when there was less cooperation in less areas, the European Union was more successful. But the federalists do not come to that conclusion, but they say that we need to move forward, not two, but four. It is certain that the situation in which the European Union and European cooperation are today is not suitable for anyone, but these debates, at least earlier, have been held culturally in Europe, and today it seems that the federalists refuse to accept that there is another opinion outside their own, and simply those who do not want to stand in line want to be punished. That is what the European Parliament's resolution is about. And unfortunately, with this European Parliament resolution, the European Parliament has once again shown that it is the most irresponsible institution in the European institutions. We have had, we have practical experience, what it is like to have important reports written by Members, such as Mr Tavares, who, by the way, who had no social support of his party in his own country, has actually ceased his party, and these people are sitting in the Brussels bubble, trying to teach us a lesson and blackmail us, linking unrelated cases, and blackmailing us with this. What kind of thing is it when they imply, in particular, that if Hungary refuses to join the line, then the EU funds must not be paid by Hungary, they must be taken away? Do you think it's the right thing to do? And you think we should accept that, that's the right thing to do? I don't think so. And it is just a blur on the cake that, as in the case of child protection, we have seen in many other cases that the European Parliament is involved in things that have no competence at all. The European Commission wants, wants, and has done so, to initiate infringement proceedings without having anything to do with this. Even now, the European Parliament wants to intervene in a matter of national competence that has nothing to do with taxation. So here we see nothing but the pressure of federalists that we must resist. The other is the global minimum tax. Here, too, we have said earlier in the debate that Europe wants to run ahead of a tax the existence of which is completely uncertain. I have already mentioned in the debate that the United States of America is preparing for a mid-term election, and the Republicans, who now seem to have obtained the majority in the legislative process, have made it clear that the global minimum tax will not be supported. So we have to come to the conclusion with common sense that if, in the largest economy, one of the world's largest economies, there is such a great degree of uncertainty in the United States of America, then at least we wait months to see what will happen there, and then we think that we want to introduce this tax at all. No, Europe is rushing ahead. Not to mention that, of course, it should also be noted that most Member States in the European Union do not suffer from a global minimum tax because there are levels of corporate tax in most countries that exceed the global minimum tax rate. But not with us. And this is a competitive advantage for Hungary. [[19.10]] When you support the minimum global tax and attack this political statement, you want to do so by eliminating this important competitive advantage for Hungary, this goes against the Hungarian national interest; I do not know if you are doing this on purpose. Summa summarum, there is no European or Hungarian interest in the accelerated introduction of the global minimum tax. We therefore continue to believe that this should not be supported, despite the fact that the European Parliament is now trying to blackmail us in this matter. We also consider it very important for the Fidesz-KDNP to say that if such a pressure against Hungary is not covered at all, then in the Hungarian Parliament we should also say that we do not agree with this. We have not joined a European Union where disputes are dealt with with with such blackmail. We thought that disputes could be resolved at table, culturally; with debate, but not blackmail. Therefore, this political statement will surely be supported by the KDNP. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-07-11-249	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2022-07-11-250	Mr President, Dear House, Well, I wouldn't have thought that, so, in the interests of multi-company companies, we're seeing such tough outbursts from the government side, that's pretty amazing. In my speech several times during the 2010 period, I held a protest in which governments that were pursuing economic policies before 2010, which I did not like, provided too much non-refundable support for multi-enterprises, provide too much competitive advantage to the detriment of Hungarian mKKs, to the detriment of multinationals. Compared to inflation, of course, this has been included in the formula, but the successive Orbán governments have provided three times as much non-refundable support per job for multi-enterprises as those I rightly criticized before 2010 for some of this. So it is quite amazing that these companies are constantly being pampered in Hungary, regardless of the changes in government color, and they forget about micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that provide two thirds of the jobs. Why don't they get a grant? So when my fellow Member Hollik talks about national interests, explain to me, my fellow Member, why you have tripled the support of multi-enterprises. Why do you tolerate large western European car manufacturers, if you take all of their discounts into account, do you have a tax burden of less than 1 percent in Hungary? What if it's not a slam dunk of national interest that you're doing on this issue? ! What was done today at the TAB meeting was also amazing; there were two items on the agenda, and I followed the debate over the phone. On the one hand, they want to save costs on their own skin. Once again, small entrepreneurs providing two thirds of the Hungarian jobs are being cut, while they are fighting for the spectacular tax exemption of their true strategic partners, Western European car manufacturers and multi-company companies. Obviously this is an economic debate, it was said decades ago that a tax system can only win competitiveness battles in the short term, but the competitive potential the Orbán government believes in is upsetting me and reminds me of a colonial status. You are competing with three things: brutally low Hungarian wages, amazingly low Hungarian wages at the level of the region, by consciously keeping the labour code flexible, and in this case even promoting our country in various exotic landscapes, and thirdly by consciously weakening the forint. The very amazing thing, my fellow Member, is that if we look at how much non-refundable funding is given to the multinationals, this is hundreds of billions of dollars a year, if we look at how much these companies only make on the consciously weak HUF, about ten times what they want to guarantee them now with the reduced tax rate. It's not true, it's a lie that the most important decision factor in coming multi-company companies is how much tax is payable. That's not true. Hungary has no such competitive advantage. It's a fraction factor, maybe one of the first five or six factors. It is certain that the predictable legal system, infrastructure conditions, are at least as important, but the main thing that tempts companies that are not so good- faith as to provide these companies with a colonial level of wages for quality work in Hungary. I've been reviewing your strategic contracts. You know what I couldn't find in there? Two things; if they were a national government, they would both have been involved. One is the protection of employees' interests against foreign networks at any cost. Now that workers are being systematically imported from the third world, from Vietnam, Kazakhstan, Mongolia, shouldn't we guarantee that this will not break the wages of the Hungarian worker and put him under worse working conditions than under normal conditions? It's not in their strategic contracts, it's missing. The other thing that is missing is the slow approximation of Hungarian wages not to the Western European average, we do not want to dream so much, to the European average, in which Bulgaria and Kosovo may be involved statistically. We would only like to approach this in a way that is allowed by productivity. But you didn't conclude that with your strategic partners, and you don't have any contracts. If my fellow Member Hollik sends me one of these, then let's go out to the press and I will follow him in public, but he won't be able to send one of these. The fact is that you have a strategic partner, the temporary employment agency, which organizes tens of thousands of workers from the third world to Hungary. My fellow Member, where is the national interest here? I find the justification quite amazing. Let's look at the points where we agree. If Hungary were threatened by a transfer of sovereignty, so that power should be given out of our hands forever, I would be irritated. I always step back a little when they want to decide, in some international unity, how to behave or not to behave in a situation. It bothers me; but we had this debate two weeks ago. If you were serious about bearing public burdens, why didn't you in two weeks submit a proposal that would at least start multi-enterprises on the road to public burdens? We didn't want to tax them in two weeks, we don't want to hurt anyone. Only in proportion should they pay as much tax as the Hungarian micro-, small- and medium-sized enterprise that cannot avoid tax obligations, cannot play its portfolio like that, cannot cheat its profits out of Hungary untaxed, because it works in this country, pays taxes, carries the national economy on its back, I would like to emphasise once again. Dear fellow Members, Who are we talking about here? Companies with over 300 billion revenue. Who are you protecting? You protect companies above 300 billion revenues, not Hungarian micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. You're protecting a great megano-love right now. If you look at the Hungarian budget, the waiting for VAT is 7,000 billion, the waiting for corporate tax revenue is less than 800 billion. There's the ravine! On the revenue side, there's a deficit that could finance a rental program, a family card construction, a parent's allowance, let me not list it. There are a lot of things missing from the budget because you provide tax haven statuses to multi-enterprises in a totally unjustified way, and they don't even stop their non-refundable grants. If you look at the competitiveness ranking that I have not been so fond of, but you have just referred to it today, so I had to look at it, at the beginning of the competitiveness ranking, we find countries where corporate tax is two to two and a half times the size of Finland, for example, in Hungary, but it does not cause any competitive, disappointing disadvantage for them, quite simply because it is a medium and because they require public burdens. Let's find another match point. If the question is that it irritates me if, let's say, hightech companies or multinationals are left out of this standardization that was mentioned in the first pillar, yes, it irritates me. I would like to see this minimum tax level one day in 137 affected countries, one moment, to be brought to a level only for large enterprises, which will generate revenue for my country. Here's to fighting for freedom. Finally, here's a sensible freedom fight on the front of Brussels! But what I see is that somehow it's lost its purpose. So, in the midst of political statements and phantom struggles with directives, I do not see it, and I do not believe that it is credible that you want to carry on public burdens in Hungary, because you could have started this in your own power in the last two weeks. If they calculate how much corporate tax revenue is missing from the multinationals since 2010, they will receive a multi-billion-dollar sum. They will come to realize that the entire program of prosperity in the homeland could have been implemented with housing programme, along with the expansion of family support, and that it would not have been necessary for so many people to migrate from this country. My big problem is that you guys didn't think this through, and now you want to go to war again. But this is where war could be fought for a meaningful purpose, where it could be said that at the same time in 137 countries there would be the introduction of a minimum standard tax and only for companies with over 300 billion revenues. [[19.20]] But that's not what I see. At today's TAB meeting, I saw that they wanted to take costs from everywhere, so they wanted to carve off the expenses. That's what they do, let's say, at the cost of the future of the catnip, because they should find an accountant now, in August. If we consider your plan, even the doubling of the burden of the cata would cost these people less than the extra administrative burden, once again, to find an accountant in August, to redesign their entire lives until September 1st. So it's a pair of foot slides in a completely pointless way, absolutely counterproductive. On the other hand, they want to protect your multi-allies at all costs. The Hungarian economy depends on the brochures of German car manufacturers. Hungarian GDP depends on what international offers you find this semi-gyarmatian national economy. Totally amazing exposure, vulnerability to all of this. You can argue that it's okay. I do not think so, but it is certain that the national interest is not represented by maintaining this sick condition, that Hungary's performance depends on the networks of multi-company companies, and the direct consequence of this is the low wage level, employee vulnerability, emigration, the lack of housing problems. And on the day of demography, we should mention the failure to take on or part of the children we desire, and this is the real tragedy in this flow chart. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. István Hollik: Do you support him or not?]]
u2022-07-11-251	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Antal Csárdi, LMP Group.
u2022-07-11-252	Thank you very much for the floor. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that I believe that we have the most lying, ludicrous political declaration ahead of us. I understand my fellow Members, you can smile at that, but I think everyone here should be crying. You are referring to autonomy, to the protection of Hungarian small businesses, while this political declaration is nothing but a practical attempt to ensure tax avoidance for multinational companies. I would like to make it clear to this House, although my fellow Members are probably aware that the minimum tax applies to companies that operate in several countries on the one hand and that this very important condition has a consolidated turnover of at least EUR 750 million. This is HUF 300 billion; not 300 million, but HUF 300 billion annual income! They try to ensure tax avoidance for companies of this size at any cost. And that I am talking about tax evasion is not an accident, fellow Members. In the debate on previous laws, I have already said that if we look at the tax performance of the largest companies operating in Hungary, we will find that MOL had a higher post-tax profit than before tax. If you look at it, Gideon Richter has a tax rate of 0.03 percent. I'd just like to point out that the cleaning lady is paying 15 percent personal income tax. Compared to this, the payment of consumption-type taxes is added. This is how we know that next year the state is expected to receive HUF 7000-7100 billion in revenue, but you are doing everything you can to ensure that multinational companies pay not only 9 percent corporate tax, but not even that. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear House, The fact is, this is a press release practically wrapped in a political statement. This quality has been produced by you, only because you cannot cooperate with anyone and try to demonstrate the interests of the nation as the interests of multinational companies. I am convinced, and I would be very, very surprised, that if I could be persuaded that it is in the nation's interest that not only small and medium-sized enterprises working here, but not just individuals living here, are throwing their tax dollars at the cost of our common affairs, but that multinational companies should be involved in this. They're not participating at the moment. After the profits of Gedeon Richter over 140 billion, he pays the price of half a flat in Pest as a corporation tax. [[István Hollik: This is a Hungarian company!]] Yes, in response to my colleague Hollik, a Hungarian company who shouted that it was a Hungarian company. I am a Hungarian company, and I am a Hungarian person, and the cleaning woman who pays personal income tax is a Hungarian citizen, our fellow countryman, and she pays taxes in a significantly higher proportion, and I also pay taxes, while Gedeon Richter does not pay the same tax. Certainly not in proportion, because if we looked at the 9 percent of 140 billion forints, we would notice that you would have to pay ten billion in the budget here, instead you paid 38 million forints in corporate tax. It is no coincidence, ladies and gentlemen, that while private individuals and small and medium-sized enterprises combine around HUF 13 000 billion of different types of turnover taxes, personal income taxes, not all HUF 800 billion of corporate taxes, i.e. between 13,000 and 800, this is the proportion of participation in public burdens. I think that if you were serious about what the President of the Economic Commission said, that you represent Hungarian society, the Hungarian nation, then this political statement could not be before us, because it is in the same interest of the Hungarian nation that multinational companies participate in the taxing of taxes, as I think it is perfectly natural that individuals, our compatriots, are involved in paying taxes, and we are throwing together our common costs together. This could pay for a teacher's wage increase, which would pay for so much that is not paid today. Dear House, I think that this is the most outrageous substance in the House since the elections, and I don't think it will stay that way, because wherever we look from, and I think that's what we need to hear, this is not a statement from the Fidesz-KDNP. This is primarily a press release by German capital, because you do nothing but serve this large capital system. Right now, they're not demanding anything from the big money, they're just giving. As a matter of fact, if I were to pay 9 percent, we would be further inside, but what you can see is that in Europe there is only a 9 percent corporate tax rate uniquely. Compared to this, even in the United States, corporate tax is over 20 percent. So, basically, you're representing these companies so that they don't fall under an accidental tax liability, because they'll end up falling out of the picnic area, ladies and gentlemen. They fall out of the picnic and then what, right? That's the problem. For once, I would like to see in this House that the Fidesz-KDNP Alliance represents the interests of Hungarian society! I'd like to see you finally... [[Defiance from the Fidesz ranks. Erik Bánki: What else would we do?]] And you can smile about it, but I think they should cry. Mr Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State, is smiling, even though I think that he has given the Government his position plenty, I do not know how long it took. Five seconds? Maybe six? [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: We should really cry!]] The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that we have only one request: do not prevent multinational companies from paying taxes in our country over HUF 300 billion in revenue. I think you're going to tell me everything that's been said about the political statement here, and I really think that this is such a hypocritical paper flutter that you brought in here, I think you're going to tell me everything that if you get voted, what happens, or if you don't vote for what happens differently. [[19.30]] And nothing happens any other way. This political statement will in no way affect anything. The thing is, it sounds great, but let me ask you one question at the end. After the United States has denounced the agreement of 79 on the avoidance of double taxation, tell me what will happen to our fellow citizens who will then have an additional tax burden? [[Dr. Répássy, Robert: Who are they?]] So I think you are confusing autonomy, because autonomy, believe me, my fellow Members of the Fidesz, is not equal to the uncritical service of multinational companies. It's not equal. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the LMP benches.]]
u2022-07-11-253	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have now reached the end of the speeches of the Members who have made themselves known in writing, and now we have the speeches of the Members who have made themselves within the normal timeframe. I give the floor to Mr László Toroczkai, Head of Group, Mi Hazank Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2022-07-11-254	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We have known for a long time that the European Union is fully anti-democratic. I don't know, do you remember how in 2008 the Lisbon Treaty was adopted by the Irish people in Ireland, how many times they ran into the referendum? People will vote in the European Union until the people decide what the true leaders of the European Union want. Accordingly, the European Union's supplementary constitution, the Lisbon Treaty, was one of the first steps in the European Union to deprive European peoples of real decision-making, and the Irish people were voted until the Irish finally decided as the real, sometimes invisible, leaders of the Union wanted. So how decision-making works in the EU has been known for a very long time, and from this point of view it is indeed extremely worrying and worrying that they are now also trying to remove the unanimous decision, because it is obvious that steps are now being taken in Brussels. In doing so, it is openly stated that the creation of the European United States is a goal, as DK formally does here, at least in its programme. They also say that the operation of these European united states will be an anti-democratic process and that European peoples will not be able to decide on matters that concern them. This perfectly fits what we are now seeing with regard to the global minimum tax. In principle, they ask the Europeans about whether we want a global minimum tax, and then when someone says that Fidesz-KDNP is a sign in Hungary, and our Hungary Movement, that we thank them very much, we do not ask for it in this way, in this form, they say that there is no democracy. So by some force, violence, blackmail, or threat, they are also trying to get Hungary to accept the global minimum tax. Therefore, I must say two sentences about why the global minimum tax in this form is not good. Our Hungary Movement did not support the Hungarian veto because Fidesz-KDNP did. Our problem was that the first pillar had disappeared. There are equals among the equals, the global tech companies that are above everyone. We have seen that the President-in-Office of the United States of America was also able to remove him from virtual space, to disable politicians. Obviously, let's say that this speech cannot be broadcast on Facebook, because you will be banned immediately, whether it be a State Secretary or anyone who would convey my speech now, because somewhere in Silicon Valley, some swine-headed lords have decided that in Hungary representatives of certain parliamentary parties, regardless of how many hundreds of thousands of Hungarians we are represented here in Parliament, may decide that I cannot speak. So obviously we are dealing with anti-democratic forces who treat the European Union as a kind of colony. That's what this global minimum tax is all about. That's why the first pillar has come out, and that's why our country is not supported by the Movement. However, we also said, contrary to Fidesz-KDNP, that in the event that the first pillar was returned, we could support it, because Fidesz-KDNP's decision was also part of their desire to lure it here, and it was not something they would hide, and it was now revealed in the debate that multinational companies were going to Hungary. On the other hand, Mi Hazank Movement says that we do not want more multinationals in Hungary, and we do not support the fact that in the last 12 years Fidesz-KDNP's governance has done the same thing that the Balliberians have done before, so, above all, more than Hungarian businesses, it has supported multinational companies. We must also say that the global minimum tax, along with this, serves American interests. It is not even in the interests of the European Union but in the interests of the United States of America. The termination of the 1979 double taxation agreement by the Americans clearly points out that there is a domestic dispute between American politics, the US government and large global companies with American roots. That's probably why the first pillar came out, so those global tech companies, mostly American-based tech companies, who have more power than governments, could influence elections, as we have seen in Donald Trump's case. So this is about an American interest. It's very important that we bring this up, and that's what we're gonna tell you. In this respect, the Americans clearly point out from this aspect that the United States of Europe itself would not be an empire equivalent to the United States of America, but would be its colony, and in the United States of America there are forces above the government, partly invisible forces, who influence decisions in the United States. The fact that this is so can once again be a very good ectant example of Manuel Barroso, the former President of the European Commission, who has been ruling for a very long time. He is currently receiving a pension supplement from one of these American-based global companies, Goldman Sachs, and at present he is not even an executive president, but he has just been given a position as Chairman, he does not have to do any work for him, but he receives a pension supplement which, as President of the European Commission, he probably has already worked off in advance with the representation of these global lords and the United States of America. So this is how the European Union works. Therefore, the Hungarian Movement supports this political statement and we can vote for it, but our biggest problem is with the author, because at present the Fidesz-KDNP and the Hungarian government are lying down in this system, and they are sleeping with this European Union. After ruining the economic policy of the last 12 years, after a huge lack of money and constant blackmail, he is now willing to do almost anything to avoid the obvious speculation about the forint. We very much hope, although I asked the government before the agenda today, but I did not get an answer to my question that the secret visit of the Hungarian Defence Commander to Ukraine is no longer part of this bedtime, because then this is a very dangerous game that the Hungarian Government has launched in order to give Hungary the EU funds which were otherwise completely illegally withheld and insanely withheld. So we trust that this bedtime does not go far enough to bring Hungary into a war that is in no way in the interest of Hungary and the Hungarian people. So the political statement itself is okay from this point of view. The fact that the government is giving in to blackmail now goes to bed and gives up the interests of Hungary, but that is not okay. Thank you. [[Novak's First Clap.]]
u2022-07-11-255	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Vajda, MSZP Group.
u2022-07-11-256	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Colleagues, For the first time, you supported this global minimum tax, and now, for some reason, you're out of it. The exact reasons why they were supported then and why they left now are still not fully understood, but the fact that you do not want to get the unknown owners of the global multi-networks to pay higher taxes. However, for example, they have now attacked the catatoses, saying that they do not pay enough taxes and that many abuse the opportunity. Otherwise, they shouldn't be bothered by the global minimum tax, especially not in the light of one of their favorites, Audi, you know, the one in the right back seat of which you guys tend to bloat. [[Noise from the pro-government side. Dr. Répássy Róbert: That was the MSZP! That was Gyurcsány! Zsolt Nitrai: Find out!]] So, Audi doesn't even pay nine percent corporate tax. Ah, there's also a sentence with a candlestick, and the Secretary of State speaks to my speech in substance. I'll be waiting for your answer. [[19.40]] So, the Audi, which I think might be quite a favourite of you, because, let's say, in the last five years, you've been paying, on average, slightly over 0.5 per cent a year, not 9 per cent, 0.5 per cent, say, 4 billion instead of 61 billion. You're talking about something national. Wouldn't it be in national interest, say, to tax the Audi, while, once again, the catatonics are being sucked to pieces, quartered, and now they're ruining what they're doing? I would also like to point out, in case you do not know, that tomorrow at 10:00 a.m., there will be a demonstration here in front of our Parliament, where you will be protested against. Anyway, now I have this party politics coming up... I think it's a collection of horse-zungs, which reminds me of a World War II anecdote when Hungary declared war on the United States. The anecdote is telling you that we all know that, of course, the ambassador of Hungary is said to have only one anecdote entered the D.C. State Department, handed over the declaration of war, and then I tell you that it is said that this only anecdote was the following conversation between them: What is your state form? Cool. And who is their king? We don't have a king. We have a governor. Who's the governor? Admiral Horthy Horthy Horthy. And do you have a sea? Well, there isn't. I see. Do you have any territorial claims against the U.S.? No. Do you have any territorial claims against a country? Yeah. Austria, Czechoslovakia, Romania. I see. And do they have war against them? No, they're our allies. Well, that's what the anecdote said, anecdote, of course. The U.S., as I recall, I haven't watched the news in the last few hours, but I do remember that it's still our ally, but with your logic, I think it would be worth it again, to declare war on the United States, even if it's the work of a man, this statement that we see here is a work of man, because, for example, at today's Economic Committee, we had to correct grammatical errors and spelling errors in it, a fast-pressed wormwork, so show us whose power is better. ! So, here's the thing. This forced orbit that you're doing, it's been laid by your prime minister during his first administration. You know, this obsessive course is about you always doing the opposite, always saying the opposite of what others, even the majority, represent. You know, they say black even when they know it's white. You remember what he said, don't you? If the small railway is attacked, it must be extended to Bicska, and if it is still attacked, then it will be to Riding Harbor. So, again, I think you've announced that, for some reason, you don't support the minimum tax. They were trying to blackmail you on the side of the road, and now, when everything falls on you, and they realize that without the EU money there's going to be a huge problem, they're going to leave and try to get out of this now. That's how I understand this piece of paper we got. But you still have to maintain your previous position, so you write such a cautious thing, such an awkward struggle. So I'm telling you what you guys say, right? If you're a man, you're a man. Come on, get in there till you're ready. Hungarian man, don't let go! What's with the attitude, my dear colleagues, of the mother-in-law's soldier? Of course, we do not always have to agree on everything with our allies, including the EU. Hungary's dependent position is a fact. However, I think you should be much smarter than that, because you are losing even the little credit you may have left. It doesn't make any sense. It's not even good for a bar rooster, what they do, as they say, is not manly. Come on, let's hit the EU even harder, and not just the EU, let's get the U.S. left out of this paper, hit the U.S., let's go! Hungary deserves more, go forward, not back! Go, Hungary! Go, Hungarians! That's how you do it. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs: Where's the iron applause?]]
u2022-07-11-257	Dear Parliament, I will now give the floor to Member István Hollik for a two-minute speech to the extent possible. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-07-11-258	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. We have learned much in this debate, but we have not learned whether Jobbik has supported this political statement or not. Dániel Z. Kárpát did not speak about this for a reason, and it is embarrassing that he should join the party of Ferenc Gyurcsány, who is a visionary of the European united states, and reject this political statement. We did not find out what their views were about political pressure in the European Union, and they did not say a word about it in the debate. They couldn't even tell us why they wanted me in the midst of the biggest economic and energy crisis in Europe. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] raise taxes. I wish they'd talked about it. Thank you very much. [[Applause on the pro-government side.]]
u2022-07-11-259	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Ferenc David, DK Group, in two minutes.
u2022-07-11-260	Thank you for this opportunity, I will be brief, and I will respond to Mr Hollik's comment. You probably misunderstood me when I was talking about 26 states and one not. But we can turn it around, so just because there's 26 of them doesn't mean they're right. You have said that it is not necessary to condemn it if one person stands up for his opinion, then it is not necessarily a misguided and not necessarily a veto. But I'll turn it around. Can't you imagine that 26 European countries, let's say, are also around Hungary and in similar economic conditions, or do they think something right? Don't get me wrong, I don't think I can convince you, just to have an objective exchange of views, and it wouldn't be a disadvantage if it were. The other thing I would like to share with you is that I do not know how much you remember, when in Hungary until 2016, until the end of 2017, 19 percent of the corporate tax was paid, and then the 19 percent corporate tax was reduced to 10 percent and then to 9 percent. Of the 10 percent, small and medium-sized enterprises received 1 percent, and large entrepreneurs, where there was a HUF 500 million profit tax, were brought down from 19 to 9. So when my fellow Members resent that in tax policy they do not support the small ones, not the crowd, not the micro- and small businesses, it is in this context that this happened in 2017, you can check this out calmly, Mr President, that is how it happened. And what I don't really understand is the connection to the budget. Therefore, Hungary would have budgetary revenue from this tax. You know perfectly well that this current budget is a stretched budget, and to give up in this stretched budget to make this tax go in, I consider it an unnecessary luxury. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And to conclude, even if I may say to the Member that you said about the veto, I wanted to say that at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Mr President might still remember me having a proposition, and he was here last time at the minimum bidder, that we should not veto, but postpone the decision, and that you would not have agreed to do so, which I think would have been appropriate. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] You said there was an uncertain situation, quoted the American situation, that it was possible that the power balance in the United States might change. We suggested that it be postponed then. (The President indicated the expiry of the time limit.) Now I'm asking you: is it because we made a proposal to postpone a minority that needs to be pushed down? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2022-07-11-261	Dear Parliament, I'm going to ask if someone else would like to speak in the remaining time frame. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I'll ask President Erik Bánki for an answer. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I will inform you, Mr President, you have a 15-minute timeframe. Here you go.
u2022-07-11-262	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to summarise very briefly what has been said in the debate, as we have heard about the same thing as the last time we adopted the parliamentary resolution proposal, the opposition's position has practically not changed. I would particularly like to thank my fellow Member, Enikő Győri, of the European Parliament, for considering today's agenda so important to come here. I am saddened to see that no MEP on the opposition side thought it important to participate in a national parliamentary debate, where we are about to adopt a resolution which, in our view, is trying to put Hungary in a position that is unfavorable with unfair pressure. But this is not surprising, because those who look at European politics see that left-wing representatives in the European Parliament are constantly voting against the interests of Hungary, and they are not interested in the fact that the decision of the European Parliament is useful or harmful to the people of Europe, and I even see that they prefer to vote for decisions that are particularly harmful to Hungary and the Hungarian nation. [[19.50]] I would also like to thank Mrs Hollik for pointing out the important issue that I have already said in the debate on the Parliamentary resolution proposal, and I have also said in the Expoze that it is completely unnecessary for me to rush ahead with my fellow Member Hollik, and I fully agree with the Member, and it is completely unnecessary for us to rush forward and take a measure that restricts ourselves, as far as Europe is concerned, and that we know that neither Asia nor the United States are in favour of this issue. In the parliamentary debate of the Parliamentary motion for a resolution, I quoted five or six U.S. congressmen or senators, without exception Republicans who said that they would not, under any circumstances, support a measure concerning the adoption of the global minimum tax. Given that, as Mr Hollik mentioned in his speech, there will be elections in November and, according to forecasts, a Republican majority in Congress, it is precisely foreseen that the United States of America will not support any such proposal. I do not understand where the European Parliament is rushing under these circumstances. Why are you pushing for a decision to adopt a directive that is clearly detrimental to us? After all, as has already been said in previous speeches, the issue of the taxation of technology giants cannot be resolved by the OECD until 1 January, since they are so late and delayed, interestingly because of the blocking of the United States, which they have already indicated that before 1 January, it is impossible for them to make a decision. So, in part, at this point, in agreement with my colleague Ferenc Dávid, Vice-President of the Economic Committee, we may be able to talk about a 24-hour introduction, but now we find it completely pointless. The reason why we have not accepted the amendment proposal before is because we believe that we need a firm and firm resolution, which is important in order to improve the negotiating positions of the Hungarian government in Europe, because there is a parliamentary decision behind the Prime Minister that strengthens his position, confirms that the Hungarian people, the Hungarian Parliament, have a completely different position than the other 26 EU countries in this case. I think that not only is it right, but it can be expected of the Hungarian Parliament to express itself on all matters that it considers unfair and non-profit towards Hungary. This decision of the European Parliament, which was taken last Thursday, is exhausting this category, so I was also happy to take the position at the Economic Committee meeting to submit a political resolution by the Committee and to ask my fellow Members to support it. I would not separate opposition speeches because practically all of them are on the wrong track and on the political rhetoric that we represent the interests of multinational companies. In fact, Congressman Antal Csárdi went all the way to calling for us to finally represent Hungary's interests within these walls. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] It has been able to bring out a rather strong source of information from the pro-government representatives, as we have all, for example, for 24 years, since I have been in this Parliament, in every case I have been able to support decisions of the interests of the Hungarian people and of the interests of Hungarian society, and this is no different. We are the national government, who has represented the interests of the Hungarian people in every decision since 2010, who are launching a national consultation, so that we can know what the Hungarian society thinks, who are willing to represent the Hungarians' position against the European Commission or the European Parliament, even when they are pouring hundreds of naked attacks on us. We think that is why the Hungarian people chose us. Ladies and gentlemen, You don't have to go far. We won by two-thirds four times. More than 3 million Hungarians voted for us in the last elections. It's not a coincidence. Such support can only be obtained by parties, Fidesz and KDNP, who consistently represent the interests of the Hungarian people, represent the interests of Hungarian businesses. This proposal we have here is not about anything else. This represents the interests of Hungary's businesses, because I think that if we rush ahead unnecessarily with the adoption of this European Union directive, we will be seriously damaging domestic businesses, businesses that maintain Hungarian jobs, and thus the Hungarian people as well. That is why I am asking my fellow Members to support the proposal before us. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-11-263	Thank you, Mr President, for your answers. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, There will be a debate on the Commission's reports on defence data management and the summary amendment proposal. The government referral T/211. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Dávid Héyj, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2022-07-11-264	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 7 July 2022, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/211 on defence data management. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 27 votes in favour, 6 votes against and 7 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The proposal before us is another step in renewing the security and security structure of our country. The aim of the renewal of the structure is to create a single legal environment that allows for a more effective response to the current security challenges. The reform started with the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law in 2020. Since then, we have adopted a number of new or substantially renewed legislation as part of the process here in this House. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law on defence data management is in line with the new law on defence law adopted last year, and is largely based on the current law on defence data management. Therefore, it does not generate new data management, but it organises the rules of defence data management in a more logical, transparent system. The proposal submitted adequately defines the categories of data controllers, reporting agents and responsibilities. It also corrects minor errors in the application of the current legislation. I would like to note that the Legislative Committee has adopted a proposal for an amendment, which is relatively extensive, but which consists predominantly of clarifications to establish legal, linguistic and legislative coherence for the draft submitted. As an add-on, I would like to mention the possibility of processing persons who are not engaged in an armed military service, the more precise determination of the range of persons involved in the military commitment on the basis of age, as well as some data processing periods. Ladies and gentlemen, In the current international environment affected by war and crises, it is extremely timely to renew our defence and security system as soon as possible. The legislative elements of the new structure would have originally entered into force on 1 July 2023, but the process needs to be accelerated. The new target date is 1 November 2022, to which the present proposal is already adapted. It is important to stress that Hungary's security depends on the success of this reform. In view of this, the proposed legislation should be supported. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-07-11-265	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Tamás Vargha, State Secretary, if he would like to speak at this stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] Mr Secretary of State points out that he does not wish to speak at this stage of the debate. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the designated National Defence and Police Committee has not presented a rapporteur. We now have speeches from Members. First, I would like to give the floor to Mr President Novák, who made a written statement of his intention to speak. Here you go.
u2022-07-11-266	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The bill on defence processing does not expand. Unfortunately, even after the 35-page legislative Commission amendment proposal, we can see that almost all of society would be registered as having been vaccinated against the coronal virus or not. After all, there is a serious sentence in the bill:. To ensure the introduction of the military obligation and the recruitment of the voluntary reserve staff, there is a need to keep records of untrained forces during peace periods and in a special legal order. And here is the list of information on the inclusion of vaccination. Dear Secretary of State, I do not want to stress how much this vaccine actually protects me from the coronal virus, but it may not be sporty right now, but I must say that those who have not taken up vaccination are considered essentially unfit for military service. [[20.00]] While according to the Fundamental Law, all Hungarian citizens are obliged to protect their country, we see that with such a loophole, they also give us a quasi-opportunity to negligee the constitutional obligation, but as a question, it is certain that it was a good idea to send soldiers and police officers who had not submitted the vaccination, especially with regard to the shortage of staff that has been encrypted since 2016, but without specific numbers, it is well known. Can anyone who hasn't been vaccinated wear a uniform in Ukraine? Unfortunately, we haven't had an answer yet. In fact, in our experience, although the bill does not seem to be facing reality, it does not describe the practice of registering a political worldview in the defence, since many times because of its national commitment, because of its involvement in national radical organizations, such as the connection of the Sixty-four Várgye to the Youth Movement, it may have been possible for several persons to be rejected by the defence, even in the case of a voluntary reserve military service. It is extremely painful that they are still not breaking up with this, even decades after the alleged change of regime. And in view of this permanent emergency, which is constantly being imposed on us in the context of various extraordinary legal orders, and given the lack of permanent numbers, would it not be good to include those national emotional young people who would volunteer for defence, but who were actually driven away because of their national radical attachment? Will more radical patriots also be driven away in Ukraine when they apply to be soldiers? And are you surprised that the Hungarian Guard and similar organizations will be strengthened after the defense kicks young people with national commitment out of the organization with two legs instead of open arms? We should finally face this, and it would be good if the law on defence data management were to reflect reality more honestly, and in this sense they would not illegally pursue the practice that they deny, of course, but we also offered the previous Minister of Defence concrete examples to examine why applicants for defence volunteer, reserve, or even contractual or professional defence service were rejected from the army because of their national commitment. And while according to the Fundamental Law, all Hungarian citizens are obliged to protect their country, the state does not provide the basic training required for this, in general, and especially for those who would apply to the military, but let's say because of their national radical attachment or even because of their inoculation, those who were never soldiers would still be enlisted under the rules in force, and thus their chances of survival would be less. Let us say that the protection of Hungary is not guaranteed in the current state of defence, as the abolition of the military service that had been bleeding from several wounds has been a serious blow to the self-defense power of our country, as the providers of its task system have not been fully replaced. Our NATO membership involves giving up our independence, serving most American interests. The alliance does not protect us against other NATO Member States, let us think about the Greek-Turkish conflict, and let us also say that our contractual obligation would in principle only help us in the event of an attack by a Member State, but the secret Hungarian military visit to Ukraine supports what the overzealousness of our governments to date is that we have been involved in more foreign service, occupations, such as Afghanistan, Iraq; our developments in the military industry have also considered this aspect instead of protecting the country, let us think of the extravagance of the Gripens, while they can fly the entire Carpathian Basin with a tank, while, for example, the necessary military exercises in Hungary have not had enough money. Dear Secretary of State, Here, I am missing a number of things from the 35-page legislative Commission amendment, which I have drawn attention to here, but the principles, fairness and legal aspects have also been ignored, even though I have drawn attention to the definition of the veteran soldier, for example. With due respect, let's start with one of the specific criticisms, because it is the veteran soldier from the military. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] it is, I think, a restrictive restriction which is just as unacceptable as the disregard for other amendments. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-07-11-267	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-07-11-268	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for the word and opportunity. We are all in a difficult situation because there is a war going on next door, and several Hungarian and international experts have consistently said that security risks can increase significantly throughout the world during this decade. And we can clearly only aim to protect Hungary's peace and security, and one of the building blocks or gears of this process is this proposal, which lies before us now, which seems technical, but is extremely important, and which has a precedent, which is a fundamental law amendment in terms of defence and security tasks. This brought with it a review of several areas, and in this way a review of legislation related to the processing of military and defence data was necessary. This law gives an answer on the part of the government. What the author proposes makes data processing more clearly transparent, logical and clearer in relation to citizens, the voluntary reserve stock. (The President's seat is Dóra Dúró, Vice-President of the Parliament.) I think that we need to keep up with the times in all areas, so we need to do this in particular in the field of defence today. It is also intended to avoid data loss. I propose to my fellow Members, the Hungarian Parliament, that they support this proposal. Indeed, the TAB has made several points, but I consider them to be of a technical nature in the first place. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-07-11-269	Welcome, fellow Members. At the same time, I'd like to ask if someone else would like to speak out against the remaining time frame. [[For signal:]] Mr. President Novak has come forward on a case-by-case basis. There you go. I'll give you the floor.
u2022-07-11-270	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, I would like to propose that one party should give time from its own time frame to the Group of the Hungarian Movement, all the more so because I have applied as the sole representative for the debate on the summary amendment proposal. We have a 35-page legislative committee amendment proposal ahead of us, and since I have applied as a single Member, and I have plenty to say, and most factions do not want to comment on it, I ask you to [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs: This is not order of business!]] at least the representatives of the factions present, if, as deputy group leader, they obviously have the right to pass a time frame from their time frame in the spirit of camaraderie solidarity to the debate of the law on defence processing. Thank you very much.
u2022-07-11-271	Mr President, your speech was not a point of order. At the same time, I would like to inform you that I do not see any of the applicants who would like to hand over time from their own time frame to the Group of the Hungarian Movement, so I would like to ask the rapporteur how he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Secretary Tamás Vargha indicates that he wishes, so I'll give you the floor, please.
u2022-07-11-272	Thank you very much. Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the contributions of my fellow Members, with which you supported this bill. I have two things to tell you. There is a basic training system in the Hungarian Defence Office, and this is very timely right now, in July, as it is possible to apply until 15 August for a voluntary military service that lasts six months, of which two months of basic training and four months of vocational training, and may be extended by another 6 months for voluntary service or voluntary service. [[20.10]] This is voluntary, but, of course, payment is also due, with the minimum wage for two months, and during vocational training, the minimum wage of skilled workers will be paid for this service. You can apply until 15 August, and we look forward to the application of Hungarian youth to the recruitment offices in Hungary. One more thought: today, in this House, there have been several debates about the horror of a certain secret visit to Ukraine. It is a horror because how can a visit on the Facebook of the Hungarian Defence Office be secret and a visit by Lt-Gen Russin-Sendi Romulus, which he did in Ukraine at the invitation of the Ukrainian Chief of Staff. So there was no secret visit. Thank you very much for your support, and I trust that the Parliament will support this proposal. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-11-273	Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken at our later meeting. The Commission's reports on Hungary's central budget for 2023 and the final proposal for an amendment follow up. The submission was made in T/152. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I inform the Parliament that the presentation will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. The detailed discussion of the draft budget law was carried out by the committees. Report by the Committee on Budgets on the detailed debate T/152/457. T/152/456 was proposed by the Commission which closed the detailed debate. The reports of the committees related to the debate are available on the IT network on numbers T/152/444, 445 and 447-455, 457-460. Dear Parliament, T/152/462 of the Committee on Budgets, acting in the role of the Committee on Legislative Affairs, in the course of the hearing of the bill. I, and the summary report on the Commission's proposals for amendments to the in-depth debate, T/152/463. Available on the website. The rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets will be the first to take the floor in the debate. I would like to remind you that, according to the provisions of the House Rules, the rapporteur of the committee, with a summary of the opinions of the negotiating committees, and the description of the minority opinion, in summary of the minority opinions expressed in writing, can speak within a total of 60 minutes, with 30 minutes for the presentation of the minority opinion. I give the floor to Lajos Szűcs, rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets. Here you go.
u2022-07-11-274	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, We are looking at a legislative proposal for a central budget for 2023, which had a general debate on a 30-hour timeframe between 22 and 24 June. In addition to the Committee on Budgets, the Budget Act was also discussed by all the standing committees of Parliament and the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities and conducted a detailed debate. Each of the negotiating committees concluded that the bill complied with the resolution house rule 44. § (1) of the Act meets the requirements of the Fundamental Law, so the bill complies with the substantive and formal requirements resulting from the Fundamental Law and is in line with the legal system's unity and complies with the obligations arising from international law and European Union law. Dear House, In the committees where, as a separate opinion, only compliance with the resolution rules has been described by the committee, I will only tell you the name of the committee and this compliance. However, a large part of the negotiating committees have also expressed their opinions, and I will tell you all of them. I'll start with the Committee on Budgets first. In the elections, the government was strongly empowered to see what people would like to see from the new government, because in spring people voted for peace and security. With this in mind, the government has set two main priorities for the future: customs and defence. For the government, families are also extremely important in these extraordinary times, and childbearing and child rearing must continue to be supported. In 2023, the budget provides nearly HUF 3225 billion in support of families. This is nearly HUF 450 billion higher than in 2022. In the budget, both this year and next year, there is funding to preserve the real value of pensions. The amount of funds available for this purpose will be close to HUF 4900 billion next year. The budget for 2023 allocates more than HUF 370 billion to pay the full 13th month's pension. In addition to the 13th month benefit, the pension premium will remain in 2023, so that older people can benefit from the results of economic growth. In 2023, the government put HUF 24.9 billion in a special reserve for the payment of the pension premium, accounting for an increase of 4.1 percent in national products. The government continues to aim at maintaining high employment, because, as we say, when there is work, there is everything. We can say that a million new jobs have been created compared to 2010, but it is also important to help create additional jobs for greater economic growth. Therefore, employment-related employers' and employees' tax levels remain low, and the State supports corporate investments that create job creation, efficiency and higher domestic added value. In line with the expected performance of the economy, gross and net average earnings may increase by more than 10%. We can say that almost all areas have more resources in 2023 compared to this year. In addition to what has been said so far, the government will spend 200 billion more on education, 100 billion more on health care, and the law enforcement spending will exceed HUF 965 billion next year, which is about HUF 517 billion compared to 2010, i.e. more than double the increase. With next year's budget, we will protect the results achieved so far and ensure the protection of the reduction of the rent, the safety of the country and the Hungarian families. And the Rezségvédelmi és Honvédelmi Fund allows Hungarian people not to pay the price of the war, but companies achieving extra profit during the war. Opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. In the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade in 2023, HUF 103 billion is available for the operation of the foreign representation network. Next year, the Ministry will continue its external economic activity based on export development and investment promotion, with no less than HUF 130 billion available for investment promotion appropriations that are key to job creation and technological transfer. In addition, economic and infrastructure development programmes will continue to help improve the living conditions of Hungarians living in neighbouring countries and thus remain in the homeland. A new element in the budget of the portfolio is the highly successful, well-known Hungarian Helps, and the Stipendium Hungaricum programme is available for HUF 3.9 billion, specifically to support the studies of Ukrainian higher education students who were forced to flee due to the Russian-Ukrainian war. To sum up, the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade will ensure that the portfolio successfully copes with its tasks and with the consequences of the war in our neighbourhood, and will successfully contribute to the achievement of the overall objectives of the central budget. Opinion of the Committee on Sustainable Development. The three pillars of sustainable development are: ensuring social, economic stability and ensuring the meaningful use of natural resources. [[20.20]] The right to a healthy environment is guaranteed by the Fundamental Law. The sustainable use of natural resources, the protection of natural heritage and the rehabilitation of environmental quality are essential to this effect and to improve quality of life, with the budget of 2023 providing more than HUF 3 billion for this wall data. Thinking is of the utmost importance for the conservation of ground resources. It is also important to provide adequate support for research into environmental problems and their solutions. Overall, the budget for 2023 allocates more than HUF 170 billion to the National Research, Development and Innovation Fund. In the current war situation, country leaders pay great attention to ensuring adequate supply of energy. National energy policy aims at ensuring safe, environmentally sustainable and affordable energy production, while improving the efficiency of energy use and reducing the country's energy dependency. The government proposes to provide HUF 81 billion for this purpose within the budget allocation for 2023. As stated in the circular of the Hungarian Catholic Episcopal Conference:. Protecting the environment is more than ensuring the living conditions of present and future generations, since man's relationship with God, humans and the created world is one. Protecting the natural environment is nothing more than protecting and promoting the common good, that is, human dignity. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, The opinion of the Committee on Economic Affairs: at present, the Hungarian government is almost the only one in Europe talking not about sanctions and war, but about the need for peace. The most important goal is that Hungary should stay out of the war, and not the Hungarian people should pay the price of the war. Due to the prolonged Russian-Ukrainian war and the energy and sanctions policy in Brussels, the most important task now is to preserve Hungary's peace and security and to ensure the country's energy supply, to protect its debt reduction and to develop its forces. The budget therefore includes a Rehabilitation and Defence Fund. The fund's revenue in 2023 is nearly HUF 1450 billion, which comes from the extra-profit and other revenues. Thanks to the reduction of the rent, Hungarian families currently pay the most favourable rent in the European Union. The aim is to continue to maintain the reduction of the rent for the Hungarian population. This is the service of the Rezief Protection Fund, to which the government will spend HUF 670 billion. The Defence Fund creates the sources of further defence development and strengthens the physical security of our country. The fund's budget amounts to HUF 842 billion in 2023, while all defence expenditures reach 2% of the total national product. There is a need for further strengthening of security not only because of war, but also because of migration. The economic crisis caused by the war is launching another wave of migration to Europe. Hungary has been on its own to protect borders. As a result of government measures and the economic reboot after the coronal virus epidemic, growth reached pre-epidemic levels, and even in 2021 Hungarian economic growth reached a record. The aim is to continue growth next year, but the effects of the war and its economic effects can slow this down, so we expect a 4.1 percent increase in 2023. Further economic development measures will be taken by the government to maintain economic growth. The aim is to maintain high employment and real wage growth, as well as to increase production capacity, thereby further increasing exports and Hungary's share of the world market. The investment rate which has risen to record height in recent years remained at a high level in 2021, and in the coming years its value could increase to 28 percent in 2023. Opinion of the National Security Committee: Overall, the National Security Committee showed a HUF 16 billion increase in support of services in the budget. For the first time, the budget of the secret services will exceed HUF 100 billion. Budget support for military and civilian services in 2023 creates a financial background for defending Hungary's national sovereignty despite increasing threats. The Committee on Defence, People's Welfare, Culture, Nationalities in Hungary and the Committee on Justice have also established the compliance of the budget proposals. The opinion of the Committee on Agriculture follows. The draft law on the central budget for 2023 is set out in Annex XII. The article is about the Agricultural Ministry, which includes an appropriation of HUF 220 billion. In this way, the Agricultural Ministry can manage from a budget of HUF 10 billion higher than in 2022. The budget framework of the Agricultural Ministry can be allocated to three main tasks. The first is the provision of responsibilities with the institutions, for which HUF 81 billion will be available in the budget of 2023. This includes, among other things, the necessary collateral for the administration of the Agricultural Ministry, so that the Minister of Agriculture and the wallet can carry out the duties and duties necessary for the performance of his duties and powers. This framework also covers the National Food Chain Safety Office, stud farms, agricultural secondary vocational education institutions, the Hungarian Agricultural Museum and Library, the National Centre for Earth Affairs and the National Park Directorates. The second is the allocation of appropriations with chapter management, in which HUF 120.4 billion is available. This represents an increase of HUF 3.3 billion compared to last year. The third larger set is the provision of central management appropriations, for which HUF 18.6 billion is available in 2023, which is HUF 5.6 billion higher. Finally, the food shortage resulting from the Russian-Ukrainian war in our eastern neighbourhood, such as grain and oil seeds, will be uncertain. We have a significant export capacity, so in this wartime, tense period, our position will be maintained and even strengthened by next year's budget. It can be concluded that all the necessary funds are available for the further good operation of Hungarian agriculture. The opinion of the Committee on National Inclusion: Since 2010, total government resources for national policy purposes have increased tenfold. Today, this is more than HUF 100 billion. In the new governance structure, national policy issues are basically dealt with in two places. Thus, we find the relevant resources in the chapters of the Prime Minister's Office and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. However, it is important to note that despite inter-wallet groupings, the continuity of all national policy programmes and support that have become systemic will continue to be ensured next year. The opinion of the Committee on Enterprise Development: the Hungarian Government has undertaken to protect jobs, pensions, families and the reduction of overhead in a prolonged war environment. The resources for this are provided by budget 2023. [[20.30]] In order to protect Hungarian families from the extra costs caused by the war, the government introduced extraordinary price-stop measures that curb price increases for certain selected products. In this situation, it is crucial to maintain the purchasing power of families, which is ensured through the government's family protection measures, such as the personal income tax refund for children, the personal income tax exemption for women with at least four children, the retirement of the 13th month pension, and the personal income tax exemption for those under 25 years of age. The Committee welcomes the fact that, on the basis of the draft budget law, investment in increasing production capacities and technological improvements to improve efficiency will continue to be decisive in the coming years. Despite the crisis, an extremely high investment rate of more than 27 percent could continue to rise, thanks to the ability of the domestic economy to attract capital, the attractive corporate environment and the competitive tax system. Overall, household consumption could increase by 4.3 percent in 2023. With an annual economic growth of around 4 per cent, the budget expects to continue to reduce the budget deficit and reduce public debt in 2023. The opinion of the European Commission on European Affairs: the total amount of HUF 2589 billion for EU funds will be allocated to Hungary next year, both through investment and structural funds in the budget, other EU programmes and direct agricultural subsidies outside the budget. Your Honour, Madam President. On the basis of the summarised opinions expressed, I would ask this House to support the bill and thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-07-11-275	Dear Parliament, The minority opinion will now be presented in a 30-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Vajda. Here you go.
u2022-07-11-276	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. I will simply read the opinions of three factions received by a committee, like my colleague, simply, managing your time. I will read the opinion of the dialogue fraction I received, the LMP fraction, and then the Momentum fraction literally. And I will manage your time so much that I will give my own faction and the opinion of the MSZP in the faction circle. First, I would like to give you the minority opinion of the member of the committee belonging to the Group of Dialogue. Ladies and gentlemen, The history of this budget dates back to at least thirty years, as this budget has been the last thirty years, and the continuation of the failed Hungarian economic policy of the last ten years. This budget reeks of economic policy, the result of which is that the losers of the regime are getting lower and the winners are living in a better and better way. Ladies and gentlemen, I was raised by my mother, alone, working as a social worker in child protection. I know what it's like to eat greasy bread at the end of the month if there's nothing else. My family was the family of the losers of the change of regime, and the fact that I am here now is not the Hungarian normal, I owe it not to your political elite, but to the job's best luck. While you are crying out for a nation state, fighting for sovereignty and flogging foreign capital, it is clear from this budget that the nation state is used only in the interest of their political interests, their own elites and not for the nation as a whole, that sovereignty is not the sovereignty of the people, but of their own power, and that they are fighting with the great capital only if it is in their power interests and not when it is in the interests of the people. You're not trying to move the people forward, you're trying to create new chief priests, new oligarchs. You have learned nothing from the mistakes of the Hungarian economy before 2010, and you have no concept of pulling the country out of a crisis. You are the lucky knights of the global economic growth of the last ten years, and let us acknowledge that you are the most skilled users of power magic. If we look at next year's budget, we can see that they continue to pay the workers. Instead, we tell the rich to pay. It is unacceptable for us that you want to fill the gaps in the budget from VAT, sja, excise duty, which, yes, in addition to the war, and yet your corrupt government for their power and their power are poured out by their completely irrational distribution of economic policy. You are pursuing a tax policy that serves the unspoken magic of your word, the paying of the employees! It's for your needs. You have reduced corporate taxes to 9 percent and let the biggest companies pay even less tax with the trick. Audi should have paid 60 billion in the last five years, instead paying 3.9 billion corporate taxes. And what's in it for them? A little more support is 8.5 billion, twice as much as their tax on the last five years to create 500 jobs that will be filled by workers from jobs to be closed soon. You give Audi 17 million forints for a new job, they pay the wage costs for three years in advance. Obviously, the Audi is still bringing some to the country. But how much does it take? How much do you leave to get me out? How much do you leave with the rich when you're taken from the people? You are trying to fill the budget holes with 27 percent VAT and inflation, the weak forint. While they are tying $2,000 billion off the workforce, they are collecting $650 billion from the special taxes alone, most of which are consumption-type taxes that they know are going to be passed on to the people. Then whose side are you on? Who's gonna pay? You will inflate the salaries, and while Orbán's salary, the salaries of the ministers are increased, you hope that the multinationals will increase the salaries of their employees due to weak forints. This will increase the average wage and your associated salary, but the real value of the salaries of police officers, teachers, nurses, firefighters, social workers and cultural workers will decrease. In the meantime, seasonal work will increase the tax on chips most affecting the poorer and it is expected to increase the tax burden on most of the now available jobs. You are pursuing a policy that increases the differences in this country so that you can understand it: the high priest and the nation's day laborers. While you are lying about sharing a burden, while there is no tax on casinos, there is no tax on the companies of Mészáros, Garancsi and Tiborcz. While there is no solution to the housing crisis, there is no solution to rising food prices, there is no solution to the emerging social crisis, you are still pursuing a perverted redistribution in which the richer receive twice as much support from the state as the troubled. It's not a community, it's not a nation, it's a budget for feeding their own power. This budget is a continuation of the post-regime economic policy described best in the report of the German Chamber of Industry in May. According to German companies, taxes and salaries are low and labour law in Hungary is weak, although skills have improved, but not the Hungarian education system has improved, but you are bringing in foreign workers at an amazing pace. On the other hand, the lack of security of the rule of law and corruption hinder competitiveness. This is your Hungary. Five years ago, only 8 million, today we are paying 17 million forints to create a job. For three years in advance, they pay the workers' wages to the big companies. Hungarian companies could also be successful from this. And the money that they give direct support, they give it tax relief, they give it to multinationals in unpaid taxes, they lack Hungarian medium-sized enterprises, they lack education, they lack health care, they lack this budget. The money from which they pay their own power, their oligarchs, is missing from the salaries of teachers, firefighters, social workers, policemen, people working in culture. You are building the state from crisis to crisis, making more money out of the country, pouring more money from the state into your own pockets and leaving less and less to the Hungarian people in the development of the Hungarian economy. And crises are coming faster and faster. Capitalism uses human and natural resources as one, conquering new and new territories. We see how the transformation of the natural conditions in Syria has contributed to the civil war and this refugee crisis, and we see how desertification will contribute even more to this worldwide. We see that large epidemics are the result of the exploitation of nature's resources, and there is still a likelihood of an epidemic like Covid. [[20.40]] We can see how the fight for water, land, food, rare metals, requires redistribution of battery production, the market for electric cars. In this situation, what you are doing is building Hungary on a crisis-to-crisis model; that you do not strive for a strong public administration, public authorities, people, knowledge, health care, the protection of our environment; in a period of crisis such as this, this is a dead end of politics. A strong Hungarian state should be sought to protect the people, not the powerful, not the Archbishops, not the oligarchs. But this sovereignty, in fact, is popular sovereignty. This budget is a budget for cuts in Orbán, a neoliberal, anti-state budget based on chamumodernisation, which takes no account of needs. There's still a way back. You can still tax your casinos, Ripper; you can still bring a decent property tax; you can still manage the problems of living, housing, food crisis; even you can replace the drapes from the employees to the rich. They can also start building a new economic model based on knowledge and talent, creating opportunities and prosperity, making a living instead of working, human happiness instead of human resources. But the basis for this is not for the workers, but for the rich. They can open a new paper in the history of the Hungarian economy, which uses capital for the benefit of society as a whole; it strengthens medium-sized enterprises; it strengthens businesses that do not take out or distort capital; it can create world-class businesses and companies that are at least relevant in Europe; it can guide the Hungarian economy for up to 20-30 years. But we don't see that, we're seeing the Orban restrictions. What we're seeing is that you're going to appoint a high priest and raise the taxes of the day laborers. I think that says everything. Ladies and gentlemen, That is precisely why we can only alleviate the damage you cause; you are causing Budapest, Ferencváros and Józsefváros. We can only settle the withdrawals and promises that you owe to the people of Budapest, Józsefváros and Ferencváros. Please, as it is everywhere in the world, support public transport in Budapest with as much as the capital will put in it, as this community transport is not only used by the Hungarians, but also by all Hungarian citizens; according to the calculations, the proportion of users in Budapest and non-Budapest is also equal. We ask local authorities to be able to benefit from the public burden paid by the owners of motor vehicles, thereby ensuring the source of good quality public service for motor vehicle owners. The solidarity contribution of local authorities should remain at the level of 2019 for which the amending proposal takes the relevant rules and appropriations of the 2019 central budget literally. Don't take another 20 billion from the capital. Please give us the HUF 6 billion awarded to the Chain Bridge. They have no right to sell Budapest, and they have no interest in it, because without Budapest there is no Hungary, there is no Budapest without Hungary. Support the solidarity fund created by the capital city to generate an additional HUF 300 million from state resources. The livelihood crisis that you will continue to strengthen is causing huge problems. The capital solidarity fund is trying to address these problems, the problems for the poor and the problems caused by poverty. In my constituency, where the country has most social care systems, the current homeless system you bleed out of the money you lack in social work is one of the difficulties for homeless people and local residents. Please support it, and I urge Máté Kocsis in particular, and he should also support more money to solve the common problems of homeless people and the Yovezváros. Please also support the arrival of at least 300 million forints in Józsefváros for energy investments; obviously, a national programme would be needed to renovate condominiums and panel houses, which would reduce our overhead, our energy dependency, and the planet, but since we do not see this, please at least help us in this district. The housing crisis is a huge problem and there is no support for the municipalities. Please help make 800 apartments available for use, which are empty, can be renovated and now owned by workers and families living in poor housing conditions. The municipality has no money for this because of your withdrawal, so do it. And what we yoga people are asking is that you keep the promises that Fidesz VIII made. His district politicians, Mr. Máté Kocsis, and Mr. Botond's future Archbishop Sára promised state budget money. Please support the confirmation of the local police by HUF 500 million, since the local police that you are supervising are barely on call for decommissioning. We also ask for support for the renovation of Horváth Mihály Square, Népszínház Street, Orczy Square and the Square of the Thirty-Twenties. The renovation of the district playgrounds, the renovation of the condominium and the opening and renewal of public toilets and district green spaces are also essential. We also ask you to support the renovation of the Dési Huber Cultural House at the József Attila residential estate, so that retirement and children's programmes can finally be implemented in better conditions. We don't see the first phase of Student City in the budget. This was not only promised in a contract with the capital, but also in a contract with Krisztina Baranyi in connection with the athletic stadium. At least the 4,000 dormitory seats should be built for our children, and not for some private developer, but for young people from the difficult situation in Pest and rural areas. Finally, on behalf of the Ferencváros, we ask that you support the urban rehabilitation. If not as before, but at least help renovate two houses in Ferencváros, and one in such a way as not only to alleviate the housing crisis, but also to improve the living conditions of disabled people. Not much to ask. An oligarch of yours gets more than that a month. This is all we humbly ask of the Archbishop lords for the people, a more livable Budapest and the return of resources taken from Budapest. In the foregoing, therefore, I presented the minority opinion of András Jámbor, the representative of the Dialogue, which he attached to the Committee on Budgets. And now the representatives of the Committee member of the LMP Group, I am going to express my apologies and minority opinions. This year, the country's budget will have to be adopted in the face of several interrelated, serious crises. We are at the beginning of a new period of danger, and this budget should prove that the government recognized them and prepared the country for it. Unfortunately, on the basis of the draft ahead, we can say that this is not the case. The government denies change, crises. The whole budget is based on the fact that next year everything will go back to normal. He's not coming back. Yet, instead of the future, the government looks to the past. The countries that quickly realize what the new world will be like and change accordingly will be the winners of any such major restructuring. According to the LMP, the solution to the economic crisis and runaway inflation is public service wage increases and greater contributions from rich companies and people. A crisis is always an additional burden for a society, and it is almost entirely the government's competence to bear the extra burden. The current neoliberal government has decided that Hungary should remain a tax haven for large foreign companies in the middle of such a crisis. At the same time, he is idly and helplessly observing that one month's wages for civil servants have already been taken away by inflation. It doesn't have to be that way, it's the consequences of the government's decisions. Unfortunately, the neoliberal Orbán government has been working for 12 years to provide extra profit to foreign corporations coming here, and not to mention public money to its own oligarchs. Meanwhile, he is treating his own employees extremely step-by-step, under-paying them, and is now preparing to fire tens of thousands. However, it would be in the interests of the country that public service workers should first ensure inflation-following wage increases and then complete wage arrangements in the public sector: standardising pay signs, linking them to the increased minimum wage, the guaranteed minimum wage and to a minimum of 30 per cent of the equivalent, ensuring normal career models. This can be covered by the fact that multinational companies and large domestic companies would pay a normal profit tax. Instead of today's 9 percent, they would be taxed with the re-introduced top key, which would be raised to 25 percent by an average corporate tax level in Europe. [[20.50]] Similarly, we would expect more contributions from rich people in the form of large wealth taxes and from high income earners in the form of progressive income tax. We have the energy crisis on our hands, and the solution is energy independence. The government's spasmodic attachment to Russian fossil fuels is against the interests of our country, and there are many casualties that are unnecessary. No solution is Western or other oil and gas imports. The solution is true energy independence: reducing our energy consumption, especially gas consumption by modernising the building stock, and making much more use of renewable energies, wind, sun and geothermal energy. This should also be supported by the budget, as should the need to reduce the energy use of transport by switching masses from driving to public transport, for example through a national climate lease. The solution to the food crisis is food self-determination, i.e. self-sufficiency. Instead of large estates that exploit soil, water and the environment, which produce raw materials for export, land and water conservation, based on family farms and cooperatives, can ensure the security of food supply so that everyone can have a healthy, affordable food, regardless of the storms of the world market. It is not a solution to further wandering the state's land, selling our national treasure, selling the land, we must reject that. Finally, the first and most urgent response to the climate and ecological crisis must be the green area moratorium. In the eyes of Fidesz, the green surface is just another opportunity to make money. The forest, the lake and nature are only sets for another hotel or tourist investment, from which the economic hinterland can fill its pockets, even though the integrity of our natural environment is the key to our survival. We would therefore call for a green land moratorium to stop the devastation. For example, for the expropriations required, the coastal bands of large lakes need budgetary resources, which could be covered by increased green taxes and product charges on the basis of the polluter-pays principle. In conclusion, this budget does not want to solve Hungary's problems, but to cover them. In our view, we needed a budget that would make our country fairer, more self-sufficient and more sustainable. The proposal submitted by the Government is not suitable for this, so we cannot support it, and we are attempting to improve it with our amendments. So until now, the representative of the LMP, Bernadett Bakos, on the committee, he is the delegated member, and I have read the opinion of the minority. Now, for the time being, because the position of the MSZP, as I have indicated, and then I will read it in that comment, I will give you the minority opinion of the member of the committee belonging to the Momentum Group. The government's budget is a budget of poverty, which does not harm the sacred cows of Fidesz, but hurts people's wallets, which also takes out extra profits for loss-making industries, while in the last decade it expects no extra contributions from the oligarchs of public money, the national capitalists of Mészáros and Szíyj, or foreign multinationals rewarded with gigantic tax incentives. Whoever has it is given to those who do not have it, even what he has can be missed. But not only in revenue planning, but also in spending, this unfair government approach prevails, because in the grip of hyperflationary, with a war next door, the government continues to spend hundreds of billions on communication and on basically controversial giant investments, such as the Paks II project, which will continue to be carried out by Russians who have fired nuclear power plants in the line of war crimes. It is extremely worrying that, apart from soldiers, Rosatom specialists have appeared in the Zaporizzs and Chernobyl nuclear power plants. This has not been the case before, and it violates fundamental principles of nuclear safety. When I see two Russian nuclear power plant chief engineers going into the Zaporizzsa site and trying to take over the operation, I get very bad feelings. These acts are absolutely unacceptable. If nuclear safety issues cannot be resolved in a satisfactory way, Russia, more specifically the Rosatom, is going to cut the wood out of the international nuclear profession. If things go on like this, no one in Europe will allow any power plant equipment delivered from Russia, whether computer, IT or control equipment, to be incorporated into a nuclear power plant, said Attila Aszodi, former government commissioner for Paks expansion. In such a situation, however, the project receives a HUF 150 billion capital increase. Despite the difficulties in the government budget, we would be able to protect Hungarian families from the dramatic poverty-saving effects of inflation. As an employer, the government should also set an example of protecting the standard of living of its own employees. Yet, some 600 thousand public service workers expect substantial wage increases, but they are not in next year's budget. The situation of teachers is particularly critical, as they have been on strike for six months with an immediate, 45 percent wage increase claim, which, according to experts, was absolutely justified if they wanted to halt the increasing growth of the teachers' shortage and restore the financial appreciation of the teaching profession. Yet, the government promises only a 10% wage increase next year, also from EU funds. With such inflation, this can be called maximum maintenance. This raise can be applied to their hair by teachers. Isn't the future of our children important to the governing parties? Isn't it important that you get enough teachers in schools, you get enough kindergarten teachers in kindergartens? But the situation is similar for hospital workers who have watched doctors raise their wages in recent years, while they have only got crumbs. The fact is now that more and more doctors are working as professionals, because there is a higher number of job vacancies. And then we didn't talk about the police, where, in one week, 300 people had been discharged from the force as soon as this opportunity opened up, while many had previously joined parties only to provoke their departure during the emergency termination ban. But firefighters and disaster workers also have such a shortage of numbers and demoralisation that it is already a threat to security of supply. But we must not forget the employees of the local government and government offices, the workers of the social and cultural sectors, the workers of the crèches, whom we talk less about, but the prospects for their earnings are just as pathetic. Katalin Novak used to call these public service salaries ridiculous, and I think it's rather painful and humiliating. Even though they have received some increases, some arms money in the election campaign, it is not enough to protect them from the cracks in price increases and to change the negative social perception of working in the public sector, to improve the increasing shortage of numbers, and to give real respect to those on their shoulders who rest our safety, the future of our children and the health of all of us. In addition to public sector workers, the budget puts those in need in a very difficult position, as the family allowance and the amount of social benefits remain constant, while prices remain in the stars. But we also miss the strong protection of our green values and the substantial action taken in the fight against the climate crisis. There is insufficient resources for energy development, renewable energy deployment and the development of environmentally friendly modes of transport, and our grandchildren will also regret this negligence. We need a future-protecting budget, which protects the well-being of Hungarians in times of crisis and ensures that Hungarian families plan their future in their homeland and not abroad. To do this, we need to spend taxpayers' money where it has the best place: hospitals, schools, jobs and the protection of our environment. The government's budget isn't like this, so the Momentum Movement faction can't support it. I gave the Commission's minority opinion on the Momentum fraction of Endre Tóth. Thank you very much for your patience, I finished the comment.
u2022-07-11-277	I ask the rapporteur that he wishes to speak at this stage of the debate. [[Péter Benő Banai indicates that he does not wish to speak.]] He says he doesn't want to say anything. The Secretary of State will have a total timeframe of 30 minutes for speeches and closing words during the debate. Dear Parliament, A five-minute window of time will now be held for the representative of nationality invited by the Committee on Nationality. I give the floor to President Imre Ritter, who explains the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. Here you go, Congressman. [[21.00]]
u2022-07-11-278	Sehr geehrter Herr Vorsitzender! Sehr geehrtes Parliament! Madam President, Dear House, At its meeting on 1 July 2022, the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities presented a proposal for an amendment drawn up by the Committee, which does not require any additional budgetary resources. For legal reasons, our amendments were formally tabled not as amendments to the Committee on Nationality, but as a summary amendment by the Committee on Budgets and adopted by the Committee on Budgets at its meeting on 7 July 2022. On behalf of the Committee on Hungarian Nationalities, in view of the present difficult economic situation and the security of our country, we have not tabled an amendment requiring additional budgetary resources. At the same time, I would like to stress that we have not renounced these amendments which require additional budgetary resources, and we intend to keep them on the agenda, since their necessity and justification cannot be called into question. I would like to highlight two such amendments: one is a significant increase in the specific operating aid amount of local self-governments that maintain institutions. In this area, on the one hand, we draw up a detailed numerical material that shows the additional tasks and costs associated with institution maintenance. On the other hand, with the State Secretary for Culture, we are reviewing the register of the " cultural institutions', as it currently contains partly incorrect data, it is not suitable for a clear definition of local minority self-governments that maintain the cultural institution. Our other need for unsubmitted amendments is our amendment to the regulatory financial, accounting, internal control and other tasks of municipal authorities for local minority self-governments. However, on the one hand, we have already received from the Ministry of Interior a full data file on local ethnic authorities, municipalities with a joint office and self-employed offices, which, based on our first investigations, is suitable for a comprehensive, comprehensive analysis of this area, to examine it fully, and even to draw up alternative proposals for a reassuring solution. On the other hand, we will also draw up a detailed, detailed document on the work to be carried out by the local government offices for the hnös and their actual costs, as required by the law. The amended proposals will be discussed with everyone and will be tabled as an amendment at the first possible opportunity. To do this, I will ask for the assistance and assistance of all those involved. Dear House, On 7 July 1993, 29 years and four days ago, the Hungarian Parliament adopted LXXVII of 1993 on the rights of national and ethnic minorities. Act on the basis of which the first municipal minority self-government elections took place on 11 December 1994. I hope that the problems listed above can be solved as soon as possible with the effective support of the government and the Hungarian Parliament and the 30-year existence of the minority, now a minority self-government system, will be celebrated in a secure, stable Hungary next year. In this hope and closing my speech, allow me to indicate that the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities is the T/152. It supports the adoption of the draft law on Hungary's central budget for 2023. Thank you for listening. Danke für Ihre Aufmerksamkeit! [[Applause.]]
u2022-07-11-279	Dear Parliament, The speeches are now taking place in the time frame on the agenda, with no two-minute comments during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Nyitrai, representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2022-07-11-280	Madam President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for the word and opportunity. In a difficult time and difficult environment, our country's budget for the following year has been prepared. The corona virus epidemic is still not completely over, there is a war going on next door, and the sanctions in Brussels are further strengthening the prices of war. There's war inflation in the world. We, the representatives of Fidesz-KDNP, say that the most important thing is to preserve Hungary's peace and security, to ensure the country's energy supply, and to ensure that the costs of war are not paid by Hungarian people, not by Hungarian families. Dear Parliament, In 2010, when we received the opportunity and responsibility of governance, we had an alliance with several social groups. For example, families with children. Before 2010, the left-wing governments of Gyurcsány-Bajna broke up the system of family support, and Viktor Orbán and Fidesz-KDNP said that the Hungarian family, the Hungarian child, was the key to the future survival of Hungarians, and that children should be encouraged and all support should be given to Hungarian families in relation to the possibilities. Dear Parliament, Another important social group with whom we have formed an alliance is the pensioners, our elderly compatriots. More than two million pensioners live in our country, their moral and material appreciation is constant, and we thank them. While in 2010 an average pension was 97 thousand forints, in January 2022 it increased to 163 thousand forints. The pensioners received more than twice a pension premium, and before the major holidays, they were always given the Erzsébet voucher from the Government of Hungary, and we also gave back the 13th month pension taken by the left. We have promised to protect the system of family support, to protect pensions, jobs and reductions. If there is a reduction in overhead costs and this has a serious budgetary impact, this must be said and stopped at this point, because if there were no electricity protection in Hungary, the price of electricity would be three times higher, the price of natural gas would be five and a half times higher today. At this point, remember the gas stop. In Hungary, petrol, the cheapest in Europe, is 480 HUF in these days. For 50 litres of gas, this saves a family 12,000 HUF for a motor vehicle. Dear Parliament, It was therefore necessary to draw up the budget in such a situation and put the draft budget on the table for the rapporteur. It is not easy, but somewhere it is, because if the government's priorities are clear, and they are clear, then even in such a difficult situation, you can find the main pillars of the budget, its main points of gravity. In this situation, it is a budget for public security and defence. For example, in 2023 we spend much more money on the security of Hungary, Hungary and Hungarian families. Security is the priority area of the budget. It is important that Hungary is able to protect its citizens, and this requires military and modern forces. Families will receive more money in 2023, Honourable Parliament, 450 billion forints more than this year, and three and a half times more than in 2010 than in the last budget of the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government. In 2023, the government spends more than 120 percent more on health than in 2010. Thank you, too, for the sacrifice of health workers. This budget is therefore a budget for public security and defence. I would ask my fellow Members to support this. Hungarian families pay the lowest cost in the European Union, and this must also be said, since we are talking about this budget, we are having a professional debate. The draft budget seeks to be fair, since these banks, insurance companies, wholesale chains, energy companies, telecommunications companies and airlines take this extra income away from companies who receive extra profits during the war period and protect the Hungarian country. [[21.10]] Dear Parliament, The next year's budget is also moving forward in a number of areas compared to this year, which is why I suggest that we adopt this budget in this difficult situation, since the rapporteur has clearly sought to promote areas of importance for the government and the two parties that make up the majority of the government, Fidesz and KDNP, such as protecting jobs, family protection and reducing costs, protecting and safeguarding their values, and moving forward in these areas more than this year's budget. Thank you so much for listening. [[Peter Benő Banai applauds.]]
u2022-07-11-281	The next speaker, which has been announced in writing, is President Novak, representative of Mi Hazank, I give the floor.
u2022-07-11-282	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Parliament, For the most important bill of the year, the 437 amendments to the budget received 6 minutes from the MiHazánk Movement. Of the 437 amendments, 437 were submitted by opposition representatives and none by pro-government representatives. They are the ones who complain to us in the hallway about how good it is for us oppositionists, because we can speak, for example, for the sake of our narrower Patriots, for the sake of the areas we consider important, we can lobby, make it a topic, and thanks to the thematicization, something can happen sooner or later. For example, I saw this in the last budget debate, which I was able to participate in in in 2016, before I resigned from my mandate, because although my proposal to redefine the largest church in the capital's most populous district was voted down, but it was not perhaps two months after János Lázár came forward in a government briefing and announced that the government was in favour of renovating the church of St. Imre in New Buda. So, we have seen such things, and if I am talking about such pro-government speeches in the corridor, let me say that they refer to the Minister of State responsible for public finances Péter Benő Banai, who is always in order here, so that he does not get hit by the tram, because then Hungary will not have a budget. Well, they're very loyal and very respectful, and I'm less respectful, because I think that even if it wasn't for God's sake that the tram would hit us, we'd still have a budget, because multinational companies seem to be able to write a budget. At least we find that this budget is almost in the pen, and it is very painful that, while talking about a system of national cooperation, none of the 437 opposition amendments to the budget have been supported. They even voted against my combined spelling correction, which, of course, is indisputable, as I justified the need for this combined amendment with an MTA link, but that it was rejected or not completely unread, as it was later submitted as one of the 12 government-supported amendments, which was finally accepted as their own, so to speak, as a Commission amendment. Secretary of State, why are they so small-time? And now you can spread your hand that this has been voted by the committee, but the fact is that all 437 have the saying that the government representative does not support it, so the government does not support it. At least they could say once that it doesn't reverse the entire budget, it's a good proposal, we support it, but the Fidesz majority voted it off. But they don't even do that. So I do not see here, unfortunately, the impartiality that I think we could expect in such a case, especially if they define themselves as a system of national cooperation. The Hungarian Movement has made a number of constructive proposals that would not have shaken the budget, so let me mention today, for example, that we have proposed the construction of a playground per highway at gas stations. Perhaps during the holidays, many feel the importance of this, since it would be advisable to build at least a family-friendly resting place per motorway, where they can stop for example for brunch. The public construction of playgrounds could also be applied for for for petrol stations, so that public funds could be complemented by market money. After all, fuel stations may also be interested in providing a more sophisticated environment for the typically dietary and shopping stops, thus providing several services. Why are they against building at least one playground per freeway at gas stations? Well, given the shortness of time, I cannot therefore explain our arguments for our dozens of amendments, but I think that our proposals, which do not quite rock such a budget, could be accepted, even if the Parliament is not expected to vote tomorrow on the three proposals that we could ask for in plenary because a faction has the opportunity to do so. One of these three choices for us is to transfer some HUF 19 billion to the national coronal virus factory to expand crèches and to develop crèches. I also think it is necessary here on the world demography day, if not to explain it, but at least to present it in headlines. As well as proposing a 25% increase in teachers' wages, and this will be voted on by the National Assembly tomorrow. It is likely that it will be voted out unread in the same way as all 437 amendments. However, we considered it necessary to transfer just 2 billion of government communication and consultation tasks from HUF 12 billion as a very modest proposal to prepare for the 2036 Olympics. It's symbolic to finally get something going. And in closing, let me mention a very modest proposal, the support of the 1956 Museum in Kiskunmajsa, since, in order to support the museum founded by Gergely Pongrátz, as a Member of Parliament from 2010 to years, we have always tabled a budget amendment, it has always been voted off. Finally, in 2015 the defence restored, but no operating aid was granted, it was only ensured by a cooperation agreement with the municipality of Kiskunmajsa, but after the municipality became a fidesz majority in 2019, the state support of the only museum of Hungary in 1956 was terminated. I would like to ask you to present at least as your own, if not this year, at least for next year's budget or the following, such a modest amendment proposal so that the state support of the country's only museum of 56 can be achieved. If the other amendments have been voted down, please consider one or two. Thank you very much.
u2022-07-11-283	Mr Zoltán Vajda, the speaker of the MSZP Group, is now next. Here you go.
u2022-07-11-284	Thank you very much for the floor. I would now like to express the position of the MSZP faction on the budget. The bill submitted by the Government on Hungary's central budget for 2023 is premature, but at least problematic and particularly opaque. This opinion is also shared by the Fiscal Council, and it is true that the Council expressed this much more nuancedly. The draft budget is not transparent, risky, hurrah-optimist. International analyses, last time the Secretary of State spoke about this, the Open Budget Survey, but I do not mind reading it, although I have been looking into it since then, and you are partly right, but since that is our opinion, let me also read that the Hungarian budget in the European Union is the least transparent, not only Slovakia or Romania has overtaken us, but also Serbia. Right now, we're pretty much on the same page as Tunisia. The risks are due to hurrayoptimism, because it is difficult to believe, not only for us, for Members, but also for the markets and for Hungarian families, that the annual inflation will be only 5 percent next year, and the euro-forint exchange rate will rise below 380, and the US dollar will fall to around 340. According to the Fiscal Council, a smaller constellation of wonders has to come together in the world in order to be realistic with a 4.1 percent increase in GDP. The Council also urged the government to reach an agreement with the European Commission, because Hungary needs EUR 40 billion for our country more than ever, and the risk of not doing so is not adequately anticipated by the bill. In addition, it can be seen from the document that the Ministry of Finance submitted the draft to the Council in a very conflicted form, because it was almost dozens of times missing detailed data, supporting and justifying individual figures. As far as the contents are concerned, it is clear that the government did not start saving on itself at all, as it announced at the launch of the new special taxes. To do this, it is worth considering a slightly larger perspective, i.e. where Fidesz took over government and where it would like to continue next year. In its analysis, it can be concluded that the state spends a lot more on itself, also devotes a lot more on economic functions, which is achieved primarily by cutting back on welfare functions. [[21.20]] Expenditure has also been cut back in all segments of welfare expenditure, as Hungary will spend less on education, health and pensions in proportion to GDP next year than it did in 2010. In summary, in addition to the brutal restrictions, the government submitted a budget of uncertainty to the Parliament: the budget of insecurity. The figures underlying the planning, such as the 5.2 percent inflation, the 377 HUF euro, are no longer believed by the governing parties. But it is clear that again in its proportions there will be less money for education, health and social expenditure, because the Orbán government is now taking it away from family members, young people and pensioners, which it favored from November last year to February. He collects a lot more taxes as prices increase. In the meantime, however, it is a fact that it distributes, distributes to its minions and to those who have many, and who are generously spared from the extra taxes. Lőrinc Mészáros gained 60 billion forints in one year. In view of this, the MSZP does not support the adoption of the draft law on the central budget for 2023. Thank you very much.
u2022-07-11-285	Congressman Zsolt Nyitrai, representative of Fidesz, came forward to speak. I give you the floor, please.
u2022-07-11-286	Madam President! Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I am sorry to ask you to speak again, but I must respond to the opinion of the representative of our country and the representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party on the budget. The colleague from our country said that this draft budget could have been put in the pen by a multinational company. Dear fellow Member, which multinational company do you mean? Bank, insurance, wholesale chain, energy company, telecommunications company or airline, who must contribute from the extra profit to the protection of Hungary's electricity and the protection of Hungary's country. I don't think Fidesz and KDNP, the governing parties, can be properly accused of multi-company friendship. Of course, our allies and cooperating partners, but it was always the left, the opposition parties may not be Mi Hazank, but the left has been quite clearly since the change of regime, when the question was whether to be public, or, say, to choose banks, multi-businesses or Brussels, then the left has always chosen multi-businesses, Brussels and banks against people. The Fidesz-KDNP, in addition to considering these companies and companies as a serious cooperative partner, is always on the side of the people, and I think that this current budget is also pointing in this direction. In Hungary, citizens pay the least for petrol in Europe. In Hungary, families pay the least in terms of overhead. I think that these are also measures and decisions that are not just for multi-enterprises, but for people, and not only in words, but also in terms of actions and measures. The representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party: he emphasized that there is inflation. Let us add that this inflation is war inflation [[Zoltán Varga: Orbáni!]] ; this is not only in Hungary, but there has been virtually global war inflation, the only antidote for which is the immediate peace talks, the truce and the subsequent peace negotiations. I see that only we are talking about this, only Viktor Orbán speaks about it in the European Union, because everyone else is talking about sanctions. We have already mentioned here, in the Hungarian Parliament, that these sanctions only make the damage to the war worse, so as we overcome war inflation, there is a need for a truce and subsequent peace talks, honourable Members. Thank you for your attention. [[Peter Benő Banai applauds.]]
u2022-07-11-287	A speech will be made by Congresswoman Éva Sebők, representative of Momentum. There you go. I'll give you the floor.
u2022-07-11-288	Thank you very much. Dear House, I would like to respond to what Zsolt Nitrai has to say. Please, and you are not the first pro-government representative I ask you to do this, and I ask you not to talk about a family-friendly state. Neither the budget nor the current situation is family-friendly. There is a simple reason for this: there is no such thing as family-friendly without being mother-friendly. The state in which the fourth obstetrician turns off the light in the country within two months, after hops, Mohácsi, and Szolnok, we can't talk about family friendship there. It's the first time we'll be able to talk about a state failure on our feet. [[Sic!]] And then I'm just talking about the closed obstetrics. The fact that after a long, long time, after all the stories we've seen, we've heard that you should know, if you dare to talk about family friendship, if you're talking about a family alliance, and it's incredibly impertinent that you're allowed to do that, the obstetric violence is still there, and you're not even willing to admit it. The budget that we have now shows that the situation will not improve in the next year, we cannot expect that the closed or savings-screwed obstetrics will re-open in substance. We cannot expect that there will be effective action or any action at all against obstetric violence. So I would very much ask you to hold back and never talk about family friendships or fraternity with families again, because it is hypocrisy, because it is despicable, and because Hungarian families spit in their eyes. Thank you very much. [[Zoltán Vajda applauds.]]
u2022-07-11-289	Statement by Mr Zoltán Vajda, MSZP. Here you go.
u2022-07-11-290	Thank you very much. I could say that I apologize for commenting again, but I would also like to comment on the comments of two colleagues. One would be a meaningful thing, the other would be a formal thing. To my colleague in Nitra: there is this expression of war inflation. He learned that, the Rogán-Habony works made it for you, and I hear they've been using this context for a week and a half. I'm just telling you why what you're saying isn't true. For two things, I'm trying to say it slowly so you can interpret it. One of the reasons why it is certainly impossible to blame war inflation if inflation started before the war, colleague. Thus, much before the outbreak of the war, inflation in Hungary began to increase, with which I deny it. The second statement, by which I deny the expression of your political lounge from Rogán-Habony works, is extremely simple. If, as a fact, we can say that the exchange rate of the forint is falling more than, let us say, the exchange rate of other regional money, and that the weakening of the forint is evident, if not one in one ratio, but clearly integrated into inflation, that is why it is not possible to talk only about war inflation. If you would have said that the war was partly contributing to loosen inflation, then I wouldn't have said anything about it, but you're saying war inflation, which means that if you had nothing to do with it, even though it started earlier than the war, this is one argument, and the other is that the forint is falling, while other EU funds are not falling, and it's integrated into inflation. The other colleague, whose comment I would like to respond very briefly to, is a colleague of the predecessor of Novak. I would be very surprised if my constituents had entrusted me or sent me to the Hungarian Parliament to protect the Fidesz government from the vehement attacks of Mi Hazan. I don't see so much vehement attacks from our country towards the government, but I'm sure that's not what you've been charged with. And it certainly doesn't mean that if the President of Novak criticizes the Secretary of State of Finance, I will protect him. Secretary of State defends himself, I'm sure I don't have to defend him, but this is just the example the colleague said, that in connection with a spelling error, the Secretary of State would have said that this was not supported by the government, right, which was the example, and I'm just saying that I was at the committee meeting because I was the one who led it down. We were able to speak separately about all the amendments whose representatives were present at the committee meeting. I didn't see a colleague of Mi Hazank, so there was a package of negotiations. If we had been deputized to attend our committee meeting, we would have been able to make a separate statement about the spelling error. So, I certainly have no obligation to defend Mr Secretary of State in any way, but to criticize him by saying that he is, in fact, not in a very good way, because what we think is very different, I would be surprised if we agreed on a lot of things, say, in terms of a budget, but at least that he would not express professional answers in the way he thought was right, that is certainly wrong. That's all I thought I'd tell you, and I'll leave the rest of the ten seconds for the House. Thank you very much.
u2022-07-11-291	Congressman Zsolt Nyitrai has asked to speak again, a representative of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2022-07-11-292	Madam President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I'm sorry to ask you to speak again, but I would like to respond briefly to the thoughts of the two colleagues before me. The Momentum representative says this budget is not family-friendly. I'm telling you here, in public in this country, that this draft budget is a family-friendly budget. And I would recommend to you that you turn back a little in time, or even talk to the Members of Parliament who are not sitting next to you right now, but with those with whom you started in an alliance with representatives of the Hungarian Socialist Party, DK, with the soldiers of Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Zoltán Vajda laughs.]] [[21.30]] Because I think they put together the worst budgets of all time, your allied partners. At the time, the family support system was also destroyed in Hungary, while now we can say that we can support families by HUF 450 billion more in 2023, so that in the following year we can support families by more than HUF 450 billion than this year. Compared to 2010, this increase and growth is 3.5 times higher than the last budget you have presented. For the past 12 years, it has been said that support for families has increased steadily, while in your time it has been steadily decreasing. These are facts, my honourable fellow Member. It also affected health care. I'm also telling you to take a look around there. In the draft budget of 2023, the Hungarian state supports healthcare by 120 percent more than in the period of your last budget in 2010, when healthcare was put in a very difficult position, and they even wanted to ask everyone for money, but in a social referendum, Hungarian citizens also expressed their views on this. As regards war inflation, it is true that my fellow Member is right in that there is war inflation not only in Hungary but also in the world and in the region. It should be said that if we look around the region and look at the extent of inflation, we have higher inflation in the neighbouring countries, and if we have a slightly wider outlook, this is higher than in Hungary all over the region. This does not comfort us, of course, but I think it is worth taking this into account when we make statements about war inflation. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2022-07-11-293	Congresswoman Eva Scars is next, Momentum. Here you go.
u2022-07-11-294	Thank you very much. I will not apologize for the second speech because I am here. Mr Nyitrai, the first thing I didn't have a budget in 2010 was I was 21 in 2010 and I joined Little Star on SIN, so please don't do that to me. I would ask you to examine why you do not like mothers, or what the Hungarian mothers have done to you, to explain why it is not important to you, and I have already asked Gabriella Selmeczi, why, when a birth is taking place, how many strangers reach into the vagina of a birthing woman, it is just random, because she thought that she was just touching it, or why it is not important for you to be completely unreasonably elbowed into the mother's belly in Hungarian maternity. Why is it not important for you to expand Hungarian mothers by hand in obstetrics? Why is it not important for you to threaten Hungarian mothers in obstetrics? Why is it not important for you that even the poorest girls still try to put together their circles of friends? Why is it not important for you that mothers have to travel 60 to 90 kilometers to give birth? Why do you think that cheap, nothing worth doing is an answer? Don't answer that to me. I don't know if you should go to a professional or find an old friend or friend who can talk you through what's causing you to have this fix. All I ask is that you do not take this out on Hungarian mothers. Thank you very much.
u2022-07-11-295	Congressman Zoltán Vajda, please, for six seconds.
u2022-07-11-296	In particular, I have six seconds, so I tell my colleague Nyitrai that if he insists on war inflation, we can call it the Hungarian forint price falling due to Orbán, or the Hungarian forint ruined by Fidesz, or something like that. If you use that term, I'll use this. Thank you so much for letting me tell you this.
u2022-07-11-297	I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Secretary of State Peter Benő Banai to answer. [[For signal:]] He says he wants to answer. You have 30 minutes for Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2022-07-11-298	Thank you very much for the floor, Madam President. Madam President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to sum up the budgetary debate over the last few weeks and to respond to what has been said this evening. To sum up what has been said over the last few weeks, with information about the prolonged Russian-Ukrainian war, I think we can conclude that the most important task is to preserve Hungary's peace and security, and to ensure the country's energy supply and to protect the cost reduction. Taking into account the potential, the government has taken into account the impact of war and sanctions, high energy prices, inflationary pressures, the slowdown of the European economy and the uncertainty of the world economy environment, including the budget of 2023 for public security and defence. It focuses on protecting the results achieved so far, preserving the safety of Hungarian families and keeping the economy of Hungary on the growth path. In today's debate, we have heard expressions as part of minority opinions that the bill before you shows a failed economic policy, is about a failing model, is about cuts in the budget in Orbán and withdraws money from families. I am very sorry that, despite the debates over the last few weeks, these statements have not been made, and we have not heard the factual support of these statements today. As for the failed economic policy model, let me give you three numbers. In recent years, in many ten years, about one million more jobs have been created. This is the first important number. The second important figure is that over the last nine years, since the growth rate in 2013, net average wages have increased by more than 8.2 percent, when average inflation was 2.1 percent, so I repeat, there has been an average net wage increase above 8 per cent compared to inflation slightly above 2 per cent. The third issue, which describes the economic policy that is reflected in next year's bill, is that every year since 2013, the expansion of the Hungarian economy has exceeded the average of the European Union. We are counting on this, and a number of institutions, independent of government, also expect this to be the case in 2023, i.e. the growth of the Hungarian economy could be greater than the EU average. Dear Parliament, As has just been said, allow me to say about the amendments that have been tabled this evening and which have been discussed in all the committees. In the context of the negotiation of the summarised amendment proposal, it is important to point out that the proposals supported by the government contain amendments that support the construction of a crisis-proof Hungarian economy, while not endangering either the intended deficit target or the reduction of public debt. The opposition amendments tabled to the budget have been reviewed one by one, as President Zoltán Vajda said. With regard to Mr President Novak's comment, I have to say in fact that I said in the minutes of the committee that the Member, or this proposer of the Hungarian Movement, was right when a spelling error was discovered. I have also said that I agree in substance with the amendment proposal, and we just wanted to make it easier for the honourable Parliament to work by saying yes, together with a number of other technical amendments, to a proposal supported by the Government, and we have not caused any confusion with the support of two proposals submitted for the same purpose. Overall, however, opposition amendment proposals would upset the budget by several thousand billion forints. It has also been said among the minority proposals that yes, there is a general tax increase proposal, including in corporate tax, as well as in personal income tax. We believe that, looking back over the long 30 years of Hungarian economic policy, these were the proposals that did not push the Hungarian economy forward, but pulled it back. [[21.40]] Please look at the statistics, I have mentioned since 2013, let us see whether the economic policy that we received from the left-wing benches in the opposition amendments between 2002 and 2010 has led to results or not. These opposition left-wing proposals represent a tax increase of HUF 3240 billion. This would indeed be an additional burden for Hungarian families, as opposed to what the government has proposed. Among these opposition proposals are the carbon tax, which would cost HUF 200 billion and the increase in corporate tax, which would increase the burden on businesses by more than HUF 2360 billion. Budget reserves would be reduced by HUF 1953 billion, which would cost more than one and a half times more than HUF 1230 billion. To mention a few examples: some of the opposition's amendments proposed to reduce investment in job creation, while not taking into account contractual obligations, or ignoring the existing public finances rules, so that the amount of reserve determined in accordance with legal regulations would be reduced or spent several times or, as I said, attempted to introduce new taxes and raise taxes. Multiple overspends would, as appropriate, upset the budgetary balance. Now that we are talking about war, stability, I think it is irresponsible to put forward proposals that would significantly increase the general government deficit and raise public debt. Let me tell you a few things. The motions, if they do not meet the debt reduction requirement laid down by the Fundamental Law and which the Fiscal Council considers to be available in the original draft, do indeed threaten that the entire draft budget law will not be adopted, i.e. expenditure increases must be compensated either by a reduction in expenditure on other lines or by an increase in revenue. This is also a matter of credibility, and amendments have been tabled without a source indication. These, as I said, would therefore increase the deficit, which would jeopardise the debt reduction mentioned and increase the economic vulnerability of our country. These aspects were also highlighted by the Fiscal Council. It is possible that the Council had some findings that had not yet been made in the draft submitted to it, and that we responded to them one by one to the Budget Council before the submission of the draft budget law, and I also draw the attention of President Zoltán Vajda to the fact that the Budget Council, as well as the State Audit Office, considered the draft budget law as a whole to be justified, credible and enforceable. The budget's security reserves have also been highlighted many times by the Fiscal Council. These reserves should be designed in accordance with the Public Finance Act and used to finance unavoidable processes. The amount of the reserve forecast, called "Extreme Government Measures" must not be lower than half the total amount of expenditure; the current reserve of HUF 170 billion corresponds to this obligation. For example, opposition amendment proposals would significantly reduce or eliminate this reserve. There have been amendments which have initiated a reduction in the amount of the public service contribution, although the appropriations in question are determined using the calculation method set out specifically in Annex 4 to the Media Act, so that if a lower amount than the appropriations were fixed, that would be contrary to the Media Act. Some of the amendments included a transfer of resources from priority investments, such as rail developments and Paks II investment. Rail development appropriation is intended to cover railway development projects for economic development and a project for the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line on the basis of a contractual obligation based on an international agreement announced by law, thus reducing or withdrawing it would result in an inability to achieve the original objectives. The amount allocated to Paks II also includes expenditure on investments in new nuclear power stations blocks, which means the completion of an international contract. The timing of the investment is based on the agreement between the two parties on the basis of the contract, and the reduction of budgetary coverage should not hinder the implementation of a project of energy importance. It has also been mentioned now how the Paks II project serves Hungary's energy efficiency, and how much it can be regarded as a project that is one-sided. When it comes to energy efficiency or reduction of CO2 emissions quotas, I think it should be mentioned that, thanks to the Paks II project, 17 million tonnes of CO2 emissions are avoided annually. And what is now the Russian exposure, let me say that many nuclear reactors in the United States operate with Russian nuclear fuel. As far as the Paks II project in Hungary is concerned, the reactor would be Russian, the turbine and the generator would be delivered by GE-Alstom in cooperation with the American-French consortium, and the control technology would be delivered from the French-German Framatome-Siemens consortium. So much for factual, unilateral Russian technology and Russian addiction. Among the opposition proposals to introduce new taxes and raise taxes, I would like to highlight the proposal to raise the key to corporate tax. According to tax theoretical literature, the biggest economic distorting effect is the tax on corporate profits. In general, profit taxes prevent productivity growth mainly by curbing investments, as returns on the investment in taxed income are again taxed against consumption taxes. I believe that the corporate tax system seen before 2010 is also responsible for the fact that the employment system was so low. Several tax systems analyses have shown that the two major factors contributing to economic growth, in terms of work and capital, were indeed distorted, resulting in low employment overall and economic growth that would not have been a catch-up for the core countries of the European Union. The corporate tax system and the new forms of tax available to small and medium-sized enterprises, for example, are designed to ensure that businesses dare to invest, dare to operate, and this tax system has been the result that has now resulted in a million more jobs and a sustained increase in wages compared to ten years ago. As regards what has been said, allow me to say what amendments the government has supported. In our opinion, the proposals supported by the government against opposition proposals encourage the continuation of economic growth while ensuring the necessary protection of public health and defence, and do not jeopardise the intended deficit target or the reduction of public debt or the fulfilment of obligations arising from legislation and contracts. These motions, as Mr Zsolt Nyitrai pointed out precisely, make it possible to secure surpluses in many areas, while reducing public debt, reducing deficit levels and maintaining economic growth. I cannot interpret from the minority comments that have just been made that the proposal before you would include municipal withdrawals. If I am talking about amendments, let me draw the attention of the Honourable Parliament that the amendment tabled by the Committee on Budgets not only eliminates technical spelling errors, possible misunderstandings, but, for example, provides local governments with additional resources worth about HUF 7 billion in public education, certain social child welfare tasks and children's meals. What I cannot understand is that from the opposition side, they encourage government and government representatives to provide Budapest with an additional source of solidarity in the capital. The reason why this is strange is that when it comes to the fact that in the name of solidarity, Budapest should make a payment, from which we finance the tasks of the less-favoured municipalities, the answer to the opposition benches is rejection. [[21.50]] Therefore, in addition to the fact that support from local authorities is increasing on the basis of the summarised amendment before you, I would like to point out that all municipalities should contribute to or not contribute to the financing of the expenditure of other municipalities on the basis of their own tax capacity. If someone wants to expand the financial scope of local authorities, then I think it is appropriate to support the economic policy of the last few years, because the main tax revenue of local authorities, business tax revenue, has increased significantly due to economic growth. In 2014 and 2019, the last year before Covid, the local government's business tax revenue increased by 50 percent, with Budapest's 60 percent. So if this economic policy was beneficial, its beneficiary, in my opinion, was, for example, Budapest on the basis of facts. Dear Parliament, To sum up, the draft budget law of 2023 and the government-supported amendments also reflect the fact that the government's value-based policy has been unchanged since 2010, i.e. building a work-based society, thus supporting the preservation of jobs and the creation of new ones, the priority remains high employment, the preservation of 1 million new jobs created compared to 2010 and the promotion of new jobs. Therefore, employment-related employers' and employees' tax levels remain low, and the State supports businesses' investments that create job creation and efficiency and higher domestic added value. In line with the expected performance of the economy, gross and net average earnings may increase by more than 10%. In the context of the bill, it has also been said that public sector workers' wages are not rising sufficiently. Let me draw the attention of the Honourable Parliament to those issues of the bill which factually demonstrate that average wages in the public sector increased more in 2021 than in the national economy as a whole. This is the case for this year as well. Let us not forget that there have been 10 percent and 20 percent wage increases in several areas, and let us not forget that next year, for example, doctors' wage increases will include areas in the public sector where wages are growing. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Of course, this wage increase must keep pace with the performance of the economy, the burden-bearing capacity of the budget, but I repeat, the same areas have been discussed in the debate this evening as teachers, nurses, doctors, social areas, where substantial wage increases have been made this year, and which will be maintained under war conditions in the next year's draft budget law. We intend to achieve Hungary's future economic positions by increasing performance, supporting investment, innovation and territorially balanced growth. Particular attention will be paid to strengthening families, respecting older people and supporting child rearing. Ms Éva Sebők's contribution, in which she said that the government and the parties of government should not dare to call their economic policies mother-friendly, allow me to argue with her findings. She said that there is hypocrisy in the government. It should be said without a formal government position, but let me draw attention to the fact that if the congresswoman considers it important to support families, a mother-friendly approach, she also considers a life-friendly approach to be important. The European Parliament adopted a document a few days ago stating that all EU Member States should support access to safe abortion and that health workers cannot refuse abortion for religious or conscientious reasons. Here, when the Member criticises family-friendly indicators, I would like to draw her attention to the friendliness of life, to the support of life, to the fact that this European Parliament initiative was supported by two MEPs. So I repeat, first of all, let us bear in mind the importance of life. As far as family support is concerned, it is our intention that all families who choose to have children should not encounter poverty, but increase their financial opportunities. There are a number of other tasks ahead of us in this regard, but I think that the high-GDP family support in Europe shows that the government is doing everything it can to ensure that the desired children are born. We are a long way from, many times said, from reaching a minimum fertility rate of 2.1, a reproductive number, but I repeat, for the individual decision whether or not a family chooses to have a child, we strive to provide financial support in a war environment, even next year. The basic values remain unchanged in 2023: support for families, home creation, payment of 13 months' pensions, job creation and additional funding for a number of ongoing investments. In all circumstances, whether the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic or the Russian-Ukrainian war, the government puts the interests of the Hungarian people first, as opposed to what was said that we would play from the scores of certain multinational companies. There are also such issues, but companies typically strongly refuse to do so. In this unstable environment, the aim is also to preserve the safety of Hungarian families and to make Hungary one of the winners of the new world economy era. If I said uncertainty, I have to agree factually that budget planning is more difficult in a war environment. The criticisms, whether economic growth or inflation, and the exchange rate, I can say that, yes, there are risks in the budget, in the current budget. I think that it can be a point for businesses to know what kind of tax environment they can expect, and the early budget can strengthen this sense of security. We know from the Hungarian economic history that the adoption of a late budget law, whether at the end of December, does not in itself guarantee that the budget numbers will be more robust. I repeat, we see from the Hungarian economic history that the Parliament adopted a number of budgets, which were adopted at the end of December and which were found to be completely unfounded, and we see spring budgets from recent years that have stood the test of time in terms of the main economic policy goals. For the challenges ahead and for the risks we face, the proposal for a budget law, I trust that it contains sufficient reserves. Dear House, In view of this, I would like to ask you to support the overall amending proposal for the budget and then to support the draft budget law for 2023. I would like to thank you for the work you have done in recent weeks, for highlighting with your support and criticism the points that respond to the economic policy challenges, the points where the government still has a role to play. I hope that this bill will be adopted by the Parliament. I hope that perhaps the debate over the last few weeks has convinced some opposition representatives that it is worth supporting this budget, and if there are opposition vote, then I think that it is worth having a dialogue that will allow us to support, where appropriate, amendments in the future, but in this respect, trust, I think, perhaps, on the basis of recent years, the government has also deserved it. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Zsolt Nitrai applauds.]]
u2022-07-11-299	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Péter Banai Benő. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, came forward first after the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-07-11-300	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, We've been through a long day, we've closed with the budget, and I'd like to go on somewhere else, because it's the budget that affects both Debrecent and all the municipalities, and unfortunately, Debrecen is once again the one that's been given a shady reputation for sad news. For Debrecen we read on the biggest news portals that Debrecen's last welfare lake, Lake Vekeri, has dried up. [[22.00]] A lot of people have probably read this news, and even the pictures have been quite shocking, the reality is that if someone goes there, it's a big bust. Under the torsos of the former piers, the bridge leading to the dry lake, the cracked salty soil indicates that there was a wave of water here, not so long ago. Today, the hot, dry summer wind will only pick up the dry powder in the former bed. We need to know who doesn't know about Debrecen and its surroundings, that Lake Vekeri was the last so-called welfare lake from the lakes around Debrecen, which died and dried up. In the eastern and south-eastern part of Debrecen, the so-called Fancsic lake system was destroyed years ago, and the so-called Macsi-Balcsi in the west, where the Debrecens could bathe in vast natural water, was closed, just as the Látókép Lakes were blocked from the public traffic in Debrecen. And, well, in Debrecen, the news is stubborn that these western lakes are in the hands of NER, and the presence of ordinary citizens in Debrecen stinks. Decades ago, Debrecen's leaders and politicians visited a romantic and new excursion center in the eastern part of the country, dreaming of Debrecen with lakes, hotels and shadowy promenades in the forests. Today, as I said before, only the heat and mosquitoes are its inhabitants and visitors to the dried-up beard of lakes. Of course, many who know the story of Debrecen can now say what I am talking about, because not only has it been accepted, but there has also been a priority government investment called the Civaqua programme, which would otherwise be destined to solve this current state of the state by leading the water of the Tisza to Debrecen. They could probably be right about this, but nothing is happening with this programme, apart from the sound of political boobs and government propaganda. This gives us the shocking conclusion, Debrecen, that at best, we can expect decades of preparation, if we can even count on it. In the meantime, of course, there is an increased rate of destruction and concreteisation of agricultural land and green land around the city, the Great Forest of Debrecen for centuries, including the tavern oaks, as there is a significant and drastic decline in groundwater in the area. Debrecent also strangles him near the health limit by constant concentration of particulate matter. The expansion of the stone and concrete surfaces to the detriment of green areas in the summer is an almost unbearable increase in temperature, so-called heat islands are formed in the city, which may have unfathomable consequences. Well, what do we, Debrecen? That, in all likelihood, he is now stealing the last moments and screwing up the course in Orbán, even here in Debrecen. However, if a person looks at any newspaper, any news about the Carpathian Basin or even the area of Debrecen, the Carpathian Basin is considered to be particularly at risk, where a decline in precipitation and an increasing average temperature are expected to result in rapid desertification, which is particularly bad for the Debrecen area, since Debrecen is located in a barn, and the natural waters, thanks to the Kleptocracy in Orbán, can avoid or avoid the city of Debrecen for many decades. Our lakes are gone, destroyed, and are now cementing the best land in the vicinity of Debrecen to install battery factories or car factories. This is not gonna end well. We Debrecen see it as a crime of the Orbán government, but it's actually the tragedy of Debrecen, and that's the biggest problem. Thank you so much for listening. [[Andrea Hegedüs and Éva Scarf applaud.]]
u2022-07-11-301	Thank you, Congressman Zoltán Varga. Andrea Hegedüs, representative of DK, also came forward after the agenda. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2022-07-11-302	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Most pensioners in Borsod have special lives. They don't have 14-15 tobacco stores, but they're simply pensioners who have worked a life for their children, grandchildren, families. They are luxury pensioners who drive a unique, special vehicle, not a yacht or helicopter, but what they drag on two wheels and can no longer fill them with food, vegetables, fruit. They must choose to bring home bread or medicine. For the past 12 years, you've been thinking about your own richness, and you've only been thinking about the campaign to give a little thought to this age group. They didn't think about them before. When you're constantly pointing back at time because of your 13th month pension, why didn't you take action because you had the opportunity to do so in 2010 and 2010? They waited 12 years. Why didn't they always give you a 13th month or even 14th month pension every year? Their selective memory is excellent, because you didn't vote for the 13th month's pension back then. Do you even know what it's like to save money in today's world? No. After all, when a former Fidesz deputy mayor of Miskolc, later his parliamentary and shameful home, said that he could surely live on 47,000 forints, he could surely live on 47,000 forints, yes, I suppose. How do you know that when you're throwing up even your disgraced politicians? But let's get back to today's world. A month off, but I'll give the midterm pension raises to the underage. The lords of the county shouldn't wait for this alms. Nearly 122 thousand old-age pensioners live in our county, and their average pension is barely worth 148 thousand forints. That's a hell of a pension. We'll give you the rest you deserve. You can go to the Adriatic or the French Riviera. You are now a luxurious luxurious licorice with curiosity french bread, and it is good to stay with the bread onion or the song of the movie Hyppolit, the butler, to be consumed with onions. Holiday? We're still farming the garden outside the apartment. Every square metre is divided by resourceful pensioners in Miskolc. In the small public gardens in front of the panel buildings there are paprika, tomato, onion and paprika beds lined up among the flowers. And if we look at how giving this government is, we're wrong. The Orbán austerity package is compensated by a total of HUF 42 thousand plus for average pensions in July, with a retrospective correction until January. What does that mean in real life? Last year, after 40 years of retirement, this is HUF 5200. And if we multiply it up, it's 30-32 thousand forints. Maybe if the pensioner takes a four-hour extra job, he can take a vacation at Lake Mályi, Lake Csorba or the Lake Snake. But maybe it's already a luxury. Their livelihoods are at stake for grandmothers and grandfathers. At such a rate, the familiar couple who so far worshipped fruit, though hard, gave up on it. A pound of peach is 1,800 forints. By the way, in a convenience store, I had an old retired lady standing in front of me, buying 10 ounces of chops, buying salami, and putting three rings back on at the last minute. Where do we live? The solution is to reduce the VAT on food to zero per cent. 8.9 percent increase is important for older people, but it is particularly important for those with higher pensions. In the case of the lowest pension, this is only a few thousand HUF monthly income. With inflation slowly reaching the moon, food prices reach 40 percent, pensions are cut off from reality. Therefore, the Democratic Coalition demands that the government grant a one-time grant of HUF 100,000 to pensioners due to inflation. It is necessary to see that prayer does not help the elderly here, even though 270 thousand poor Hungarian pensioners say the rosary several times a day, and crumbling to give us our daily bread today, and send us some fruit, vegetables, bread, my God, plus medicine. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Zoltán Varga applauds.]] [[22.10]]
u2022-07-11-303	Thank you, Congresswoman Andrea Hegedüs. Mr Éva Sebők, Member of the Momentum, also came forward after the agenda. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2022-07-11-304	Thank you very much. I left in the middle of my own speech a week ago, two weeks ago, after my speech addressed him, thinking that he would rather talk to our fellow Member Nacsa while he should have listened to me. I'm close to exodus right now. I would like to ask the Fidesz, the KDNP, our Hungary, in fact, to say that, in addition to the Dialogue, the representatives of all parties, to be terribly ashamed of themselves. The video will not show, which is now about this speech, but I am alone in the whole horseshoe, all alone, and no other party is currently represented here. Then I'll give you my speech, but that's about as much as you can be curious. First of all, I would like to mention the responsibility of the pro-government representatives, because they would have a dog duty to keep at least one on-call person listening to what I am about to say. Shame on you, but damn shame on you. Why did I ask for an opportunity to speak? I was in a carpool in 2018, when a fellow party came to me. He was preparing for a debate with our colleague Dóra Dúró and asked a little question about the Hungarian family support system. During the conversation, I said the following sentence, obviously in addition to many other things: I fear that in a few years the country will be full of CSOK-damaged people. All indications are that this terrible prophecy can come true in a very short time. In view of the fact that the penalty rate for CSOK is five times the base rate for the central bank, today it is possible to pay back nearly HUF 40 million for a 10-million CSOK. The reason for this is simple: the central bank base rate has increased dramatically in recent weeks, at present 7,75 per cent, while at the beginning of the year it was only 2.9 per cent, and around the CSOK it was only 1.2 per cent, and there was even a point at a time when 0.9 per cent. These parents, who have accepted the CSOK, but have not yet been born after a child, in most cases if their life is different, will have no choice as to the child's birth, no matter how it develops, as the penalty rate on the CSOK is so high that the overwhelming majority of Hungarian families would not have the chance to pay back, they will be trapped in an emergency situation. This is particularly dangerous in cases where the spouse becomes an abuser. Reimbursing the CSOK with a penalty rate is another thing that the abuser can use to blackmail the victim, and another obstacle that makes it impossible for the victim to leave the abuse situation. As a matter of fact, 40 million more obstacles. Because of the government's mistake, so-called support for families is now essentially a loan shark, increasing the vulnerability of victims of domestic violence. This form of family support poses a serious threat to families. I ask you, is the government planning to do something? In the Momentum's view, it would only require common sense and political intent to finally get a ceiling on our loan shark interest imposed by the state and to recreate it within the framework of common sense. It would also require common sense and political intent to finally make clear legislation that protects victims of domestic violence, because for them, the CSOK in its present form means nothing but that the government itself gives the butterfly to the abuser, the government itself helps the victim into a corner so that he doesn't have a chance to escape. I would like to emphasise once again that you should be ashamed of yourselves. Thank you very much.
u2022-07-11-305	Thank you, Congresswoman Éva Scarők. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you for your work, the Parliament will resume its meeting at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed. I wish you a restful good night.
