u2022-05-16-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear fellow Members, The 4th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of this meeting, Mr Lajos Szűcs and Mr Dezső Szűcs. Welcome to all those who are monitoring our work. Dear Parliament, Péter Ungár, head of the LMP Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech. I give the floor to the leader of the group.
u2022-05-16-1	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Mr President, The National Assembly is going to elect a prime minister today. In such cases, it is usually customary for various opposition politicians to talk about the battle of the worlds, their role in it, their relationship with the world. I do not want to do so, because I think that after the fourth two thirds, we should be humbled to refrain from such great interpretations. [[Defiance.]] That is why I would like to talk about a slightly simpler issue, which I think is important for everyone, because it is linked to the classic task of the Parliament, which is to try to describe the problems that are in Hungary and to find a solution to these problems together. I've been in Debrecen, Nyíregyháza, Kaposvár, Veszprém and Miskolc for the last few weeks. Everywhere in these places, workers said that the wage increase that the government had given last year during the campaign period was taken away entirely by inflation. This is, in my opinion, a statement of fact, as a statement of fact for almost all Hungarian civil servants, that inflation has taken away the campaign-like wage increases you have given in the last year. In English, they earn worse, firefighters, policemen, teachers, workers in the social sector or health professionals can buy less than they could a year ago. The fact is that inflation is clearly not Viktor Orbán's fault, because it is a world phenomenon. Yet what we are talking about is that they are trying to find a solution to the fact that many Hungarian workers cannot buy enough because they have simply reduced their payable earnings over the past period. So far, it has been the case that the people working in the public sector may have been looking for the worst in Hungary, and this is the result of your policy, because let us recall that János Lázár will again be a minister, who said several times in 2014, 2015 that the number of public service workers should be reduced by 300 thousand, and who said that the state should basically save on public service workers. The result of a political choice is that today a trained trade worker in Hungary earns two and a half times as much as a beginner educator. This is a question of political value choice, and the problem here is not how much the trade worker makes, but the problem is that you do not really want to improve the wages of public service workers, civil servants. Inflation also has positive effects in terms of increasing revenue from the state. This state revenue, which increases after you always tell us how well the budget is and what a good economic growth situation it is, would allow you to at least make public wages more inflation-seeking, as is supposed to be an option for pensions. If civil servants' wages were inflation-seekers, at least it wouldn't be possible for an elderly worker, an educator or a firefighter to buy less things, effectively earning worse than he did a year ago. Those people, the 850 thousand Hungarians who receive their salaries according to the status of civil servants, they are the ones who make Hungary work every day, who teach children, protect us, who care for the least. The fact that they have such a wage situation is because you have had many other priorities over the past twelve years than the development of civil servants' wages. The fact is that there was a time when a lot of promises were made in a Hungarian parliamentary campaign where the 13th month's wage was formulated for civil servants. At present, the 12th month's wage was lost with 10 percent inflation. All in all, I would therefore like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State, not to say how much more you will earn nominally, not to say how much you have raised your wages, because in the value of your purchase, what it actually means for the employee, that does not matter. How could an elderly caregiver be able to buy less things now than a year ago? Please respond to this, and to the fact that civil servants' wages will be subject to inflation. Thank you very much.
u2022-05-16-2	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2022-05-16-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, If you look at it in all countries around the world, you can see it, and here in Europe, in particular, that prices are rising more than before, but at the same time they are rising in Hungary less than if there were no price stop measures taken by this government. Here we can talk about the reduction in the rent you have been constantly attacking, and from the point of view of the service providers, they said it was unsustainable. We can talk about the petrol stop, which brings Europe's lowest petrol price, in Hungarian, Hungarian people can buy the most petrol from the same amount of money, and if they were in any other European Union country, they could buy less petrol from the same amount, less diesel from the same amount. [[11.10]] We also have a hat for interest rates, a stop introduced, and a cap for basic food prices, a stop for basic food prices. This is why Hungary has a lower rate of financial deterioration than most Central European countries. This is due to the fact that in Hungary the EU average is about increased and the EU average is equal to the level of deterioration. If these steps hadn't been taken, which you said were Communist and non-market-friendly, and the market would set the prices, they said that people should be forced to pay market rent, because it's only the right decision, and you've heard the election campaign in smaller and larger meetings, well, if they weren't, then obviously, there would be a 4-5 percent increase in the rate of money degradation. So if your proposals had been implemented in Hungary, nurses, firefighters, doctors and everyone else, and commercial workers could have been less fueled or bought with their money, because more money would be taken away and the prices would be higher in the shops. So you came up with a recipe and you rejected a recipe on 3 April by the Hungarian electorate that would have made it difficult in recent years, and now, in particular, the lives of the people, honourable Member. So, I think, on your part, this is hardly credible. If we look at the fact that when the left was on the steering wheel, he was able to take tangible steps [[Peter Ungár intervenes.]] What you're saying here, what you're supposed to do and how you're supposed to do, you can say you couldn't get away with it, because, let alone you didn't add up when the country was in a difficult situation. In 2008 Hungary was in a very strong crisis, because after 2006, the Hungarian economy went downhill, there was an economic decline. And what was the Left's recipe for economic difficulties? You're telling me that you need to raise more wages. The government raised 20 percent, 21 percent, 36 percent, 10 percent, which group had just how much, among those listed, there was a wage increase for everyone. You said that there was a wage increase in each sector, which you listed, there was a wage increase everywhere. What did you do during the crisis on the left? It's a pay cut. Wages reducers come to Parliament and say that it is true that in times of crisis, the left is reduced by wages, but why the government only raises 10, 20, 21 and 38 percent of wages, so why doesn't it raise more wages? Those who say that he is not market-friendly, so any price-stop can be taken away, say how high prices are. Honourable Congressman, You represent the policy in action, in the billings, in the polls, which eliminates the pricestops and reduces wages. Here is the left in this Chamber. In a roll call, he reduced wages to doctors, nurses, policemen, firefighters and anyone else who worked in the public sector, whom you listed, he referred to the 700,000 people, and he even reduced his pension to two and a half million pensioners during the crisis. That is why Zsuzsa Ferge, their own domestic sociologist, told you that there has not been a country in Europe that has not crossed a straw to help the victims of the crisis. This government has been dealing with the crisis almost continuously since 2010, with the economic crisis inherited from the left, followed by the migration crisis, the Crown Virus crisis and now the release of energy prices and the crisis in Europe due to war. In such cases, we should join forces, honourable Member, and, for example, in the European Union, to take a common position so as not to make the situation of Hungarian citizens any more difficult, not to impose sanctions that would make the situation of these people to whom you have referred even more difficult. Compared to this, you are not helping the government, and you are not defending these very hard struggles of the government in Brussels, but you are going out, trying to spread false news about Hungary, betraying, reporting, and not joining forces in the crisis, when people have made it clear what the direction of the country should be, they will not learn from this, although I have listened to you in the Arena, as if you had learned different things from what the voters have told the left. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] So they do not join forces and do not help us protect Hungarian people, but serve their Western allied parties, they represent a position that would make everyday life of Hungarian people more difficult because of the sanctions in Brussels. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2022-05-16-4	Imre Jámbor, representative of the Dialogue, also applied for a speech before the agenda. I give you the floor.
u2022-05-16-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, For me, every day as a congressman, it's about what I can bring home to the yoga towners and the Franciscans, and I have to admit, so far, it's got a maximum of a kilo of serialization from this House, a five-pound ring, and a hint of conspiracy theory. I think your constituents expect more than that. Today we will vote on the Prime Minister in this House. But the thing is, I don't think we're gonna hear anything about what we're gonna do with the housing crisis, what we're gonna do with the chicken-far-back world of the livelihood crisis, what we're gonna do with the food crisis. On 3 April, I won in a district in Budapest, a place where there are both fashionable cafes, decent pubs and endless poverty. Yes, I can see the cuts, the refunds, the wage increases, the pension increases during the year, but at the other end of the story, I see the four thousand small pensioners who live in my constituency from less than 100 thousand forints, and I meet the workers whose salaries are being devalued, and every day a man who asks if he can get an apartment. My fellow members of the Government! While you are in the process of triumph today, there is a housing crisis in Hungary, a livelihood crisis, and a food crisis is starting to hit. Today I would like to hear how the food crisis is solved, how the large estate system of oligarchs is eliminated, how they agree with the EU for a normal Hungarian agriculture, how they create a small estate system, how they organize it into a community, and how they ensure that this system is maintained in the climate disaster, because that is what they should do. Today I would like to hear how twenty thousand apartments are built every year in Hungary, how the harmful effects of market players are broken down in rent and property prices, how the panel and gang house renovation programme is launched, and developments focused on renewables, which reduce the country's dependence on energy, how they transform the reduction of the rent so that small consumers do not go bankrupt, but we, together, do not reduce the 60pusta fork of the Prime Minister's family because that would be their job. Today I would like to hear how the Hungarian economy can transform so that it does not depend on the centre, the German economy, at every moment. What do we even think about how to create an independent, strong Hungarian economy, not dependent on the state and its benefits, beyond the long-term unviable oligarch world? [[11.20]] How do you intend to support grassroots forms of community cooperatives, from the service sector to agriculture and industry? 'Cause that's what they're supposed to do. Your economic policy is based on lower salaries than the region, cutting workers' rights and injecting money into international capital. The crises of capitalism and climate crisis, the crisis of migration, the pandemic, the war, the lack of chips, the fragmentation of different supply chains will follow each other and will follow each other more quickly. In this situation, due to your policy, big capital will have to pay more and more money, reduce workers' rights and keep salaries lower and lower compared to other countries in the region. The effective corporate tax pay of large companies at home is closer to zero than the personal income tax paid by ordinary people, and they give many times a year to support large companies than the governments before 2010. This is a long-term failure for the country, even if they can recreate their own political victory with their incredible power. In January, more than 200,000 of our fellow citizens signed a referendum on two issues: Student City and unemployment benefits, housing crisis and state support for those in distress, on safety of life. On these issues, we have the majority here on the opposition side. In such a three-way crisis, in the crisis of livelihoods, housing and food, I ask you to move away from the promotion of capital, from the sale of the Hungarian workforce to an economic policy where the structure of the economy is crisis-resistant and can also address the issues arising from the crisis. I'm asking you not to play tricks. Either vote in favour of our legislative and decision proposals, support the construction of Student City and help those in distress, solve the two issues of the referendum, and save the cost of it, or write out these two referendums, and join the campaign, defend their economic policy instead of serialization, ringing, propaganda, and convince me that this policy can protect the country. I hope, at the end of today, I can bring home concrete promises, arguments, anything to Józsefváros and Ferencváros, which gives people hope in such a crisis. Thank you for listening, and I look forward to your response, which goes beyond the Soros-Gyurcsány-Communist saying nothing.
u2022-05-16-6	Mr. Balázs Orbán has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-05-16-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I have followed your speech with great interest, and in recent years I have also followed your work as a public writer. I think it is a very interesting experiment to see the capitalism-critical neomarxist approach that you are taking, and in your speech you wanted to speak to the public of the country around this line of thought. But one thing I've never seen in my life is that neomarxists and capitalist critics would be on the list of neoliberals and economic capitalists in Parliament. I've never seen anything like it. If I go to France, I tell my fellow Members, who think very much of you, that there is also an approach in Hungary that really focuses on the livelihoods and economic difficulties of the small earners, there are such political forces all over the Western world, this is a well-known methodology, but the fact that they are invited to the list of neoliberal capital, they start on that list, they enter into Parliament on that list, and they enter into that federal system... [[Dr. Tamás Mellar:]] I'm sorry, I understand that Mr. Congressman is also a member of the Group, and in this sense he shares the idea of cooperation between the Group and the opposition. So I've never seen anything like it. The fact is, honourable Member, that you draw attention to the fact that in Hungary there are small earners, small pensioners, there are people who have a problem with living on a daily basis, and you are proposing how we can help these people, well, this is a good and welcome thing. The only thing is that the federal system of which you are a member has said no to any related proposals in recent years, in recent months, in recent months and in recent days. Look at the measures we have taken over the last few months. We are fighting with the European Union as a whole, with all the institutions of Brussels, to maintain the reduction of the rent. I do not know that in Józsefváros he asked the voters what they thought about the 50-60 percent increase in energy prices in Amsterdam, Berlin and Paris in recent months. Would you like the American-Russian war on Ukraine's territory to pay 50-60 percent more? Would yoga town pensioners want that? I think they would say that they do not want to get involved in this war, and they do not want the Hungarians to pay the price of the war. Yet you are in a political alliance that does not support the Hungarian government's measures to say no to the expansion of the oil embargo, for example. How can you account for your conscience in this matter? He sits in a political alliance that says no to ab ovo, not to say no to maintaining a reduction in the cost. He is sitting in a political alliance that was here in the previous parliamentary term, and he kept saying no to the legislative amendments that were needed to raise the wages of the smallest earners, to the rise in the minimum wage, which you have rightly said. Of course, we should all work to ensure that the minimum wage is as high as possible in Hungary. I don't know, do you remember that the candidate for prime minister you were campaigning for a few months ago was talking about abolishing minimum wage and unnecessary. That's a classic libertarian view! And this man was your Prime Minister's candidate. And a few months ago, he stood up for the country's publicity, stood up for the various media platforms he had access to, stood up for the public forums, and said how well Hungary would be if the Prime Minister in Hungary were to have the person who said that the reduction in wages is unacceptable, who said that the minimum wage is not necessary, who said that these protectionist measures should not be maintained, but that we should do what we are told from Brussels and Washington. This is no way to make a Marxist revolution, and you're not gonna make it. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-16-8	László Toroczkai, the leader of the group of Mi Hazank. I give you the floor. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2022-05-16-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, the Parliament elects the Prime Minister of Hungary, and the Hungarian Movement will vote no. Our answer is very simple, why we are going to vote against Viktor Orbán's new prime minister of four years, simply because in the last 12 years we have seen the government's most false measures. It is also important to explain that, despite what we have been saying from the very first moment, since we were established, that any bill that is good for Hungary, good for Hungary, will be supported by this Parliamentary term, why do I say that we must vote against Viktor Orbán's Prime Minister. In the last 12 years, it has been extremely important for us and for the Hungarians, on issues of vital importance, such as the demographic crisis or the destruction of the national economy, which has been a process for more than 30 years, or even in the case of evictions, or at the moment in the case of the food crisis, I would be able to make a very long list of these vital issues. For example, here is the oil embargo, in which we can support the government if you say you are against the oil embargo, as it causes huge damage to Hungary and Hungary, but not only the oil embargo, but also the majority of the sanctions against Russia. This applies to all sectors. But while the government is now quite rightly opposed to the oil embargo, at the Versailles summit, Viktor Orbán did not speak out against the series of sanctions that he had launched at that time, but gave his support for this series of measures. In fact, perhaps in one of the most serious cases, the Hungarian Government, Viktor Orbán and Fidesz support the globalist intention of Ukraine to be admitted to the European Union quickly, very quickly, very quickly, out of the way and almost without conditions, which could in effect mean the end of the European Union. And not only because the European Union wants to hire a more corrupt country than Hungary, but also because it is clear that they will want the Member States of the Union to pay for the restoration and reconstruction of Ukraine, while, as I said earlier, the beneficiaries will be the same globalist circles and oligarchs. [[11.30]] So there were very, very many of these issues, on which the government not only took false measures, but also brought solutions such as a glass of water to be poured into the sea. We see now that the government's measure for the food crisis, the price stop, of course, can be a solution for a few weeks or a few months, but in the long term it will not be a solution at all. We resent that in the last 12 years the government should have talked about the need to rebuild the food industry, for example, and the national economy must be rebuilt, not only to increase the wealth of close-to-political nabs, but to focus on the most important sectors of the Hungarian national economy. It is not now time to talk about the restoration of the food industry, which was part of the plans of the Hungarian Movement from the very first moment, and it is also in our program, now that there is a war going on next door, but should have taken such measures in the last 12 years. Instead, we've been given a price stop for chicken tails or pig legs, which is obviously not a solution in the long run. Or, for example, summer is here, so soon the moratorium will expire: what about evictions? What about the Hungarians who lose their homes? What has the government done for them in the last 12 years? Because in the same way as in the price stop, let's say he's ordering a moratorium for a winter period, they're not solutions, they should have been faced with bankers in the long term, for example. The government has not done so in the last 12 years, and of course they can count on the Hungarian Movement even when they want to fight migration. Unfortunately, in recent years, solutions in this area have not been satisfactory either. Here, too, there were more pretend measures. I experience it every day, I get the news, and I can see from my own window that unfortunately the invasion didn't stop, the migrants get through the fence, and even if the Hungarian police escort these intruders back, the border guards will meet them again in a few hours. There is an example that if Boris Johnson had the courage to send back to Rwanda, to deport illegal migrants, then we expect about such measures from the Hungarian government, so do not pretend measures, but to take real measures, then they can count on us. Thank you. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-05-16-10	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2022-05-16-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Firstly, I would like to respond to the fact that the Prime Minister will not be voted on today. It is not surprising from that point of view that it is an opposition party, but I would like to argue strongly with the justification. You have said that the last 12 years have been, if I recall correctly, a series of pretense measures. Look, when this government started its work, it was necessary to rebuild a strong economy from ruins and restore principles. For example, the principle of making the most important decisions ourselves, we Hungarians, do not make decisions about us elsewhere. I refer here to the IMF or to the fact that the left would have transferred powers on an ongoing basis. It was also necessary to restore the principle that it is more worth living from work in Hungary than from aid. It was also necessary to restore the principle that our fellow Hungarians from abroad could count on the government's support. As far as the results are concerned, I don't suppose you've missed them, but if you're saying that it's a matter of pretense, let's mention a few things here on the ground of the facts. As far as family support is concerned, he referred here to the situation in Demog-Rafia. The Hungarian family support system has never been as diverse as it has been in these years. We continued to expand the family support system. When we started the job, there was nothing. They were foreign currency loans, and I wouldn't call that a family support system. If we look at the consequences of these measures, you know very well that the willingness to have children has improved in Hungary. [[Dóra Dúró: How much is fertility?]] These guys... [[An intervention from the ranks of our country: the Gypsies.]] These guys... [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Excuse me, Congressman, I have also listened to your speech.
u2022-05-16-12	Be careful, Congressmen, be careful.
u2022-05-16-13	The willingness to have children improved, of course everyone's own decision. It is every family's own decision when to have a child, when to start a family, but they can choose between several support options. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: We will be a country of 6 million.]] As far as jobs are concerned, we have reduced the unemployment rate from 12 percent; it is below 4 percent despite the war situation and the difficult epidemic years. Then: we defended the value of pensions, so much so that the 13th month pension that was taken before 2010 was returned to our elderly countrymen. We kept cutting taxes. I don't know what your party thinks exactly about the tax issue, that it will join the left in wanting progressive taxation, multi-key taxation, but one thing I can tell you is that taxes have been steadily reduced: income tax, for example, is a uniform 15 per cent and young people don't have to pay income tax in 25 years. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: How much of VAT came in last year? 5,000 billion?]] As far as national wealth is concerned, the volume of national wealth has increased by HUF 7000 billion under current governance. I agree with the intention of strengthening the strategic industries, the proportion of Hungarian ownership in that. We have taken very big steps here in the banking sector, in the strategic industries, and I could say energy, as well as in the media, and there is still room for further work to be done with regard to the food industry. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Big investment!]] If you think security is important, you can count on this and the next government. Not only are we protecting our borders, but we have also been able to split the number of crimes. I think it's a serious weapon in the area of Astotthalom, and the people there can sense it. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: By increasing the violations tenfold.]] With regard to the question of the embargo, we do not make it a secret that we do not support sanctions that hurt Hungary much more than they do the aggressor, and they hurt Europe much more. Well, energy prices have already increased significantly, according to Eurostat figures by more than 40 percent in a year, and this has fueled inflation, and it would be added a shovel to that by introducing the oil embargo under conditions where Hungary imports 64 percent of the oil from Russia. So not only would we have supply problems, but prices would also rise. You don't want that, you can't support that. This is why the Hungarian government is opposed to the sixth embargo package or sanction package. If you claim that the Hungarian Government has not raised its word against them, you have either been misinformed or you want to mislead the Hungarian public. Finally, in the absence of time, I would like to say one more thing: on the basis of the speeches made in the last few weeks, if I interpret it correctly, you are questioning the Fundamental Law, and if I have understood your words correctly, you do not consider the price stop measures to be appropriate. The fact is that this is exactly the kind of speech we have heard from left-wing parties in recent years, in recent months. It is not my place to advise you, but perhaps I can do one thing to prevent you from taking the Jobbik's path, because you saw very well what the result was. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-05-16-14	Although old representatives are sitting in the ranks of the new faction, let me ask the new faction, before or at the beginning of the session and the new term, not to go back to the way the old opposition has been treading on for 12 years. So I ask for discipline, if possible, everyone listen to each other quietly, the government side has also listened to your faction leader, please listen quietly to the other side from now on. I especially expect this from Madam Vice-President. Now, Imre Komjathi, representative of the MSZP. I give you the floor.
u2022-05-16-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I speak again in the Hungarian Parliament in the interest of the working Hungarian people. One of the government's strategic partners is planning to put 1600 Hungarian workers on the streets. It is quite terrible that this company had the opportunity to amend the collective agreement in February in such a way that it would be detrimental to workers: lower severance pay, the protection of married couples has ceased. I spoke for these Hungarian families last week, so the answer was a smokescreen. Moreover, the government's claim to negotiate was refuted by the trade union. Minister of State Sándor Bodó then responded to a call for a medium and wrote that the League Trade Unions and Employment Divisions are negotiating in the workplace. This is not the same because the government and trade unions are negotiating. In this situation, the government should take the side of working Hungarian people on a high level instead of capitalists. But where is Péter Szijjártó, who signed the strategic agreement? Where's the strategic partner at this hour? The strategic partnership agreements include almost everything but what is important: the protection of the interests of Hungarian workers, the guarantee of their safety and labour law. [[11.40]] Well, there'd be immediate help. The European Union has set up a European Globalisation Adjustment Fund with an annual budget of EUR 202 million, from which the government could claim funds, and precisely for these situations. This fund was specifically designed to allow governments to draw funds from it to help them find new jobs and even to set up their own business for redundant workers if at least 200 people are dismissed by a given undertaking. Dear Parliament, It could also be through the strategic partnership, and we should talk and take action. Once we support these companies with billions of forints, with Hungarian taxpayers' money, and we conclude a strategic agreement, then the government's expectations of strategic partner companies should be included in the agreement, as well as guarantees for the protection of employees by companies, guarantees protecting the interests of Hungarian workers, and not guarantees for domestic and international capital banks and protecting them. At Tungsram, the ITM should not be helping the redundant workers according to the structure so far, but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because in 2019 Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, signed a corporate strategic agreement laying down the way and conditions for cooperation and the establishment of a working group for regular meetings. Well, I'm asking how often this task force can meet if they didn't know there was such a serious problem and they couldn't act immediately. It was already known in February that Tungsram was going to have redundancies and did not take action. Deputy Mayor Kiss Ambrus announced that out of the 1600 workers dismissed from Tungsram, nearly a thousand people could be employed immediately in the capital. In Nagykanizsán, Zalaegerszeg and Hajdúböszörmény, however, there will be very big problems with dismissal, because people will find it difficult to find employment, for example, because 700 workers will be sent to Nagykanizsán with an average age of over 50, many of whom are still disadvantaged in the labour market. Among those working at the Hajdúböszörmény site are well-trained professionals, but they have many, mostly female employees who work without qualifications. They'll have the hardest position. The left will do everything in Nagykanizsa, Hajdúböszörmény and Újpesten to help hundreds of people fired by the government partner. Dear Ministers and State Secretarys, There's a lot of you. You have already turned to the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, have you not turned to them for the benefit of Hungarian workers? When will the strategic agreements so far be amended to include guarantees of safety and labour law for the working Hungarian people? When will the interests of Hungarian workers finally be protected instead of the interests of Hungarian and international capital, capitalists? Thank you very much for the floor.
u2022-05-16-16	I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Bodó.
u2022-05-16-17	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the floor. Well, although Congressman is still beginning his term in Parliament, he does not seem to have had time to study what his fellow parties have done in the past, when there has been a crisis in the labour market, so he is quite apostately accusing the government and my colleagues in the field of employment policy that I should reject here. Remember, during the corona virus epidemic, what government measures were taken. I believe that you did this, and, well, you have to admit that numbers are stubborn things, and even you have to face it, that this economic protection action plan has been able to help 1 million 666 thousand workers to a lesser or greater extent, in one form or another. This has its results: domestic unemployment is one of the lowest in Europe, and I have to say that these spectacular results will not be covered by a company's business policy, the problems within the company, however much you want this unfortunate situation that has emerged there, covering the entire Hungarian labour market. This is not the case, but of course we are fully helping, and I can confirm that to the employees of Tungsram right now, because as much as you refer to some kind of press organ, I must tell you that the employees of the employment policy departments, as previously, if necessary, in cooperation with the company in question, are assisting workers on the spot, let this be information, let this be mediation. Corporate contact colleagues are also there, but I ask you not to ask that this situation be resolved in one day, because in the labour market this cannot be resolved in one day. Neither is it because, in the first step, these workers have in their hands an information on when and how these jobs are going to disappear, and this is being named by the end of this year. Each location is named for what period of work will be completed, and what is the legal order of this, what payment arrangements will be made for these employments to be closed, and it is there at the same time, and I can now tell you, for example, a specific date for the Hajdúböszörményi plant, that the Chamber of Commerce and Industry will hold a forum in Debrecen, in cooperation with its member organisations, in order to channel these workers there to companies active in the region. So what you are saying is that only in Budapest, that is actually not true, because, to my knowledge, there has not been a group decommissioning intention in Budapest, only in the case of rural sites. Of course, this is a complex and long professional debate that takes place at this company. Indeed, a very long-running company has produced very high values, but we also have to face the fact that this market is changing significantly. The challenges of the market need to be addressed, reacted, adapted, and it can be seen that the company may have been in a bit of a phase delay here. In order to ensure that this does not happen in other places or perhaps in the future period of the company, who can carry this production forward, it should be possible to avoid this, to make the activity more efficient, to make the workers more prepared, and to present and recommend the programme that the Government of Hungary is running in order to help even when there is no problem, that is to say, to retrain and prepare the workers for a potentially unexpected crisis, that is now essential. Maybe this wasn't what the labour market was famous for all over the world, because I was told that I had learned a profession, and that I would live with it for the rest of my life, well, now we see so much changes in the world in the labour market that there is a small chance of that, so training and re-training are the most important two moments. There will be two tasks in the labour market over the next period, and obviously we need to prepare for this, in addition to concrete assistance, specific management. That's how the labour market is now. Of course, the Government of Hungary cares about each employee. Otherwise, the number of registered job seekers is constantly decreasing. I know that this does not exactly comfort these workers in this situation, but since we are thinking in a large system, I believe that we can help these workers with the help of the employees of the employment departments, with the help of the competent professionals. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-05-16-18	I now give the floor to Momentum's representative, Endre Tóth.
u2022-05-16-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, So the framework announcement has been made, and we already see the Prime Minister's team, so it is also certain that the Minister of Education will not run out this year either, and as a football lover, Orbán would obviously know that a goal cannot be scored from the bleachers. In education, we would have to score a lot of goals to reverse this 12-year-old losing match. But why did the Prime Minister turn his back on education again? Why didn't you hear the teachers' request for the independent Ministry of Education? Why did you entrust the fate of education to a former chief of police after a pastor and a retired oncologist? However, he said otherwise earlier: the future of Hungary will be determined by the number of people who have been educated, because we do not have raw materials and energy sources, so we can only hope for knowledge, Viktor Orbán said very correctly in 2008. But unfortunately, the big words were not followed, and we know from the Prime Minister himself that we do not have to listen to what he says, we have to pay attention to one thing he does. [[11.50]] Let the action and the numbers speak. Since 2010, all the important indicators of Hungarian education have deteriorated, so no more educated people have become, and even the number of young Hungarians leaving school has increased significantly. As Zoltán Pokorni, your politician, has said, tens of thousands of children per year will be in the pool every 16 years. In Hungary, the number of candidates for higher education has fallen in an unprecedented way, with 40,000 fewer students applying to university this year than 12 years ago. It is no wonder that today there are 20 percent more young graduates in Slovakia than in Hungary, even though 12 years ago we were ahead of them. The family background in our country weighs on study results as a steel harness. 71 percent of the richest third students, only 11 percent of the poorest students, go to college. So the situation is critical, but the future seems even more gloomy. 12,000 teachers are missing from the Hungarian education system, and the number of missing professionals is increasing by thousands every year. This year, 22 students applied to be physics teachers and 25 chemistry teachers throughout the country. They hear it well, 22 and 25, while nearly five times as many teachers retire in these majors. It's not an exaggeration, it's a hard reality, ladies and gentlemen. Slowly, young Hungarian educators must be declared highly protected, because in a few years they can disappear completely from the planet. But who is surprised when a beginner teacher's salary is barely worth 200,000 forints? Who is surprised when we have the highest number of hours required in Europe? Who would want to take a lot of responsibility and a lot of work for humiliating wages? Recently, a young educator described Hungarian obsession perfectly in an open letter. He puts it this way: I'll tell you what it's like to live as a career teacher in Hungary today: my hair dryer broke over a month ago, but I can't buy a new one. I live almost exclusively on empty noodles and rice, because I can't afford anything else, no matter how much I save. There's no social safety net under me. Even though I work my heart and soul in it, I'm on the edge of homelessness. In the shops that were 500 forints this time last year, that's 700. From 2022, almost everyone received a 20% increase from the government, except the teachers, we received a 10% increase. Why is my job as a high school teacher so low? My fellow members of the Government, you have been on the government for 12 years. The students who are now graduating spent their entire school careers under your guidance. This is a great responsibility, thus influencing human fates and shaping the future of Hungary. I ask you now to comply with this increased responsibility, and now promise me three basic things in front of the Parliament to avoid the complete collapse of the education system in the coming years. 1. End the humiliating pay of teachers and increase their salaries by at least 50 percent and ensure that they are of a minimum wage. 2. Ease the burden of teachers and reduce European record-breaking hours! 3. Give the teachers back the choice of free textbooks. I ask you to give me an honest response to these three calls that I have just made, instead of party politics and the fact-denial success propaganda. Thank you for your answer.
u2022-05-16-20	I give the floor to Secretary Bence Rétvári.
u2022-05-16-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I don't know, that was your first speech, but in fact, many of us have been waiting for you, honourable Member, to refer back to an earlier sentence you made during the epidemic for apologizing in your first speech to Parliament. He said: "You know, this epidemic and the crisis that is on the way, and this is a great opportunity to reduce Fidesz. - Mr President, here in Parliament, we have a very high responsibility for our words, what we say, which can be called to account for later, both for us and for you. There were few politicians in Hungary who did not think about the epidemic, the possibility of poverty, which we have managed to avoid in large part, well, this is a great opportunity to stop the Fidesz from seeing politics, nothing but politics, not human fates, not fear of disease, serious health damage, but that this is a political opportunity for the Hungarian left and Momentum to reduce the Fidesz and to take power. So harshly, so slick, so inhumanly, we could hear few sentences during the plague, because everyone was talking about helping, and we needed to join forces. You were talking about how a generation grows up in schools. I think it doesn't matter if someone sees their politicians take people to a mass hospital because of an unknown illness, then politicians keep saying that this is how we're going to overthrow the government, and that's what we're going to build our policy on. Honourable Member, we are still waiting for this apology from you. At the same time, the Momentum may also give us clearer moments. They said the joke party didn't make it to Parliament, so maybe the Momentum is here after all. You have solved one of the issues of education, yet you have made Hungary a country of ten million graduates when you said that you do not need a degree to be a graduate. So, in your eyes, every Hungarian person who has a diploma is a graduate because of a person who doesn't have a degree, and that's why. If you all have a degree, regardless of your degree, although Bangóné might have a negative opinion, here from the earlier lines of the MSZP, on this issue, well, if everyone is a graduate, then there are ten million graduates here in Hungary if we start from the Momentum fraction. But there's a lot of conflicting statements from you, which is why we can say a couple of jokes, because they say everything and the opposite of everything, whatever they think of, in two weeks, something else. The Momentum provides an alternative to the insufferable opposition. And then he joins forces with the insufferable opposition; it's a quote from András Fekete-Győr. What is Ferenc Gyurcsány doing in politics? You could really get out of public life, they'll say, and then they'll sign an alliance with him. People need a clear, tangible alternative, not a sloppy mix. Then they go into a list, an election alliance where, according to the leader of their alliance, the Prime Minister's candidate, everyone from the Communists to the fascists can be found, while your president says shortly before then that not such a mix is needed, but a clear alternative. In fact, you have even said that Momentum would spit on you if you went on a coalition with Jobbik and MSZP, then you took a coalition with Jobbik and MSZP. What is the weight of your words? What didn't they say and what didn't they say? Can you be taken seriously? Is there any serious part to take into account when you say, Tamás Soproni, that we don't want to lump ourselves in, and then Ferenc Gyurcsány laughs and tells you in your face that everyone should be Gyurcsány and more Gyurcsány and everyone should want to be Gyurcsány? Or can't they even decide whether to come to Parliament or not? They're waiting behind the curtain for us to come in a little bit, we're going out a little bit, because obviously we need the pay, we need the party support, we need a lot of factions to get less support than before, but they can't even decide that. The issue of education is indeed a serious issue, and I agree with that. In the long term, it is possible for a generation to really determine what knowledge to acquire, but you, who cannot even decide whether they are outside or inside, to spend the opening session in the hallway or in the Chamber, cannot be counted upon. However, a lot of people were terrified of what you said in the election campaign about education about what you would do if you came to power. The worst memories of SZDSZ were found: they would eliminate textbooks [[An uproar in the ranks of the Momentum. Expansion, interruptions from the opposition benches.]] They would eliminate the provision of public textbooks, they would only produce a commercialized, educational material that could be bought for money, reprivatized in Hungarian, as their predecessors privatized the National Book Publisher, you would reprivatize the entire educational content production section, they would no longer define exactly what they were doing. And what did András Fekete-Győr say? We have an immense number of schools, and they have a very poor quality. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You continued there as your predecessors, privatizing and closing schools. Luckily, we managed to avoid that. And we'll be on it for the next few years. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. Szabolcs Szabó: Secretary of Funny State.]]
u2022-05-16-22	Now it's time for Daniel Z. Carpathian, representing Jobbik.
u2022-05-16-23	Mr President, Dear House, Today, the House decides on Hungary's Prime Minister, and I can promise you that I will chop you up enough in the coming years in relation to evictions, enforcement abuses, among others, there will be a lot of debate between us, but on such a special day it is worth considering the possibility of finding any common discourse space. Therefore, I am now addressing issues that are exclusively true of the fact that the government of Hungary has been promoting itself in these areas and reporting on perceived successes. Let's look at the numbers level behind these. If there will be courage in the Secretary of State, he will respond to them. The fact is that this government likes to talk about the protection of families, and in the midst of the huge protection of families, Europe's highest VAT rate as a tax on the poor has been implemented here, with a VAT rate of 27 per cent. [[12.00]] They're doing all this in the middle of a food price explosion, by the way. The shame of the world is that this is happening in a classic agricultural country, and it is also rather shameful that when you go into a business centre, you typically find very little Hungarian food and a lot of foreigners. I am a great hunter of Hungarian products, and it is very difficult to find them many times in the market, because the fact is that you are pursuing a failed economic policy, and this is also the result. But the problem is not only that there is hardly any Hungarian product; it is also a huge problem that Hungarian forints, which you deliberately weakened, continue to cost everything, not only what they bring in from abroad, but also the domestic product that they process with a foreign machine or foreign fertilizer. Your politics cost everything. In the meantime, we see that you're the ones who make, make, over 5,000 billion forints of VAT only a year. And then they talk about family protection, while one of the largest budget revenues is realised from the Hungarian families' contributions. Therefore, we say that the VAT content of all basic foods should be reduced to zero percent. [[James Peter: That's right.]] Peter James gave a more detailed statement on this, and let us say that, yes, you are timid, you do not dare to respond to this suggestion. We have come to the point where the European Union has opened the gates to zero percent VAT. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches.]] Who's the one who's silent? The Government of Hungary is silent, and it is really possible to support families here. Mr. Secretary. I know what we can expect from you. But let's take another field, which is supposed to be their own orbit, so if they have a result, if they have a certificate, then they can respond to it in substance, at the level of numbers, their ratings are flying off me, and I'm really, really curious about his numbers. Mr. Secretary. How can it happen in Hungary that only 27 percent of the VAT paid for child protection and childcare articles each month, my dear friends, takes more than the same family receives in the form of a family allowance for the child. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Shame!]] How is it that a year or two ago this indicator may have turned, and you tax these families more than you receive support under the right to raise your child. And you talk about family protection after twenty-one thousand evictions, fellow Members. We've brought hundreds of cases to you. I put in dozens of invitations and sent them to you. They weren't there once at 6:00 a.m. We were there with the goodies, then several representatives of several opposition parties, we tried to legal aid these families, you abandoned them! [[Bence Rétvári: Your own employees need legal aid!]] As we were surprised that we would have exempted our fellow countrymen from the bans on executives from 33 percent and 50 percent of the bans on the minimum wage; otherwise above it. We would've exempted the pensioners. You, the cruelest government in Europe, have not been a partner in this discharge in the hardest epidemics in years. We could also talk a lot about housing, as they often advertise themselves in this area, but the 175,000 rent price in Budapest is very rarely paralleled with the minimum wage. They also rarely talk about how the state support for housing savings has been abolished, and very little is said about the fact that they have had a period when so few homes have been built in Hungary that it would only replace the real estate stock every 500 years. But the most important key area is demography. Answer me, Secretary of State, that if we multiply the birth numbers of the first three months now, some 79 thousand live births will come out by the end of the year. If we multiply this and do a model calculation by the end of the century, we will live in a country of six million in scale. It may have been pointed at other governments before, but even during your first government, the number of living births fell below 100,000, and now it falls below 80,000. So you talk about the protection of families, but you tax them, you scratch them, and all sorts of statistics show that the goal of prosperity in the homeland would be in the young Hungarians, but its ability seems to be [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You took it from them. Respond with facts and numbers. [[A voice from the opposition benches: That's right! Applause in the opposition benches.]]
u2022-05-16-24	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor.
u2022-05-16-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, As far as tax reductions are concerned, the current government is the government of tax reductions, and we will continue to pursue this policy. If you look at how much the income tax was, when we started the job, you'll see that it was drastically reduced. If you look at the corporate tax, you'll see that you've dropped dramatically to 9 percent. The reason I'm bringing these two up separately is because the left you joined and you joined, in both taxes, you've been thinking about drastic increases. They wanted two-key income tax, and they would have raised corporate tax. Look at the budget changes that have been submitted. And you've joined this, and you've joined this left. The tax exemption for young people, when the left was governed, did not even occur to them, not even as a thought. This was the government that introduced it. As far as VAT is concerned, a number of VAT reductions have been made. You're asking for the facts, and you're asking me to bring you facts, so I'll bring you some. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Give me numbers.]] In 2014, there was already a vote on VAT reductions, Jobbik did not support it. In 2015, there was also a proposal to reduce VAT, Jobbik voted against. In 2017, there was also a proposal to reduce VAT, and Jobbik did not support it. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: It was in the budget! In the budget!]] There was also a vote on VAT reductions in 2017, and Jobbik did not support it. There was also a proposal for VAT reductions in 2019, and Jobbik did not support it. After that, you come here and demand a tax cut from the government. [[James Peter: And you do not support him.]] What I can tell you is that the government is still pursuing a policy of tax cuts, even if you do not give us any support. As far as the issue of home creation is concerned: if you care so much about the situation of foreign exchange lenders, then what are you doing on the left, let me ask you. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: After 20,000 evictions, do you have the nerve to say that?]] What are you doing together, on a list of people who couldn't expand any family support system, the existing one was also eliminated? What did they give you instead? Foreign currency lending, hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families are trapped in debt traps. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Mihály Varga made it possible. Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] Not us, but your new allies. It was this government that provided them with different support tools and could continue to count on our support. As for the moratorium, this was the government that declared an eviction moratorium. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: When will Völner return the money to the families?]] Support me, I'm asking you. There is one other matter I would like to discuss, and that is that the harassment scandal in Jobbik continues to continue, which, given the circumstances, is no wonder at all. As reported in the press, at a rural gathering, a candidate of Jobbik wanted to rape one of the party's coworkers. Given the exact circumstances here, in view of our own blood pressure and the dignity of this House, I do not want to go into detail. Since then, the victim has published an open letter describing serious matters, including the fact that no one has apologized to him. And since the scandal started, he's been getting threatening messages. And when the party president is asked about all of this, he's gonna push it all away: what am I, a detective authority? That's what he said. And I'm supposed to say I'm condemning all kinds of violence? Well, it wouldn't be a bad start, that's the thing. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] And even the other day, he said that she had left the event in a good mood. The brains will stop! That's what he said. [[James Peter: There is nothing to stop you, my friend. Dr. Brenner Koloman: Watch the courthouse, my friend. Violation, defamation...]] So, for starters, they could say they're condemning all kinds of violence, they're judging this case, and then they can report that they were aware of the case and why they didn't act. And we're dealing with a very instructive and disappointing phenomenon. In recent years, many left-wing representatives have stood up for women's rights, women's protection, with monocles, smeared mouths, and, in many cases, loud words, and have done so in the case of international conventions and in specific cases. Now they're quiet. It's been another week, and they don't have a word! You can hear the cricket chirping, but not the condemning statements of the left. You're not gonna cover this up, are you? You don't want to show that when it comes to your own, you can cross every line, do you? The ball is now in your court. If you leave such a serious case without saying a word, you will not have a moral foundation in this case, in similar cases, or in any other matter, to hold anyone accountable. [[James Peter: Do you speak after Kaleta?! Dr. Brenner Koloman: The dignity of the Parliament... shame!]] And as for Jobbik, last week we said that they became DK's department. Now, after such a history, it may have been too soft, because it is more accurate to say that Ferenc Gyurcsány became a violent organization. After all these events, I'm sure [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We'll continue to accelerate Jobbik's disintegration, and the fall of the SZDSZ was compared to the baby's champagne party. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-05-16-26	I now give the floor to Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[12.10]]
u2022-05-16-27	The Prime Minister will take the oath today. [[Intervention from the ranks of Fidesz: Dear Parliament!]] I'd like to clear the relationship between the Democratic Coalition and the future government first. We consider the formation of a government to be illegal. [[There's a grumble from the ruling parties.]] Why? Because legality is not the appearance of legality, but of compliance with the will of the people laid down by law, and this government broke the will of the people when it invaded and destroyed the republic. The people did not give the government the authority to unconstitutionally seek the exclusive acquisition of state power, and that is what you are doing. Of course, you can say that, but you have won the elections. That's true. [[Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] But is it true that the election always expresses the real will of the people? [[István Hollik: If you win!]] No, because the choice is a true reflection of popular will when it is free and fair, i.e. when competing ideas and ideas reach voters on equal terms, who can form their opinions with a free, open debate and finally choose between competing programmes. But that is not the case in Hungary. Instead of the free flow of ideas and ideas, we are surrounded by manipulated, violent, lying publicity of power. [[The Owl says!]] If the public is manipulated, then there is no choice, and if there is no choice, then it does not express the real will of the people, and therefore the government of such an election is illegal. You may ask why we have taken over the mandate and why we are taking part in Parliament's work. Let me answer the question with one question first [[Bence Rétvári: Snakes snake!]] Is it okay if the people who defend their country use the weapon taken from the invaders in the fight against the invaders? We think it's okay. [[First of Novak: Shooting again, right?!]] And based on the same logic, we must use all legal means against your illegal, invading government. And Parliament is one of the areas of this struggle, without a doubt, not the most important terrain. But that's why we're here. Fidesz and his government are at war against our country. The specialty of this political, cultural and moral war is that it is not for some reason, but for itself, and that its cause, explanation and purpose must be sought within you. You are organizing this war because the threat of war deprives the nation of the ability to decide rationally, because the hatred of the enemy you offer creates unity where and when it is free to think and act independently, because under war conditions the real performance, consequence and hidden purpose of your governance becomes irrelevant. For all of this, we consider the government of Viktor Orbán not only illegal but also utterly immoral. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] You have ruined our country for the last 12 years. [[Németh Szilárd István: This is serious! Bence Rétvári: And you?]] Today there is anger, deception, and isolation, where a caring, smart, open, accepting national community can live their daily lives. Meanwhile, our country has become lonely in the world, and we can only count on the friendship of troubled politicians and troubled countries. You would replace the great nation with a small country, embarrassing Hungarian history and the present, yet the majority is here to triumph. Yes, because they do not see in their smug blindness, history holds something else for the country: a free, European life, a caring home, an inclusive, open nation. When we fight for this, we also fight against your illegal, immoral regime. You can count on us for that. [[Applause in the lines of DK, Momentum, Dialogue and MSZP.]]
u2022-05-16-28	Mr. Team Leader! The fact that I didn't interrupt you and I didn't take the floor from you doesn't fool you into thinking that you have the right to declare a democratically elected government illegal. I'll let you know at the beginning of the term that you have no right to do this. In particular, there is no moral basis after you deliberately put Hungary on the brink of civil war in 2006. You have committed every existing and unimaginable crime against this nation, against this country and against this democracy and against this rule of law. [[Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] I could give you personal examples of this, but I think I should spare this House. So I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this was your first and last speech in the Parliament, at least if I am in charge of the meeting, when you call Hungary's legally elected government illegal. If anyone else wants to respond to this after this, I'll give you the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. For signal:]] Mr. Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary.
u2022-05-16-29	Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, [[The representatives of DK shall withdraw from the Chamber. Bence Rétvári: The open ones are leaving!]] We are not surprised at the fact that a post-communist force does not accept the outcome of a democratic election. We are not surprised that the left will only accept the result of a democratic election if they win. And I would like to answer your question of violence: how does the ceiling not break? ! When he got shot at his own people, it was illegal. Since then, he has not apologized to the National Assembly, nor to the Hungarians, and most importantly, nor to the victims. I am pleased that, if only for a few minutes, after last week's meeting, you have entered Parliament, too, because we can say a few words about the lessons of the election. There are many lessons to be learned, one of which is without doubt that the left has completely renounced the possibility of renewal. In recent months, practically everyone has signed to Ferenc Gyurcsány and given up their independence, and that is true of everyone from Jobbik to Momentum. There was also the consequence of this self-disposal: DK gave the most candidates, and even after the election DK will be the leader in the left-wing power of the opposition. Ferenc Gyurcsány announced the good old direction after the election: dare be Gyurcsányok! That's what he said. Therefore, the program of complete comparison continues. As a result, all left-wing parties were forced to play a subordinate role, there is only one party on the left that could separate itself from the will of Ferenc Gyurcsány. The reason for their defeat is that nothing but nothing new has been shown in comparison to the failure policy before 2010, either in the leaders or in the concrete proposals. Even now, they were thinking about cutting back, canceling the pricestops, raising taxes, and cutting family subsidies, and abolishing the cost reduction. On top of that, when we got into a Russian-Ukrainian war, they were on the wrong side of war and peace. The Hungarians well knew that if the left had been given or had been given an opportunity, this country would be closer to the war. Dear Chief of Staff, Considering that you are interested in Parliament's work as long as your own speech is made, I would like to remind you here, in public, of what you said in this place a long time ago. Ferenc Gyurcsány said that they would win, and that the right-wingers would be taken away, there will be no mercy, so to speak. It wasn't like that. Finally, the Hungarians said to left-wing politics that, by the way, and listening to this speech, they seem to continue. We do not have this type of threat in our style, but all we would ask is that they threaten not the Hungarians, not the pro-governments, but only their own departments. But mostly not even them, because this threatening pace may have a tradition in the tiny villa, but there will be neither a majority nor a majority among the Hungarians. However, they were right about one thing: the power belongs to the people, and they have voted out the left for many times, and as long as Ferenc Gyurcsány is their real leader, it will remain so. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-05-16-30	Hajnalka Juhász, representative of KDNP, applied for a pre-meeting speech. Here you go, Congresswoman. [[12.20]]
u2022-05-16-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We are having a difficult time with the challenges of Covid, and we are experiencing a difficult time with the reality of the Russian-Ukrainian war. As politicians, we have the responsibility and responsibility to provide a realistic alternative for Hungarian people and to protect Hungary's energy supply. We must treat it as a fact that Russia produces more than 40% of the natural gas used and a quarter of the oil used in the European Union. It is also a fact that Europe does not have enough non-Russia-based fixed-line natural gas, and it is also a fact that our country cannot develop floating terminals in the absence of a coast, so at present Russian or any oil can only come to Hungary through pipeline. Although in March the leaders of the Member States agreed both in the Versailles Declaration and in the conclusions of the European Council to support only sanctions proposals which take into account the national circumstances and the different energy mix of the Member States, the Commission did not take the voice of the nations into account. It has presented a package of proposals which would jeopardise the supply of energy to certain Member States if it were to be implemented. The sixth sanction package of the European Union against Russia was announced by Ursula von der Leyen on 5 May 2022 with a total import ban on Russian oil, including sea and landline transport, crude oil and refined oil. crude oil would be planned by the Commission in 6 months and refined oil by the end of the year. The Brussels proposal on import bans does not contain any realistic alternatives to the requirement of decoupling from Russian fossil energy and therefore the current sanctions package cannot be supported. There is no alternative to how transport, transport and agriculture can be operated as a result, especially in the light of Europe's energy inflation. This Commission proposal does not provide a solution, nor any guarantees, but it would destroy the achievement of a reduction in the cost of electricity. At present, it is up to the European Commission to conclude any kind of agreement, but no proposal has yet been made from Brussels that would be able and able to compensate for the expected 55-60 percent increase in fuel in Hungary, which would be the result of the introduction of an oil embargo. The reason why this Commission proposal is extremely flawed is because it is not about the quickest possible detachment, and this is the main message, but about finding the right alternatives. For example, oil is currently only allowed to arrive in Hungary via pipeline, almost two thirds of which come from Russia. For years, the Hungarian government has been striving to reduce our country's dependence on Russian fossil fuels, but given that this dependence has developed for historical and geographical reasons, it cannot be eliminated from one moment to the next. Our country's stable energy supply would be completely destroyed by the Brussels proposal. The adoption of the proposal and the entry into force of the proposal would simply make it impossible to obtain the amount of oil necessary for the operation of the Hungarian economy. So far, we have supported five sanctions packages in Brussels. Five. But the Hungarian government has stressed from the beginning that the supply of energy to Hungary is a red line. The price of war must not be paid to the Hungarian people, as we have so many times stood up for this economic reality and values. Our position is a realistic and clear alternative, i.e. the sanction package can only be supported by Hungary if the embargo is limited to maritime transport routes, i.e. if pipeline transport is fully exempted from the embargo. In connection with the war in Ukraine, our country has been on the side of peace since the beginning. We condemn the aggressor and give all humanitarian aid to the war-stricken Ukraine, we welcome the refugees, who have come to our country almost 700 thousand people since the outbreak of the war. In the light of the results of 3 April, we have been given a clear mandate to defend Hungary, to preserve the peace and security of our country, including the security of our country's energy supply. We are looking forward to developments, because today, Minister for Foreign Affairs is negotiating in Brussels. In order to protect the Hungarian people, as has been the case so far, we only support a viable alternative. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-05-16-32	I give the floor to the Secretary of State Tamás Menczer.
u2022-05-16-33	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Indeed, the country's energy supply and energy security are extremely important strategic issues, so it is important to talk about reality and facts, together with numbers. 65 percent of the Hungarian annual oil consumption comes from Russia, I note that in the case of gas, this percentage is 85 percent, so 85 percent of the Hungarian annual gas consumption is Russian gas not our fault, but we wouldn't mention diversification in relation to gas for a longer time, we did all our tasks and 40-50 percent of the European annual use is Russian gas. So I would just like to note that the proposals to pull up another sweater and turn the temperature down a notch are in the ridiculous category of gas. But back to the oil. Indeed, this embargoed Brussels proposal, as you have referred to it, would hurt us more than the targeted Russia, would hurt us more than the Russians. What is it about in real life? It is about this proposal creating a problem, creating a problem, and creating a serious problem, but not proposing any solution. If we look at the consequences of the proposal, we can see that if the embargo proposal in Brussels is implemented, we will use a lot of time, five years, use an unconscious amount of money, and in the end, what will be the result after spending a lot of money and years? The more expensive fuel will be significantly more expensive. What does that mean by numbers, exactly? The result of the embargo proposal in Brussels would be that the Hungarian refinery technology, which can and can currently process Russian oil, should be transformed. This would cost EUR 500-550 million. On the other hand, the capacity of the oil pipeline from Croatia should be increased at a cost of around EUR 200 million, because the Adria pipeline is currently experiencing capacity constraints, i.e. an investment of EUR 200 million. And after 55-60 percent increase in fuel prices, the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian energy sector should be modernised to an extent that would also cost EUR 15-18 billion. So we're talking about numbers and costs that represent an amazing magnitude. In the end, there would be only one result: fuel would be much more expensive, we could talk about a fuel price of 700-800 forints. That is why we have said that the problem is clear, but the proposal for a solution is not behind it in Brussels. We also said that Hungarian families must be protected from this, and indeed, the price of war should not be paid by the Hungarian people. We also said that we generally do not consider sanctions policy to be effective, and we voted in favour of five sanctions packages in the spirit of unity, but Hungarian energy security and energy supply are red lines. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Perhaps even so that there was an election here in the past, before that there was a campaign, and during the campaign two things about the Hungarian left were clearly revealed. One of them is that they would support sanctions such as this Brussels oil embargo proposal, which would impose sanctions on Hungary in an extraordinary way, as their Prime Minister-designate, the candidate for Prime Minister of the Left, said in the campaign that sanctions and decisions on Brussels would be acceptable to Hungary, which would also seriously affect Hungary and hurt Hungary. We also learned from the left that he was pro-war, because we also learned from the Prime Minister's candidate during the campaign that he would send soldiers and weapons into the war. On the other hand, the government's position was clear and it is now: Hungary's energy supply is a red line, we are protecting it, and it is also clear that we are on the side of peace, so we are not sending weapons to Ukraine, as is the case with NATO, and the most important thing is that this war does not go beyond the borders of Ukraine. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[12.30]]
u2022-05-16-34	Dear House, I give the floor last to Gabriella Selmeczi, representing Fidesz, in the line of comments before the agenda. Here you go.
u2022-05-16-35	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Violence against women, reasonable suspicion of sexual scandal, threat, victim error, smearing of the investigation of the case and smearing of the perpetrator where all this is happening is Jobbik. This is the true face of Jobbik, the moral standard defined by party president Peter James. Over the past years, we have witnessed the total moral and mental decline of the Jobbik Hungary Movement. Jobbik's latest scandal is that a politician is suspected of sexually harassing one of the party's co-workers. In addition, the victim was assaulted at a closed party event where he had reason to believe that he was safe among his own. According to the news, the victim may have been threatened several times or even had physical violence planned for him in case he told anyone about the incident. Peter James' re-election occurred despite the fact that this party's perhaps worst scandal so far, which according to current information, Peter James, the old-new leader of the party, tried to cover up by all means. For him, the presidential position is far more important than the investigation of this shameful case. Sneaky, insidious, cowardly behavior, and yet more so in his Facebook post, James declares the loyal party soldiers to him, and I quote: "You are the backbone of Jobbik, and you are the backbone of the nation. This communication is bizarre, in which it puts the party's deeply listening membership from the scandal to a moral height, even though it is simultaneously one of the most serious scandals of the party that is unfolding. The police have since initiated proceedings in this case, by the way, that's right, that's right. We, representatives of Fidesz and KDNP, condemn all forms of harassment and sympathize with the victim. This cannot be a party political issue, nor can it be a political issue; harassment does not have a party colour. At the same time, we find it unacceptable that the leadership of Jobbik, Peter James, knew about the incident from the beginning, but instead of protecting the victim, he only deals with how to save the perpetrator from the consequences. We didn't hear a good word from him, as if nothing had happened. Ladies and gentlemen of the Opponents, Your silence in this case is incomprehensible, especially after the previous monocle action, the rally protests and other spectacular protests. Perhaps the Allied Party, the non-existent reputation, is more important to you than the intimidated victim. I will go further with the questions: where are the civil or rather false civil organizations that raise their voice in the suspicious case? We have seen three organizations who supported the victim: the Everyday Women's Eye Association, the Young Family Club and the Hungarian Women's Interests Association. We thank them for their stand here. It was a legitimate request from them that women's representatives of the left, including Ágnes Vadai, Anna Oros, Timea Szabó, Olga Kálmán, Ágnes Kunhalmi, should set an example and distance themselves from the suspected better politician. We're asking you to do the same. Ladies and gentlemen, This is the Hungarian left today. That's their real face. In fact, that's what they are: blaming others, even in the event of a clear guilt, cowardly going into the background to somehow get through the storm. It is no wonder that less and less people ask for such hypocritical, sturdy representatives. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-16-36	Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
u2022-05-16-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You have provided us with the information we know about this case at the moment. I would like to draw the attention of the entire Parliament and the public to the fact that we are talking about a suspicion of a serious crime. The Criminal Code is 197. According to Article 2 of the Act, two to eight years of imprisonment may be punishable, who commits or attempts to commit such a crime. The sentence shall be five to ten years of imprisonment if the perpetrator commits the offence to the harm of a person under his authority or influence. And anyone who provides the necessary or facilitating conditions to commit sexual violence is also punished for a crime of up to three years in prison. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that all those involved in, or involved in, covering up such a crime may also be subject to the criminal act of acquiescence. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, former MP, published an open letter from the victim, from which I would like to quote a few sentences. If a left-wing or liberal woman is raped and released in decades, the entire left-wing liberal political community and the campaign of defenders will stand up for her. And if this happens to the mother of a right - sided four - year - old girl, who will not open the formal procedure out of grace for four months, she can expect her own to stone her and consider her faulty. I thank the pro-government representatives who stand by me for giving me back my faith. Love, Anita. This is how his open letter ends. Dear House, I would like to inform you that the government will fully ensure, not only for him, but also for other similar victims, all the legal and financial means of victim support. So the tools of victim support are at the victim's disposal. We will try to inform him of this, of course, with respect for his personality rights. So, in addition to a serious political issue, we also regard this as a victim protection issue, and as Parliament has passed the Victim Protection and Victim Assistance Act, the Parliament has decided that victims of such sexual violence or such people who are in such a situation must be helped, in any case, in their legal form and moral support are also available. Dear House, So I would like to reassure you that in addition to the political aspects of this case, the victim is in favour of the government, helping the victims, the victims can count on their help in such a situation. I ask you that any woman or man in a similar situation should be aware that victim assistance is at your disposal in such a case. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-16-38	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2022-05-16-39	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; László Varju, DK; Balázs Barkóczi, DK; Attila Sztojka, Fidesz; Dávid Dócs, Mi Hazank; István Apáti, Mi Hazank. He applied for the speech before the agenda tomorrow: Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Bence Tordai, Dialogue; István Szabadi, Mi Hazank; Zita Gurmai, MSZP; Lajos Lőcsei, Momentum; Zoltán Sas, Jobbik; István Hollik, KDNP; Erik Bánki, Fidesz Bánki. On the day after tomorrow, he applied for a speech after the agenda: Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; János Bencze, Jobbik; Ferenc Varga, Jobbik; Lóránt Keresztes, LMP. [[12.40]]
u2022-05-16-40	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that on 9 May 2022, Mr Ferenc Gelencsér announced that the cause of conflict of interest against him will be removed with effect from 19 May 2022, so that at the meeting of the Parliament and the parliamentary committees he can exercise his right to vote and to vote from 20 May 2022, to submit a motion from that point on, and to be entitled to remuneration from that date. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Dear House, We are now deciding on an exceptional proposal. The authors initiated by submitting the necessary number of supporting signatures that the Parliament discussed in an exceptional procedure the T/47 on the list of the ministries of Hungary. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The authors initiated the possibility of submitting an amending proposal within three hours of the decision on the exceptional procedure; the consolidated debate should take place on 17 May 2022 as the first item on the agenda; the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote should take place on 17 May 2022. Dear House, Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of more than half of the Members, that is to say, 100 Members. Now it's time for decision-making. I'm asking you, do you agree to hearing this proposal in an exceptional procedure, according to the national motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has accepted the hearing of this proposal in exceptional proceedings by 153 votes to 13, with one abstention. In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be submitted for 15 hours 42 minutes today. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on an emergency proposal. The author initiated the amendment of certain laws to the Act on the Listing of Ministries of Hungary by T/48. The Parliament will also discuss the number of proposals under urgent procedure at this meeting. Mr Lajos Szűcs, please describe the emergency proposal.
u2022-05-16-41	Dear House, Regulation No 10/2014 on certain house rules Parliamentary resolution hereinafter referred to as "the House Rule of Decision 60'. On behalf of the Government, pursuant to paragraph 1 of Section T/48 of the Act of 2022 on the listing of the Ministries of Hungary, I propose the amendment of certain laws on behalf of the Government. Urgent trial of bill No 1. The urgent negotiation is necessary because of the rapid adoption of the bill and the immediate implementation of the regulatory tasks necessary to establish a new government. I propose that the general debate of the bill be held on Tuesday, 17 May 2022 immediately after the decisions have been taken; an amendment should be made on Tuesday, 17 May 2022, until the end of the sitting; the detailed discussion phase should be opened with the closure of the general debate on the bill; the Legislative Committee is the House Rule 46. After receiving the information referred to in paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article, but in accordance with paragraph 46. Before the deadline laid down in paragraph 2 of Section 2 of this Article, you may evaluate the Commission's proposals for amendments closing the detailed debate. In view of the above, Article 15 of the Rules of Procedure of the Decree provides that: On the basis of paragraph 4 of Section 4 of the Act, I shall initiate the amendment of the draft agenda of the Parliament meeting on 16 and 17 May 2022 with the general debate on the proposed bill, so that the bill in question can be adopted in the week starting on 23 May 2022. The amendment to the agenda is justified by the government's interest in the establishment of a new government as soon as possible.
u2022-05-16-42	Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members present to order an urgent hearing. I'm asking you, T/48 is going to be in an urgent meeting. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has had 154 votes in favour, 14 against and no abstentions, and T/48 has been dealt with as a matter of urgency. Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear House, In view of the fact that the factions did not ask for any interpellation, immediate question or question, these will not be discussed at this meeting. I'm going to take a break for 14 hours and 30 minutes. (Sunning: 12.45 14.34 President: László Fat Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Szűcs)
u2022-05-16-43	[[The people in this room stand up. Katalin Novak will take his place in the box of honor. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down. The representatives of DK and Jobbik are not in the room.]] Dear Parliament, Allow me to extend my compliments to President Katalin Novak. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Katalin Novak, standing up, thank you for your applause.]] Prime Minister Viktor Orbán [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Former President of the Republic, Pál Schmitt (Applause in the ranks of the governing parties). Mr János Áder, former President of the Republic (Applause in the ranks of the governing parties). Péter Boross, former Prime Minister (Applause in the ranks of the governing parties). ), former Speaker Katalin Szili , all former and current public officials, leaders of Hungarian and cross-border historical churches, representatives of foreign Hungarian communities, members of diplomatic bodies, Hungarian representatives of the European Parliament, Members of Parliament, representatives of national minorities, all our dear guests, representatives of the domestic and foreign press and everyone who monitors our work. Dear House, The election of the Prime Minister follows. Under Articles 1 (2) (f) and 16 (3) of the Fundamental Law, President János Áder nominated Prime Minister Viktor Orbán as Prime Minister. The proposal for this is S/39. They were able to get to know him on the IT network. Dear Parliament, Pursuant to Article 16 (4) of the Fundamental Law, the election of the Prime Minister requires the vote of more than half of the Members of Parliament. The Prime Minister will take office with his election. I ask the Honourable Parliament, he elects Viktor Orbán as Minister-General of Hungary. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the Parliament elected Viktor Orbán as Prime Minister of Hungary by 133 votes in favour, 27 votes against and no abstentions. [[Long-lasting, great applause in the ranks of the governing parties. Representatives of the Dialogue shall withdraw from the Chamber.]] Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the solemn oath. I ask you to listen to the Prime Minister's oath standing up. [[The people present will stand up. Viktor Orbán steps into the middle of the room. The commanding officer comes in through the entrance to the President's pulpit and requests permission from the Speaker to import national and historical flags from the centre of the Chamber, who grants the authorization. In addition to the sound of the fanfares, the wardens march on both sides of the presidential pulpit with the flags. The decorator holding the national flag enters the center of the hall, and the flag is tilted during the duration of the oath. The commanding officer stands next to the decorator holding the national flag. The decorative guards on both sides of the pulpit also overthrow the historical flags.]] I ask Prime Minister Viktor Orbán to take his oath.
u2022-05-16-44	I, Viktor Orbán, vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law; I will keep its legislation and keep it with others; I will exercise my position as Prime Minister for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God. [[A long applause in the ranks of the governing parties. Viktor Orbán will return to his post as Prime Minister.]]
u2022-05-16-45	Please, let's sing the Anthem. [[The people in this room sing the Anthem together. The people present will sit down.]] I would like to ask Prime Minister Viktor Orbán to sign the oath papers. [[It's happening.]] Thank you. Dear House, On behalf of the Parliament and myself, I congratulate the Prime Minister of Hungary. I would like to ask Prime Minister to give his speech. [[14.40]]
u2022-05-16-46	Madam President of the Republic! Mr. Speaker, Fellow Members! My first words of thanks are: thank you to my fellow Members for your support, thank you for the voter's trust. I was elected here by the Members, but I do not forget that the mandate comes from the voters, the Hungarian people. We have worked for the trust and authority of the electorate, and I have worked for it myself, and in recent years I have tried to serve my country as best I can. We have not spared myself or ourselves in the electoral battle, so I stand before you, for the fifth time, with the serenity and self-confidence of the work done with honor. Thank you to all my countrymen at the border and beyond, whether they were born in or out of the world, for participating in the joint decision of the Hungarian nation, which marked our country's path for four years. Our opponents have made sure that the election takes place under unprecedented international and domestic control. Everyone has seen that Hungary is a country where no election abuses can occur. I thank the opposition activists for helping to protect Hungary's reputation and public confidence in Hungarian democracy through their monitoring work. High electoral participation is a cliché of healthy democracy, but it is true. Hungarian people are interested in their fate, they have an opinion on public affairs, and they do not hide it. In the 32-year history of Hungarian democracy, no party has ever been voted as many as the Fidesz-KDNP list and its candidates. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And more importantly, after 12 years of governance, we received the absolute majority of the votes. I will try to earn this enormous trust across Europe without precedent. It makes me wonder that we have won our greatest victory at the very moment when, according to all human calculations, we had to fight in the most difficult terrain: the Hungarian left and their international allies, politicians, moneymen and the media have joined together against us. Let us be clear: Brussels and György Soros played for our failure. [[Szabolcs Szabó: Meg Zelensky!]] We were revolved with what they could; no wonder this victory would lighten us up. My friends, there's nothing more exciting than being shot at and not hit. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] We have won four times in a row, despite financial crises, a pandemic, a flood of migrants and a war threatening our country. Such a series of victories is unusual in Europe and even in the wider Western world, and is unprecedented in terms of the proportion of victory. It is worthwhile, and even mandatory, to look for a deeper meaning. I believe that Hungarians, not only the leaders, but also the broadest masses, have sophisticated historical instincts and a particularly sophisticated sense of danger. [[14.50]] That's no wonder. A thousand years is a long time. The Hungarians have learned that in times of danger, disintegration, opposition, infighting can have serious consequences, decline, failure, and even loss of country. Infighting and strife are the luxury of happy times of peace. This isn't the kind of time we're living in. At the time of trouble, the order to join forces, the order of command. If you pull yourself out of it, it's a danger to the community, to the nation and to the country. For such parties and politicians, the electorate is therefore taking good care of it. And the Hungarians also know that cooperation, consensus, does not come about on its own. The consensus must not be sought as an Easter egg, it must be established. In politics, it takes strength, ability, and most of all good hearts, goodwill, and patriotism, who has it, to gain the trust of people. For me, this is the historical lesson of the 2022 parliamentary election. Dear House, The beauty of the Prime Minister's work is that every major decision, whatever minister it belongs to, is ultimately the Prime Minister's responsibility. It's a big burden, some of them put them in the ground, and some of them are thrilled. I consider the Prime Minister's primary responsibility to understand in some way, to anticipate the times ahead of us and to prepare the Hungarians for this. Understanding the future as a task, it teaches you that you can never be smart enough on your own. Successful governance requires dozens of experts, advisors and spiritual people beyond ministers. Fortunately, Hungary has never lacked excellent skulls in my work. Dear House, Everything that has happened since 2020 and everything that is unfolding today, that is to say, from which we can understand the nature of the decade between 2020 and 2030, points in the same direction and goes into one spring: Europe, the Western man, in him and with Hungary, we Hungarian people have entered the age of danger. This decade will be an era of danger, uncertainty and war. The decade began with the coronal virus epidemic and continued with war. The war and the European sanctions policy in response led to an energy crisis. The energy crisis and the US interest rate increases brought about a period of high inflation. Together, this will bring about a period of recession, economic downturn, when economic performance will be reduced, stagnated and slightly increased in Europe. There may be threats of epidemics, the economic downturn may deepen, and migration to rich countries will be intensified with tectonic force. On top of that, there is a real war going on in the land of our eastern neighbor, threatening a prolonged and global expansion. A picture of a war decade unfolds in front of us. It would be nice if we didn't, but we need to start from reality, not from our desires. We Hungarians must prepare for this, in this confusion we must set the course and create our own policy. The picture of the war decade ahead includes the renewed suicide waves of the Western world. I see as such a suicide attempt the major European population exchange programme, which aims to replace missing Christian children in Europe with adults and migrants from other civilizations. This is how I see gender madness, which perceives man as the creator of his identity, including his sexual identity. And this is how I see the programme of liberal Europe, which goes beyond Christianity and nation states that have so far kept the West, and puts nothing in their place; which sees freedom in a man cut out of his community, family and country, and forgets that man can never be free alone, but alone. We are therefore struck at the same time by economic problems, war threats, Europe's internal spiritual weakness and Brussels' political errors. In this situation, we must set the route for Hungary, and if we have set it, we must put it on it, and then keep our country safe. It's a difficult task, but we can do it. We can do this because the Hungarians are made of toughness, so we are stubbornly resisting the decline. Reasonable order, stability, no self-righteousness, but more humility and, above all, uncompromising, unbending loyalty, and meanwhile sincere kindness, sound self-interest, a cheerful, self-respecting and courageous Hungary would therefore be the endowment for the next government. I am especially counting on the communities of the believers of the historical churches, whose existence in itself is already a great value for Hungary. We will ensure the conditions for preaching the gospel, freedom, and respect for the churches. We see the growing demand for church schools, hospitals, and nursing homes, which will be an important part of our work. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] And I can see the psychological and physical impressions of the resuscitation of national cohesion all over the Carpathian Basin. This is good not only for Hungarians living across the border, but it strengthens the universal Hungarians and strengthens the mother country. Hungarians across the border can count on us, and we will continue our unifying work unwaveringly. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] Madam President, Dear House, First of all, I have to talk about Hungary's safety. It's the 82nd day of the Ukrainian-Russian war. This war shouldn't have started. The knowledge of the old Romans still applies: you cannot see the beginning and end of things at the same time; that is, war is easy to begin, but it is difficult to finish. [[15.00]] Europe has no means of dealing with the conflict in its neighbourhood today. Without strength and resources, the leaders of the continent are convinced that European sanctions can bring Russia to its knees. This is possible on paper, and a number of paper politicians are floating some sort of theoretical evidence, but no matter how I try to remember it, I can't think of a continental lockdown that would have been effective; but I've seen it fall for the guy who made it up. Let us hope and pray that it will be different now. Hungary will not prevent sanctions for the benefit of European unity until they cross the red line of self-preservation of the Hungarian economy, i.e. they do not jeopardise Hungary's energy security. Hungary is a member of NATO. In 1999, we introduced Hungary into the Western military federal system. Our political community, my government and myself consider it essential for Hungary to become a member of NATO, this is the safe point from which we can build Hungary's security strategy. NATO is a defense alliance. You must not be tempted to engage in attacking military actions outside the territory of your Member States. He must not turn from a defense alliance to a military alliance. NATO is neither the antanite nor the antanite. The importance of our NATO membership was never as obvious as it is now during the Russian-Ukrainian war. Things are getting worse. The Russians declared the war a military action that could be fought without enlisting, i.e. it was infinite, and the Americans decided to use the loan lease law known from World War II to finance Ukraine's unlimited military and military assets together with the worst possible combination. Therefore, the war in our neighbourhood will continue for a long time and with a quantity of weapons that are difficult to comprehend and will pose a permanent security threat to Hungary. The most important task of the next decade is to stay out of this war and protect Hungary's peace and security. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] It won't be easy, because we are under enormous international pressure. In my opinion, whoever carries a gun is already in the war with one foot. We are on the side of peace building, war destroying, so we want an immediate ceasefire and peace talks, and I promise you that I will stand by our position. (Applause in the ranks of the governing parties. ) NATO is a sure support, but it will not protect Hungary for us. Maybe with us in case of trouble, maybe, but certainly not for us. Peace and good will alone are few. If a country's army is weak, its soldiers are unarmed, and its people do not want to defend themselves, they will attack that country first. Dragon against dragon requires dragon grass. The dragon grass is called the Hungarian Defence Forces, which it is able to strengthen and develop a real defense into an army, the most urgent task. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Dear House, In this war Ukraine is the attacker and Russia is the attacker, which is why we support Ukraine and that is why we launched the largest humanitarian aid action in Hungary's history. We, in proportion to the size of the population, have allowed most of the refugees, and we will provide those who need help, and we will help the Ukrainian refugees. We are now putting aside the fact that previously the Hungarians in Transcarpathia have suffered violations, and we are also putting aside the fact that the President and Government of Ukraine openly intervened in the Hungarian election campaign and supported our opponents; however, the Ukrainians can count on Hungary and the Hungarian government. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Dear House, In view of our debates with Brussels, I must also speak specifically about the European Union. I make it clear that Hungary is a member of the European Union, and it is in our interest to keep it in the decade ahead. It is true that Brussels today seeks to reduce the sovereignty of the Member States, including Hungary. It is also true that instead of a Europe of nations, it is trying to elevate a new European empire, the united states of Europe, following past French and German traditions. It is also true that cultural distance, almost cultural alienation, is growing between the western part of Europe and Hungary. This is because we believe in the Christian civilization foundations of Europe, we believe in the nation states, which they have given up in Brussels. It's important for us to have God's blessing on us. It is important for us to have a country that we can love and be proud of. It is important for us to maintain the continuity of a thousand years of Hungarian life, the Hungarian quality of existence in the Carpathian Basin. It is important for us to die knowing that our children and grandchildren have a country, that they have a lot to continue and preserve. We know that this is the biggest thing a Hungarian person can give to their children, and this precedes any confused speech and policy about common European value and ever closer integration. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Dear House, Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, it is also true that Brussels is abusing its power every day and is trying to force us to do things that are bad for us and that are alien to us. In the spirit of living and letting live, we have offered tolerance in the case of migration, gender and, most recently, the oil embargo. Our tolerance offers have been rejected. But we still don't give up the protection of borders, we don't break down the fence and we don't let migrants in. [[15.10]] We protect our families, we don't let the gender activists into our schools, we have the father man, the mother woman, and we leave our children alone. We stand by Hungary's peace and security, and we do not adopt economic measures that would destroy Hungarian families. If that is so, and so it is, the question is now, my fellow Members, what we are looking for in the European Union. The answer is to our dreams. We seek our dreams, the community of free and equal nations. We are looking for the homeland of the country, the democracy of democracies. We are looking for a Europe that fears God and protects people's dignity, which is at the peaks of culture, science, and spirit. We are not members of the European Union because it is what it is, but because of what it could be. And as long as we see that there is even a chance, we will fight for it, because such a Europe gives the most chance, the most luxurious space for an independent and free Hungary. When we think of the next decade, we see Hungary in the European Union determined to fight for its rights and seek allies to renew the Union. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The challenges of the war decade ahead are therefore facing a Hungary that is a member of NATO and the European Union. This is a good starting point, but it is not an answer to the challenges of the decade. The answer can only be a national-based and successful economic policy, and I must now speak in more detail about the economy. The ten years between 2010 and 2020 were a decade of great progress. In the second place, we ended up increasing the number of jobs in the 27 European Union, increasing investment in the second place, increasing the minimum wage in the third place, reducing taxes in the first place, and increasing household financial savings in the third place. Not bad. Moreover, in terms of development, we managed to prevent Greece and Portugal, even though they had joined the European Union long before when we were still an occupied country and the flag was still largely for the Communists. But the last decade wasn't easy either. Remember, it started with a major financial collapse in the West, and then the migration crisis and then the coronal virus epidemic with all its consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, We've seen a lot of things, but we've never seen the world economy turn upside down twice in a short time. First, a global economic crisis occurred as a result of the pandemic, 114 million jobs lost, 42 percent global investment decreased, and world trade decreased by 5 percent. The factories closed in bulk and the production capacities went down. As the epidemic eased, the factories did not open automatically, but a fierce competition between the countries began, where new production centres, plants and factories should be created. Let us appreciate that Hungary has fought well in this competition over the past two years and has become one of the winners. We made the best investment of all time last year. In Hungary, an investment of HUF 1886 billion was launched, and we also broke the record record of the largest greenfield investment in Hungary. These investments now give us a chance and hope to deal well with the economic crisis ahead of us, and the Hungarian economy can grow further instead of a downturn. At the beginning of 2022, the global economy suffered another shock, and the Russian-Ukrainian war came. East-West transport routes must be redesigned and supply sources replaced. Many countries in the world are threatened by food shortages and famine. In this situation, several of our previous strategic decisions will be appreciated. The Belgrade-Budapest railway line has a good chance of replacing the damaged Ukrainian routes as a continuation of the maritime transport route to Greece. The southern gas pipeline with the Balkan countries can replace the pipelines from Ukraine. In the era of current energy crises, those countries that are able to produce their own energy needs will be safe. The construction of new Paks blocks and solar investments will therefore also be of key importance for national security. Dear House, Three quarters of our products are sold in Europe, but the largest and most modern investments are now coming from the Far East. We're standing on our feet, and that makes our economy crisis-resistant. We were forward-looking and prepared for a revolutionary renewal of the automotive industry. We have done a great deal to make Hungary the European leader in the new generation of automotive industry. The world's largest battery production capacities are built in Hungary, and we will soon be third in the world export ranking. Warring parties are among the world's most important cereal exporting countries. Following Hungarian agricultural and food developments, we can produce twice as much food as we need today, so Hungary is not threatened by food shortages. But just in case of grain exports, we reserve state pre-emptive rights. In the decade ahead, low taxes, physical safety, advanced road and rail routes and political stability will be the main arguments in the competition for investment. We are doing well in these, so we will continue to build our economic strategy on a high level of investment. In summary, I can say that the commitment of the government that we are about to set up is to keep our most important achievements and not to give up our important goals in times of economic crisis in Europe. Even in these difficult circumstances, we undertake and undertake that Hungary will go forward and not back. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I'm willing to protect full employment. I undertake to protect our family support, I undertake to protect the value of pensions, and I undertake to protect the cost reduction. So everyone will have a job, a pension will have value, families will have safety and children will have a future. We plan to tame and curb inflation all over Europe first in Hungary. You may know that I tend to shy away from direct public intervention into the economy, but in such a case, the central bank and the government must intervene. [[15.20]] We will coordinate our steps, we will take careful but decisive price control measures. The results will be visible as early as September, and by the end of the year, we will be in a lasting position until Brussels finds its way back to sound economic policy. Ladies and gentlemen, I have adapted the government system accordingly. Members of the previous government thank you for your work, you have done excellently, we can be proud, and I am proud of your performance. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Now, however, we have a very different decade ahead of us. Therefore, the steering machine had to be broken down into parts and reassembled according to the logic of the new tasks. Thank you for giving me the support I need. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. Your Honour, Mr. President. For centuries, Hungarians have become accustomed to dying beautifully for their country. That is why we admire them, but we want to translate them now: we want to prove that we can live for our country, more, better and better, as our President suggested in his inauguration speech. This requires a country that is proud of its values, proud of the world's most difficult language, its unrepeatable and unmistakable folk art, its world-class high culture, its cutting-edge science and its world-beating sports performances. The soon-to-be government will work for such a Hungary. Hungary will protect families in the coming years and will be proud of its children. We believe in the honor of work, and we know that the character of our nation is compatible with the independent individual and the consensual community. I have found that we can be individualists and collective activists at the same time, because we know that there is a time and a place for everything. There is a time for unlimited freedom, for soaring, and there is a time for hierarchical discipline, for service. This is the ability of life instinct, survival and survival to the artistic level, which allows us not only to have our past and present, but also to have a future in the Carpathian Basin. This nature and the geographical unit given by God are destined to be the best place in the world, and our job is to turn it into one in cooperation with the peoples and countries that live here. This is in the common interest of Slovaks, Ukrainians, Romanians, Serbs, Croatians, Slovenians and Hungarians. Therefore, in the future we will not sit up for provocations or sharing experiments, and I will ensure that our neighbours can count on us, the Hungarians are their friends. We firmly believe in the common future of the people of the Carpathian Basin, we can and will achieve it, or even if we do not, young people today will surely. Today's young generation is our greatest asset and resource. We don't always see this, because perhaps the sharpest minds don't speak for the generation. [[Defiance.]] But if we look around the country, I see young people everywhere who love their country, who understand the world, who speak languages, who play the most modern techniques with ease. This is why Hungary has a bright future. As the Constitution says, they will make Hungary great again. Dear House, Finally, I would like to talk about the importance of a nation knowing its place in the world. We must not underestimate ourselves. In Hungary today, the attention of the Western public is not unusually high due to its population, army or economic strength. In addition to Poland, Hungary became the last Christian-conservative bastion in the Western world. We think different about the world and the future than liberal, globalist mainstream, and we build our country differently than they do with their own. We may as well be together, after all, we believe in the beneficial effects of competition, but Brussels today seeks exclusivity and is a symbol of exclusivity and unity in Brussels today. There is only one way to imagine and cultivate politics, country leadership and even Europe. Anyone who doesn't act at the same time will have an investigation tonight. [[Defiance.]] Hungary is rebelling against this. Eb's man is pale, Ugocsa non coronat. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, let us also see that in the meantime we have made a lot of friends, and more and more people feel that Hungary is an island of peace, a fortress of common order and security, one of the last posts of freedom. We don't hide the fact that we want to give hope to others. Hopeful that Christian philosophy of life, patriotism, national pride, or national politics, is not the past, but the future. Thirty years ago, we thought Europe was our future. Today we think that we are the future of Europe, we feel the weight of our responsibility. God save Hungary! The Good God above all of us, Hungary above all! Let's go, Hungary! Let's go, Hungarians! [[A long applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2022-05-16-47	Dear Parliament, I thank the Prime Minister for his words. Now I ask you to stand up and honor the departure of the historic flags and the national flag. [[The commander of the decorative guard will step forward, and the flags will be used to signal the sound of the fanfares to leave the meeting room. The people present will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, I thank you for the attendance of our invited guests. Now I'm ordering a 30-minute recess, and then the Parliament will continue its work. (Recess: 15.30 16.01. President: Dóra Dúró Note: Dr. Winner Vinnai and Sándor Szabó)
u2022-05-16-48	Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the proposal for a decision to order a national referendum until closure. Submission by the Judicial Committee H/35 Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr László Vigh, rapporteur for the Judicial Committee, rapporteur on the agenda, in a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-05-16-49	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At the meeting of the Speaker on 5 May 2022, the Parliament's Committee on Justice held a joint debate on C/21. and C/22. Number 1 referendum initiatives. Since the two questions are the same initiative, the committee has put forward a proposal for a resolution to Parliament in accordance with previous practice, which includes the questions proposed for the two referendums and the budget needed to carry out them. The committee did not take part in its meeting. As the National Election Committee found in its decisions that the number of signatures required in the two issues exceeded 200 000, the Judicial Committee proposed to the National Assembly the issue of referendums on the basis of legal requirements. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-05-16-50	I'm going to ask if someone would like to speak on behalf of the government. [[Dr. Répássy Robert: No.]] Secretary of State says he doesn't want to. So then, Honourable Parliament, we will now be taking the floors of the main speaker. First, I give the floor to László Sebian-Petrovszki, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-05-16-51	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear House, Now this debate is about the National Assembly putting out a referendum on two issues: Fudan University and unemployment benefits. Since the required number of signatures have been gathered on both issues, i.e. people have decided that they would like to be asked what their views are on these matters which concern them, I will ask the DK faction to support the launch of a referendum in these matters. However, at last week's Justice Committee meeting, I was the only member who abstained on this subject. Here and now, I would like to give a longer explanation of the reason for this abstention, and I would now like to say why we think of the institution of the referendum that I am about to present. In short, I would like to sum this up by the fact that the illegal government of Viktor Orbán destroyed the institution of the referendum as much as it destroyed Hungary. Let me start with a question. Ladies and gentlemen, How many valid and effective referendums have been held in this country during the last 12 years under the Orbán government? I look at my fellow Fidesz Members across the street. [[László Vigh: In 32 years, how much was it?]] Maybe they'll say something like that. It was nothing, my dear fellow Member, I will help you. We've done zero of these in 12 years. Exactly zero! There have been two types of cases in the last 12 years when there has been a referendum in this country. One of the cases was that you, dear fellow Members of the Fidesz, prevented cases where you could have been written out when people wanted to decide on the issues that concern them, because they were afraid of the result, because there was a real stake in these issues, and there were cases where you wrote referendums with propaganda steel themselves, but they were still invalid. The average man saw this: citizens have been able to decide nothing in the last 12 years, but nothing, literally nothing, in a referendum, even something that you wrote a referendum on. In both cases, let me give you two examples. When the referendum was at stake, when a case had political weight such as Sunday's closing, or such was the issue of the Budapest Olympics, what happened in these cases? In the event of the closing of the shop on Sunday, you sent bald thugs to the National Election Office to try to block the decision with an alternative question on the opposition that had been submitted, and finally to back off this case, did not take this political risk, and to pay the political price for it. But the same thing happened in the case of the Olympics, they turned their backs and gave up a referendum when it came to the fact that a sufficient number of signatures were collected and called dream killers who, by the way, gave their names and expressed their intention to make sure that they really wanted people to decide on these matters, because what it is like in a country when people decide on their issues. Well, it's terrible, really. So when it was a real subject of a collection of signatures, a referendum, the government did everything it could to prevent that from happening. Let's set an example for the other case. It wasn't the people who collected the right number of signatures, more than 200,000, they weren't standing in the snow, freezing, mud on the street, when I think you used your public authority to abuse it in 2016, or this year you took a referendum. In 2016, there was a referendum on a mandatory resettlement quota that never really existed, and in April this year on the genderlobbi of kindergarten that never existed. What do these two have in common? The common thing is, they've both been written about things that don't exist. Let us say openly, in Hungary a referendum has been held in the last 12 years when the government intends to put a referendum on some fake news. Citizens could not at any other time give an opinion on this. Let us note that this is the only way to vote in the Orbán system. Of course, the only way they could do this was to replace the National Electoral Commission and the judicial leadership with those party groups who were loyal to you, so that the referendum issues in these cases could slip through, and only in this way could they become real. Let us not be surprised, therefore, that we consider this government to be illegal. Another common element in these two examples is that there were still invalid referendums, the last month and a half ago, when on the day of the fourth two thirds of you fellow Members of the Fidesz, a valid referendum could not be brought together in this country, even that referendum was invalid, whatever they were lying about in this session, for example last week. We have no better proof that the Orbán government has emptied it, in fact it has abolished the referendum, that we are talking now in May about when and how the referendum should take place, while people gave their signatures to this in January. Four months have passed, of course nothing happened in this case. Everything comes before this House, and everything in this case goes as Fidesz fits into its political strategy. [[16.10]] Obviously, my fellow Members are already watching the date of August July, when this referendum will be possible without any greater risk, so that the will of the people will not be enforced and that they can participate in this referendum. So let me put it this way, ladies and gentlemen, nothing in the Orbán government can be decided by referendum, point. Nothing, yes, dear fellow Members. You held the democratic institution of the referendum, you painted it white, you put a clown nose on it, you put a clown nose on it, you put it on lipstick, and you put it on a stage on the stage of the NER to see that there is a referendum, actually there is this institution, and you should be happy that this is a real referendum initiative and action. Of course, we know that the institution of the referendum has remained only as a stage prop in this country, in fact it has not existed in 12 years. In 12 years, there were zero valid referendums in Hungary. These are facts, gentlemen, you can't argue with that. And, of course, it's not due to some misapplied law, or some authority, office, or committee is working badly, and that's why these things happen. It's not a glitch in the system, it's the system itself, it's your system. The essence of Viktor Orbán's sovereignty is that the people cannot decide their own affairs on matters that are important to him. The institution of the referendum exists on paper, and it is placed on this stage I mentioned, if it so happens, you will use it with propaganda steel, but otherwise it does not make any sense, and the illegal government of Viktor Orbán has abolished the institution of the referendum. Therefore, if the question is that DK otherwise supports the extension of the payment of a job search allowance to nine months, or that Student City should be built instead of Fudan University, then my answer is yes, of course, very much. If the question is that according to DK, people should be given the opportunity to decide on this important matter that otherwise affects their lives, my answer is again, yes, very much. But if the question that the current referendum rules allow the people to hold a valid referendum in the current regime, the people can override the government's will embodied by Viktor Orbán's illegal government, then my answer is that it doesn't, so it doesn't make any sense. Viktor Orbán's illegal government has evacuated the referendum, if you will. I can use a variety of synonyms for this; feel free to use them, my fellow Members. They do not want to give any public authority to the public and the country, so they have changed the rules of the referendum so that it cannot actually hold a valid referendum, so it has not been in the last 12 years, nor will it be in the future. However, I see that political politicians who may be better off from you may play the charade that there is still a referendum in Hungary, perhaps they will be willing to say in some cases that these are real cases, real referendums. I see the government's intention to want a domestic opposition to themselves, which does not criticize the substance of the system. We, the Democratic Coalition, will not participate in this charade. We will say it every time, even now: as long as we live in the Orbán system, thanks to you, the Hungarian people will never make a referendum on any matter. Therefore, as a general rule, we will no longer initiate a referendum or support a referendum initiative, because this would make us only participants in this charade. We will not pretend that the Hungarian people have such a right to vote on their own life. You have no right, because Viktor Orbán's illegitimate government took this, destroyed the country, took this right. Therefore, any referendum and referendum initiative is only good for maintaining a false appearance, a theater, and concealing the real nature of Viktor Orbán's illegitimate government. We are on the good side of history in the Democratic Coalition, we are on the side of the Hungarians. That's why we're not going to be involved in this charade, that's what we're going to do. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the lines of Jobbik, Momentum, DK, Dialogue, LMP and MSZP.]]
u2022-05-16-52	It is now time for the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, Mr Brenner Koloman. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-05-16-53	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Let's start with the two specific topics first, and then I will get there, as my previous colleague, the general assessment of the whole referendum procedure. Jobbik first initiated, as the only right centre national party of the opposition, that in the very difficult months of the coronal virus epidemic, in particular, we will raise the job search contributions for those more difficult Hungarian citizens from three to nine months, who have had a very difficult job during this short period, especially during the closure period, and who have had a very difficult time living. That is why we think that in a social market economy, which we believe in, where there is a social network for those who really need it, not for everyone, not for general law, but for those who really need it, the XXI. In the 20th century there must be a social network in a decent European Union state, and part of this is the increase in job search contributions to a minimum of nine months, since in three months, let's face it, it is very difficult, especially, to look for jobs for our fellow Hungarians who need re-training or further training. The other question is the issue of Fudan University. I do not wish to repeat my speech as a keynote speaker, which I said at the time as a university leader and university lecturer about the Fudan University's plan. I would like to say once again that there would be room for an outstanding international university in Budapest, but not in such a structure, and let us say that I would prefer to see the University of Tübingen or the University of Bologna or the University of Heidelberg in Budapest, and not a large university according to the current plans, a Chinese loan, of which details we do not know how we will repay, but rather a smaller international university where we will actually come to Hungary by an outstanding staff of teachers who will not provide high-quality knowledge for an inexpensive tuition fee primarily to foreign students, such as the University of Fudan would do, and would also make it impossible to plan for Student City for many years, but would bring modern knowledge to Hungarian young people, in a good international embedded way. The University of Fudan is therefore an outstanding threat to the already bled-out Hungarian university world, and besides the current rent prices, talented students, especially rural students, would need very much access to colleges that were provided by the 21st century. In the first century, they deserve it in a European Union country. Student City's plan has been going on for many years. The government negotiates with everyone, the government negotiates with the local government, the representation of the students, everyone, but there's just not a hoe cut. However, when it came to Fudan, you brought all the laws before this House with incredible speed, and voted swiftly, with no objection. I therefore think that both questions are a relevant issue, but both questions are a question that should not have been called a referendum in a balanced civil democracy, and should not have been decided by referendum, but if your one-party overpower, let us say, allow the opposition to set up committees of inquiry to carry out the control function that is due to the Hungarian Parliament in a decent civil democracy, then it would have become clear that such a question, such as the Fudan University or even raising the unemployment allowance from three to nine months, is obviously an issue that the Hungarian government should have corrected very quickly. Finally, let us give a summary of how we have come to this point. Technically, this referendum could have been settled on the same day if Fidesz's one-party overpower really wanted it, and this would have left 13 billion forints in the pocket of the Hungarian taxpayers, which you will now use for a rather vile political reason to issue a referendum by the beginning of August, so that they could point again to the opposition, that they could not even do that. [[16.20]] Here I would like to show you with honor that your referendum, disguised as child protection, was not effective in any way, even though it was linked to the election day. The opinion of Hungarian citizens could have been asked on these two issues, without any extra costs, well, some additional election papers should have been produced, but I think the cost of that printing would not have been 13 billion forints, as the implementation of this separate referendum would have been. In summary, Jobbik stands for the right-wing national party of the opposition to the right of Hungarian citizens to express their views in a balanced civil democracy, both in the Hungarian Parliament and in the referendum. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-05-16-54	The lead speaker of the Momentum Group is Miklós Hajnal. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-05-16-55	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Participating democracy is important, especially in a country where the rule of law and the cleanliness of elections are increasingly subject to legitimate criticism. If there is a question in which the Hungarians disagree with the government's position, then there is also a need for a mechanism to express their disagreement. This is why, among other things, Momentum supported the referendum initiative on the University of Fudan and on unemployment benefits. It is quite clear to us that, unlike the government's position, Hungarian voters want a Student City instead of a Chinese communist university, and they want a more solidarityful, flexible policy to support job search. From the fact that the required number of signatures have been gathered in just a few weeks, it can be seen that the will of the people on this issue is not in line with the position of the governing parties. Dear fellow Members, You won the election in April, but the real two-thirds of this issue is on our side. According to a representative opinion poll conducted last year, 66 percent of Hungarians prefer to reject the Fudan investment, with only less than 30 percent supporters. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Then let there be a referendum!]] It is not the first time that Hungarian voters see the necessary economic decisions more wisely than the government, according to the Hungarian people, it is more important to guarantee the livelihood and housing of Hungarian students. It would be great for the government to be so wise. Hungary has just been freed from the influence of a communist great power for three decades, and it is understandable that the Hungarians do not want to adopt a university guaranteeing the influence of another communist great power. Especially when a former KGB colonel in our neighborhood has invaded a peaceful, independent state in the spirit of violent Soviet nostalgia, forcing millions to flee, destroying tens of thousands of lives. Dear fellow Members, However painful and difficult it will be for you to explain to Chinese party leaders, Hungarians prefer affordable housing for Hungarian students. As a metropolitan representative and resident, I consider it irresponsible that you would hand one of the most valuable unused areas of Hungary's heart into the hands of the Chinese party state. As the youngest representative of the National Assembly, as someone who also resides in a sublet, your communist nostalgia is incomprehensible to me, which, moreover, will cost the Hungarian students housing. Let's just say, after you've rejected the disclosure of the agents' files 20 times, that's not surprising. Dear fellow Members, The referendums are really useful when they ask a question in which the will of the people is not clear. Such important questions are the best way to pay the costs of the referendum. But that's not the case here. On two issues so clear, it is not necessary to spend 13 billion forints on the part of the state in a referendum, because we could already follow the will of the people in Parliament. I would therefore stress that there is now a recent proposal on these two issues. I would urge my fellow Members to vote in favour, which will save the taxpayers 13 billion forints. This 13 billion HUF would be very useful in health care or education or in helping families in need. And then we didn't even talk about the hundreds of billions that you would instead use as Chinese loans to pay Chinese state companies and Chinese workers without providing affordable higher education to Hungarian students. So let's not be clowns. All of us are already hearing the people's voice, saving already on a wasteful budget, providing affordable homes for all young people who are learning, giving a stable livelihood to our fellow countrymen who are looking for jobs. We've made it easier for you, we've got a proposal, we've written it so you don't have to bother. Vote for it. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-05-16-56	The group of Mi Hazank indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to László Toroczkai, leader of the faction. There you go. You have the floor.
u2022-05-16-57	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will have to respond first to the speech and speech of DK's lead speaker. I believe that you have been painfully affected by the fact that according to some public opinion polling companies, the Hungarian Movement has already preceded DK, the Democratic Coalition, but then you should speak openly and speak directly about who you were insinuating when you said that there is a good system here for the opposition group or Members to the right of Fidesz in relation to the institution of the referendum as it is now. Because I would like to tell you that I would like the institution of the referendum to operate in Hungary, say Switzerland, and ask the Hungarians, the Hungarian citizens, about a lot of things, and not with this current set-up. We believe that it would indeed be good if the institution of the referendum could be a more easily run and indeed an institution for democracy in popular representation in Hungary. So we support it, if there is such a proposal, then we would be very happy about it. But in relation to this particular referendum, let me also say to you, the Balliberal side, that you have once again demonstrated that this single Balliberal side, which launched this referendum initiative, is working as if they were having a running race for themselves and could not win it. Because what has been done here in recent months and at the end of last year, when the initiative Gergely New Year's Eve promised to collect the necessary recommendations and signatures by the last day of the year, and it turned out that they were unable to do so, and then the election campaign, where they talked about things, couldn't even say what this referendum was about, then you did exactly that 13 billion forints, to which this referendum will come, we will throw it out the window. This is partly because of the system and regulation of the referendum in Hungary, and partly because of you, because it was you who were not even able to collect the necessary signatures by the deadline you promised. Now we are standing here shortly before the referendum, and the Hungarian people do not even know much about this referendum, so now we should campaign a long time ago. Thus, it is natural that almost 100 percent of the referendum will be invalid, so we will throw the 13 billion forints out the window. Then let's look at these two questions, of which I will deal with the first, and the second part will be dealt with by Dr. István Apáti, Deputy Group Leader. The first question concerns Fudan University, isn't it? We can support this, so we encourage people to start building a Chinese university here from 540 billion forints of Chinese workers, Chinese materials and Chinese credit, a university that we already have a lot of evidence of which shows that it functions as a spy's nest, a spy's nest of the Chinese Communist Party. Therefore, we are opposed to the construction of Fudan University in these circumstances, and we believe that Hungarian educational institutions are needed in Hungary, that Hungarian students should be supported, and not the Chinese Communist Party and non-Chinese spy nests. But we also need to add this, as you have just said that I want to support Hungarian students, and the Hungarians are important to you. Well, then protest, I ask you to protest the government's practice and policy that, for example, for many years in the framework of the Stipendium Hungaricum scholarship programme, the Hungarian state has spent more than HUF 30 billion on bringing so-called students to Hungary. Young people who, for example, were captured by a number of Nigerian citizens in the middle of drug sales at the Island Festival; that these young people were brought here by the government from a country in the framework of the Stipendium Hungaricum scholarship programme, from which the bulk of migrants would otherwise arrive. So they typically come from African and South Asian countries under the Stipendium Hungaricum scholarship programme, these young people who then typically don't go back to their country or stay in Hungary, if not in Hungary, because, let's say, they can't make money with crime, but they can't make a living on wages and salaries in Hungary, then they go on to another EU country. We're not happy about that either. [[16.30]] So we think they should stay home. We believe that in Hungary we do not only support Hungarian students in words. We want the Hungarian government not to spend the Hungarian taxpayers' money on such scholarship programmes and not on building Fudan University. Therefore, what I have just said, we can support point 1 in order not to build this Fudan University, especially within the framework of such a financial arrangement. Then we have to add that, and we have been saying from the very first moment that neither Fudan nor CEU. So, if we do not want a Chinese spy nest in Hungary, we do not want an American spy nest in Hungary, and we do not even support a spy nest of great power in Hungary, simply for reasons of national security. CEU, if Fudan belongs to the Chinese Communist Party, and CEU belongs to the global or globalist circles of the United States of America, which also seek to intervene in the internal affairs of other countries in the same way as the Chinese. So we don't support them. We are pleased that they are not in Budapest, but are currently in Vienna, but we would like them to leave Europe if they were not at all in the territory of the European Union. So no Fudan, no CEU! This is our message in the first place. Only, as I have just said, the Hungarian educational institutions and Hungarian students would like to be supported by the Mi Hazank Movement, and we ask the Balliberal side to pull itself together, and if you have already launched such a referendum initiative, try to collect the necessary signatures by deadline, or try to do something, say, campaign for success, because it will be a part of the money thrown out, a significant part of which is 13 billion forints because of you. Thank you very much.
u2022-05-16-58	Thank you, Mr Group Leader, for your speech. I now give the floor to Congressman István Apáti in the remaining timeframe. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-05-16-59	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Before I turn to your position on the issue of unemployment benefit in our country, let me say a few nice words to some of the representatives on the far left, because we find it quite amazing what you are doing here. I find it very difficult to follow the argument of the head of the DK faction, because from this I can see that you were first shot in the leg and now you're stabbed in the neck. To cast the vote on their own referendum initiative, we have seen a lot of things here in the last 12 years, it is a truly negative innovation, it is very difficult to interpret. Technically, I think of the words of István Csurka when I think about the left:. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. On the other hand, we were beaten by the good Lord with a real clumsy, two-footed left. You don't need outsiders, honourable left-wing fellow Members, you're gonna kill yourself, you're gonna have to say something or do something. Don't you ever lecture us in any way over the next four years, either in relation to legislation, democracy or good behaviour. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have already deceived the Hungarian voters in the name of their so-called alliance, that you have started out under a cover name for Hungary. Well, then I'll translate it: it's original, real purpose, in a unit for mandates, that's actually what this story was about. This has come to the point that now there are only dwarf, micro-, and nano- parties on the left. I'd like to point out that nano is part of a millionth of a millimeter. This, for example, characterizes the Dialogue, which has always existed on paper, and, compared to its real weight, has been extremely successful at lobbying at least within the left. It seems that you and some of your attached parts are already organizing pigstors where not only the pig's life is at risk, but there are many other things happening that are unsuitable within the circle or framework of a party on the left or on the right. Let us turn to the question of a job-seeking allowance, however, because, as a drop in the sea, it shows that you are not only incapable of writing a program, you are unable not only to calculate deadlines, organise a collection of signatures, respect the deadlines you set yourself, but also unable to ask a question normally, in accordance with their original, real intentions. For look at it, read back on the question that their common foggy Prime Minister candidate couldn't repeat on Kossuth Square at the time. You were talking about three months, six months, nine months, and you couldn't even properly define the concept of a job-seeking allowance. If we do a little law-historical look-out, we can see that in the last 32 years, this is the legal institution that has previously been called unemployment allowance, called regular social assistance, called availability allowance, replacement allowance, and now it is called a job-seeking allowance. The question turns out that you want to increase the duration of this to 270 days, 9 months in Hungarian, without any restrictions, limit or precise definition. I would like to point out that our country Movement does not regret any benefits from anyone, provided that it does so in order to turn its own destiny to the right. It does not treat the accumulation or pay-off of various benefits as a subjective right. If I had asked this question in such a way that, in the case of an exceptional legal order, I would have given some examples without the need for completeness, instead of three months, I would probably have supported the job-seeking allowance for nine months. Or if other conditions were made, for example, in the case of the health condition of the affected or entitled person, or in other exceptional circumstances, it would have expressed what Jobbik's lead speaker said earlier, that they were inspired by the pandemic, the situation created or created by Covid, which replaced the world war, but that is not the answer. The question is, honourable left-wing Members, that you want to go back to the times of Gyurcsány. Between 2003-2010, I worked as a writer, a sub-notary, and then as a notary in a settlement with three thousand souls, so I can remember very accurately the injustices that it caused, and exactly the circle that it drew deeper, which, by the way, wanted to support, or to highlight a social layer, or to put it in a more favourable position, or to make a certain layer of it prosper. The solution is not to spread the different benefits to the world without conditions, without precise wording, for 3, 6, 9 or 12 months. Therefore, in addition to the fact that the Mi Hazank Movement naturally agrees with the order of the referendum, if more than 200 thousand Hungarian voters have already supported it, then obviously this referendum must take place, and this must happen with the fact that it can be covered with money thrown out of the window, as Gergely Christmas and its associates were unable to properly calculate the different deadlines. Of course, we also have a lot of problems with Fidesz's power, but it's absurd that, now that you're angry at the whole world and everyone, because you don't have enough votes, you'll find blame in everyone but yourselves. Well, the fact that Fidesz has been given a two-thirds mandate for the fourth time is your responsibility, too, because if it hadn't been for the amazing destruction of the Gyurcsány-Bajnai era, Fidesz would never have obtained a two-thirds majority in 2010, resulting in the second, third and fourth two-thirds. So you and your uncoroned king, Ferenc, as a system-sustaining opposition, have a huge responsibility in giving this government full authority for the fourth time. So be nice to look for the culprit on your own, and not as bad football players, always pointing it at someone else. What does a bad football player do when he can't play? The floor is not right, the grass is not well mowed, the beach marker is not well swinging, the referee is not exactly blowing, the air humidity is poor. You are responsible for the situation that you created within your own camp. Besides, I do not think that you can be dissatisfied with the fact that in my opinion and in my humble opinion, you have obtained exactly 57 more seats than you should and allowed, and that it is also outrageous that extremist factions have been included in the Hungarian Parliament. To sum up, therefore, we support the position of our country and support that the referendum should take place, but in this way, in this way, we cannot provide a supportive answer to the question of increasing the duration of the unemployment benefit. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the ranks of our country.]] [[16.40]]
u2022-05-16-60	I now give the floor to Mr András Jámbor, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue. Here you go.
u2022-05-16-61	Thank you very much for the floor. I didn't want to start this kindergarten game, so, I don't know, maybe we'll point fingers at each other in a parliamentary debate, as if anyone but us could watch this thing. But then let's allow two things. On the one hand, since I do not know exactly how the dwarf protégé was said, I obtained 48 percent in my constituency and Dóra Dúró, representing 4.8 percent. On the other hand, I thought that our country was somehow on the side of the workers. I hear here that all kinds of unconditional money-taking is a job-seeking allowance. I can name a condition for a job-seeking allowance, for example, that you worked before. It's not about random spending of money, it's about getting in trouble getting paid. I believe that in Hungary, especially at the beginning of such a crisis, workers who lose their jobs should not only be entitled to nine months of unemployment benefits, but also to the current amount of money, which is extremely low, should be given much more support. I think that would be the least I could do. But let's move on to the referendum. This referendum has two questions: one is the Student City, which is about the housing crisis, and the other is the unemployment benefit, which is about helping people in distress. So this referendum is about life security in a three-way crisis that I think we have talked about a lot about here today. However, our goal is not to say very smart things, to make a good campaign, but to solve two problems that this referendum is about; to solve the increase of the job search allowance from three to nine months, and to improve the student city, which is not only about dorm seats, but also about rent apartments, at least two of the three agreements between the capital and the government have always changed this, but of its three agreements it is about the construction of two apartments. I think these are important goals worth fighting for. And we fought because there were thousands of us collecting these signatures in the winter. Regardless of the fact that I'm hearing now that our country supports this referendum, I didn't really see their activists collecting signatures either for a job-seeking allowance or for the construction of Student City, but I may have just missed it. So I would like to ask you two things; on the one hand, we have tabled a proposal for a resolution and, on the other hand, we have tabled a bill. If you think this referendum is expensive, then accept it. I think that would be one of the good ways, because then you wouldn't have to spend all that money on the referendum. The other option is to go on and fight this battle, as I said this morning: I would be very happy if they were to join the campaign on the other side, they would tell us their arguments, and we would argue about it. Hungarian policy should be able to have debates on these issues. And one more point: Fudan University is IX, right? It would be built in the district as planned in the place of Student City, which is also part IX. It's a district thing. I would also like to say that, when we vote in this referendum, Rule IX The district results are particularly important, because not only the country, but also the important issue of the people of Budapest, but also the Ferencváros, and I think that the opinion of the local people counts double on such an issue. So that's what I'd like to ask. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Legally, it's quite appropriate.]] Obviously, your questions in the referendums have also passed through the law, so these are completely relevant aspects. Thank you very much.
u2022-05-16-62	Now, Congressman Antal Csárdi, lead speaker of the LMP. I give you the floor. Here you go.
u2022-05-16-63	Thank you very much. Dear House, I will start with the most important sentence: the May Other supports the holding of a referendum on two issues in full scope of politics. 250,000 of our compatriots thought that the decision on this issue should be made by Hungarian citizens. Why is really an interesting question, because it is worth looking at the story of, for example, the birth of the Fudan law and the development of the current situation. Gergely Christmas, the mayor of Budapest, concluded an agreement with the government, which agreed, among other things, to build the Student City, a housing system serving students, which not only provides their housing to students who study here, but also adds the necessary infrastructure. Then, for virtually many, the Fudan Act came in a little unexpectedly, which resulted in more than two thirds of the size of the original Student City being taken away by the Fudan campus. I do not want to tell you in detail what it means for Hungary to bring Fudan University here by the Chinese Communist Party. I do not want to talk in detail about the fact that this university, which the Hungarian government is trying to build with a horriable amount of credit, whose geopolitical interests it is trying to serve, but I think that everyone in this House should know separately and together that these are not Hungarian interests, not national interests; especially when a housing crisis hit Budapest, perhaps even the whole country, against which we could not really see a meaningful step on the part of the government. Today, the price of an apartment in Budapest starts at HUF 160,000, and all other rental prices are only higher, which, of course, means that students arriving in the capital are forced to pay the 160,000 HUF extra rent from their pockets, plus the cost of education. So, technically, if you want to get a degree in Hungary today, you should be prepared to work through parental help or by working in addition to studying, you need a net income of approximately HUF 250-300 thousand. And I think that the construction of Student City could have eased this situation, and I think that we all have an inexorable responsibility for building Student City in accordance with the original plans. I think that bringing an elite university in itself is outrageous, where a six-month tuition is likely to exceed two million forints. And the government's answer to this was that with scholarships, tens of Hungarian students will be able to learn at this university; I would like to point out that, in addition to the tuition fee, this is from some 540 billion forints. I think we need to see these numbers, but I don't want to waste time. We're gonna tell you that during the campaign anyway. In conclusion, let me say one sentence on the other question, when we are talking about 9 months' unemployment allowance, honourable Members, we are talking about having time and existential security for a fellow countryman who has lost his job, for example, to be retrained in adult education. Just think: those whose skills are not marketable lose their jobs first. And since we are living in a very fast-changing world, I think it is once again a general responsibility for all of us to ensure that there is an existential and temporal possibility that people can transform themselves. This can't be done in three months. At the moment, the current legal environment does not allow this and is not fair to our troubled fellow humans. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]]
u2022-05-16-64	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No one asked for a word for two minutes, so we will continue the debate with normal speeches. Among these, I would like to give the floor first to Mr István Hollik, on behalf of the KDNP. Here you go, Congressman. [[16.50]]
u2022-05-16-65	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear House, The situation is quite clear in legal terms. There are two referendums, so the Parliament, the Members of Parliament, could do nothing but say yes to the bill before us, i.e. ordering these two referendum questions. It is quite amazing that those who launched this referendum in unity are all saying different things now, but, by the way, the largest faction, if I understand correctly, does not want to support the launch of the referendum. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: You don't understand!]] So they're running in a unit, but one's staying, the other's not supporting, the Jobbik doesn't know what he wants. [[László Sebian-Petrovszki: You should have paid attention, Congressman. Dr. Brenner Koloman: I need a text understanding seminar.]] And two smaller parties are really in favour of this. That's what this left-wing unit is like. Refers to public opinion polls here [[Antal Csárdi: Who?]] Mr Miklós Dawn is a fellow Member. He says that according to the polls, these cases would be supported by Hungarians, so let's not ask them. That's the left-wing concept of democracy. For some reason, in the case of DK, I remembered the film Matrix when speaking to our fellow Member in Sebian-Petrovsk, and the scene where Morpheus offered Neo the red or blue tablets. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Champions of the debate!]] He says if he takes the blue one, he'll find his way back into the matrix, he'll wake up the same way, and he'll think the same thing he's been thinking about. If you take the red one, you'll see reality. The fact is, on April 3rd, this offer was made to you. So the people decided on 3 April; you could have decided to finally take the red pill and see what the Hungarian reality is, what the people really think about you and the situation in Hungary. However, after a little hesitation, you took the blue pill and became absorbed in your own alternative DK reality, the alternative reality where you claim that today there is no possibility of a referendum in Hungary. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: That's right!]] They do this when there have been several referendums in the last 12 years [[László Sebian-Petrovski: Two invalids!]] and do so when you wish to abstain when voting on a referendum that you yourself have initiated. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: You don't understand!]] Isn't this a surreal world? I think it is. And the other is that, as I understand it, the real thing is that, even though you initiated this referendum, you really want to get out of it in the naughty way. They're not hurting us. They're deceiving their own activists who were asked to collect signatures in the cold last winter. They did that for you, and now from behind the referendum, once again, they want to back out with legal tricks. Well, what kind of behavior is that? But obviously that's your job, and we don't want to interfere. As a brave Democrat, Miklós Dawn said what he had to say and then left, but he was a communist here. So from a distance, I'd tell him to look at who he was dealing with. Look at his ally sitting next to him, and his boss, Ferenc Gyurcsány, who was KISZ, who had all his money and political influence. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: They are in your government! Dániel Z. Carpathian: It's a good thing you don't have one!]] He's got his political influence because he was a KlS man! And they're communists? You might want to take a closer look at this. Our fellow Member from Sebian-Petrovsk talked about not asking people. The fact is that there were referendums in Hungary on important, strategic issues affecting Hungary's long-term future, such as migration, gender madness, and there were countless referendums under our government, and also when you were ruling. One thing was unchanged, there was a time when you were in a government position, when you weren't, but there was one thing you were consistent about: the efforts to listen and ask people's opinions, they attacked each time. This is the democratic commitment of the Left. At the moment, I would like to make the referendum not happen, and to make this initiative not happen, on the basis of opinion polls. So if they're brave, why aren't they supporting them? I think it would be worth it to the left if they had already said that they had started in unity, to establish a united position in this, and finally, if they were talking about democracy, to respect the democratic institutional system, to respect Hungarian democracy by saying that if this opportunity is available and it was fought out by your supporters with their signature, then do not trip it up. At least do that, not for us, for them. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2022-05-16-66	It's now for Congressman Imre Komjathi of the MSZP faction. Here you go.
u2022-05-16-67	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Traditionally, I prefer red, so I'll stick to red pills and reality. The reality is that the best opinion poll is to go to a factory from which people are being dismissed, like they do at Continental, Mako or at Tungsram's various factories right now. All I'm asking for is a chance, a chance for the workers, the working women who are on the street right now. I want a chance to give them more than three months to find a job, because it's extremely difficult for them to find a job. By the way, we're not asking for aid, we're not asking for charity. We ask that there is an insurance relationship; when you work, you pay a certain percentage of your gross salary to a fund, and you expect, in return, that when you get into trouble, you get back on the street, get help from it. We look forward to this help, and we look forward to helping these people not for three months, but for nine months to have a chance of getting help to work. No one really thinks it's better to live on welfare than it is to earn a decent salary. We therefore support those who can and want to work, but we ask for help, nine months' unemployment benefit. I was in many places in the country, and they said that they did not want a luxury university, they did not want a Chinese university, but they wanted a chance for Hungarian young people once again to have a college, so cheap accommodations as close to universities as possible, where Hungarian young people can find a place to stay. So it's not Chinese Fudan University, it's Student City. Thank you so much for listening.
u2022-05-16-68	We now have Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2022-05-16-69	Mr President, Dear House, [[Dr. István Apáti: Mr. President?]] Madam President. With all due respect, obviously, it's not that late, but this could have an impact on the one-time opposition representative, and certainly on me. The fact is, today's debate could be fun if it wasn't about our future and it wasn't for that. I see that it is a little uncomfortable for my fellow members of the government to back down on this subject once. So from the very strong Chinese intention to introduce them, they've backed back a little bit. Nor did my fellow Member Nacsa justify how we got to the basic question so that we could even now debate a referendum. It's worth a mass. Perhaps you agree with me that your government is not characterized by the kind of backwards and the elegance that, well, here we are, then let the people decide. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes, you can.]] So there's a little sweaty explanation for that. But what we can see is that it comes in handy for you. Time delay comes in handy, since in the meantime there is no need to work out a rental program for young Hungarians. We have a budget period ahead of us, and it is quite possible that until the budget is presented, or even until the end of the budget debate, you will not put a rental programme on the table, since you can say that there is a referendum on the horizon, and then a decision will be taken there and that will be dealt with next year. So they can raise political capital from this, where appropriate, and I don't think you're interested in 13 billion. At the same time, it was very difficult to fit into government rhetoric as they conducted a raging campaign against migration. Few people may know it, but the emergency of immigration is here with us in a very, very long way. [[17.00]] And in the meantime, the migrant workers are being deployed organized and massed. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's right!]] [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's right!]] Neither Hollik nor my fellow Member Nacsa has ever explained why, as of September 1st last year, a government decree from all exotic countries, from the third world, should make it easier to import the labour force organised; nor has it been that, by working very detailedly through the meat processing industry, workers would be imported into dozens of professions that could possibly turn to Hungarian workers, as we see and get to the job-seeking allowance that we are facing the cruelest government in Europe. So this three-month something that you give is clearly leading to uncertainty; and it has led to the fact that there are over 100,000 unemployed people in Hungary who are not entitled to any kind of support because of strict rules. I'm telling you that out of this hundred thousand, if we had a free re-training program available to everyone and at least the rest of the social security net, there would be a lot, a lot of use, and we wouldn't have to bring in workers from the third world. (Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's right!) I must also respond to my fellow Member of Apáti. We've known each other for a long time, but if we had this conversation in the course of 2010, I would have been very, very surprised by this social insensitivity. [[Dr. István Apáti intervenes.]] So we don't expect a right-wing man not to have a Christian-social vein or sensitivity, but that's an anti-national thing you've been suggesting here! [[Dr. István Apáti: Oh! That's not what I'm saying.]] Well, let's just think about it: after the three-month unemployment benefit, you can grin on it, of course, but let's think about the decisions that young Hungarians make. Typically, I go to Western Europe, a country where the wage level is multiple of the Hungarians, there is a social safety net of some kind, if there is a problem with the child, I can take it to a hospital, a health facility, and at all, everyday life is a little stress-free. Compared to this, what do we meet in Hungary? After three months, a lot of people are cut off by the state system, and there are situations where bills come in, you have to pay rent, the child has to pay for treatment, development, and these often create unmanageable situations. If anyone, I don't want to distribute benefits unconditionally; anyone who knows me knows that very well. Even when the debate was about family allowances, we were the only ones, against everyone who would refer to the family card for the double family allowance, with which only basic food and child-rearing items can be purchased, so there is no unconditionality. Here, too, there is a built-in condition, on the one hand, cooperation with labour centres, but I also included cooperation with child welfare and social systems. So it would be unconditional if other opposition parties had spoken earlier, and by the way, they had not been included in the joint programme, let's say that they would articulate their unconditional basic income. That's not what happened, so there's no such thing as unconditionality. However, it is not expected that a fundamentally insecure Hungarian youth, who, let's say, has just started a family and lost his job, will be able to thrive in his homeland, alongside the narrowest system of the cruelest government in Europe. It's worth diving in the statistics. In Hungary, the average time to find a job is almost 14 months; what we are talking about here is three. Let's start getting closer to each other. It's not because anyone here wants to hand out benefits, it's not like that. We want these very few young Hungarians who are still there to manage in their homeland, so that no one has to leave their country under duress. It is therefore a fundamental national interest for these people to rebuild at least the core of the social network. This is also a demographic aspect, because if these young people are forced to leave here, they are having children in Western Europe, they are giving them to the kindergarten there, that child will be socialized there, and it will be very difficult for one to move back to Hungary, and then someone founding a family here, we all know that. So I ask for some flexibility in this because no one wants to give aid, but everyone who is reasonable and who really serves national interests, who really serves it, wants to rebuild the minimum social safety net. We could go to other questions, one of my fellow Member Nacha's favorites, the evictions. I do not know, for example, that he had already made a deal with the executive chamber with regard to the quarterly quota, because in the past, a quota had been cut off on a quarterly basis and so many people could be thrown out of his apartment if they had agreed. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Schadl, Völner, Judit Varga!]] We do not know when the families involved in this case will get their money back and from whom; we do not know a lot about social safety net matters yet, but we do see that the increase in the duration of unemployment benefit is far from a one-sided social transfer, which is not expected, and let us add that it is a fundamental national interest to keep the Hungarian worker at home. If not, then you, the Fidesz-KDNP, would not be working hard to organize the import of labour from the third world. And we will protest by all means against the fact that organized, clustered in container cities, tens of thousands of workers who could be replaced by at least a part of the domestic inactive, with the right help, again, not by aid, but by national interest, and another part of them could be replaced by the fact that we do not force young people who might be able to be kept at home with a flat, with some kind of fair tax discount and method. So we should look at all of these in a system. And it is quite amazing what the government is doing by allowing the Hungarian future to fall apart in the interests of daily market politics, because you now want to get away with this budget period without considering the housing issues of the young Hungarians concerned. We will obviously submit it, you will reject it, but at least spare us the circle, because it is clear that you do not want to deal with it in this budget planning period, you will point to a further referendum, and then you will want to dust it off. How effective this has been in recent years is what we see from tragic emigration data and even more tragic demographic data. This is a turnaround, not a party interest, it's a national interest. Thank you for your attention. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Whether or not?]]
u2022-05-16-70	I now give the floor to Congressman István Apáti, Deputy Head of the Group of Mi Hazank. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-05-16-71	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, Now I have a little more time to unfold, or to quote a great classic, now I have the opportunity to open up every little detail of reality. Let's get in line, because there's been some confusion here on the left, and I would really respectfully ask the DK representative to clarify his position: [[László Sebian-Petrovszki: You didn't listen either...]] This stay is either a one-man party of the Masks or a party stand, or they're trying to do this weird peacock dance again, because at least it's very misunderstanding what you said. So it would be good to clarify that, and it seems that they are running away from their own initiative. But let's go back a little longer. You said that only one referendum hasn't been successful since 2010, that's right. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: Thank you.]] , it was only known in 2021. Therefore, no new circumstances arose or any new circumstances arose in 2021 from the announcement of the referendum, from the pop-up of the idea to today as a brand new one. You knew exactly everything when you ran into this whole operation, just as you just said the President and Group Leader of Mi Hazánk, you organized a running race, and you were the only one who started this race, and you can't win this race either, but you can't really get to it either. So they're gonna be pissing themselves off by their two-foot attitude before they get to the start. You, when you ran into this, knew that there was no effective referendum, not in the previous 12 years, but only in 11 years. So, quite simply, this argument is something quite amazingly dewy. The other one. I am very pleased that, with the help of my former colleague, Dániel Z. Kárpát, a small real debate is finally beginning, and I must point out that between two extreme positions, Mi Hazak represents the position of social justice alone, because there is also an extreme fact that Fidesz binds the dog to the stake, that it cannot be longer than 3 months, that there is no differentiation, no recognition of individual situations, no flexibility in the system. It's a real extreme. The other extreme, represented by the left, although we are not surprised that without any restrictions and differentiation, this should be raised from 9 months or perhaps even longer. This is the other extreme. I would like to ask my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z., that he does not try to twist my words, so I think it is the easiest thing to say here at the beginning of the term, or to ask you that this can happen three times to try to misinterpret my words: first, last and never again. So these three occasions have now been shot at at the same time by Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, because I did not say what you are trying to put in my mouth. I didn't say that our country, in agreement with the Fides, only sees the solution for the three-month eligibility period. We said and I said that, let alone that they could not write a programme for the elections, rather than organise a collection of signatures on time, rather than keeping a deadline of their own, they could not even hold a question, Mr President, in a normal way. [[17.10]] There is no reference to the extraordinary legal order or to any other extraordinary circumstances in this question, here and here you want to increase the duration of the job search allowance to a nine-month period. And I believe that the Hungarian Ugar looks different from Obuda and Csillaghegy, but I looked in Eastern Hungary between 2003 and 2010, and I saw that I emphasized a certain layer, not everyone, because it would be unfair and unfair, a certain layer how it went wrong and their search for employment was the type of case law that developed during the Gyurcsány-Bajnai period. This also points to the need to differentiate, because, for example, the layer that Congressman Komjathi was talking about is completely different from what I experienced in East Hungary. The layer of workers that really wants to be placed, which is really doing the right turn of their own destiny, has a completely different situation and completely different sociological characteristics than in many smaller and larger settlements in Eastern Hungary, especially in the period 2003-2010, because not everyone has the same reaction to a period of entitlement raised from 3 months to 9 months without any limitation, because in many cases, however surprising, the unemployment and labour shortages greater than the average in our region are both present at the same time, and both are also affected as least as possible. Because the odd situation, honourable Member, is that in the poorest district of the country from which I come, there is already an amazing shortage of labour in the district of Csengeri, especially among the workers of physics and the two hands, so there is much more vacant status than there is for these statuses, but at the same time if we allow certain layers to be comfortable with this net supply of up to HUF 200 thousand per day from 3 to 9 months without any restrictions or controls, then we will achieve that, for example, there will be even less working hands in the agriculture of this rural sector, because they simply will not go away, if the state care expands in this sense, and, for example, in the construction sector, there will be a serious shortage of workers, which will otherwise result in an increase in the number of guest workers coming from Ukraine or from other parts of the world, this will be the direct consequence. Therefore, this institution must be touched very carefully. But I would like to tell you that we can agree that it would indeed have been better to deal with this in the legislative framework, that in the last 12 years, the majority of the cases were not legislating, but the difference between the two was not only grammatical, but also substantive, and it would have been much better if the elected and well-paid 199 representatives of the nation had decided on this issue and we had not wasted 13 billion HUF 600 million on issues that we could have discussed here, by the way. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] I would therefore like to point out that, if there is a proposal, say, to the Committee on Enterprise Development, which concerns this issue, I will support, for example, the inclusion in the series of subjects, precisely so that there is a substantive debate on this issue and that we try to eliminate both extremes, so let us not tie the dog to the stake, that in such an economic situation it is only 9 months, and that there is no longer, and that we do not recognise any other circumstances or that are more favourable to the rightholder, but that is the other extreme that you are trying to present here in this form. So we are not socially insensitive at all, we are socially sensitive, but we are also socially just, because we have a lot of experience, whether it is mayor or notary or other official experience, in terms of the extent to which an exaggeration from another side can cause damage to employment policy and also to the labour market. So my advice to you is that you should try to get to work more carefully when you have to ask a question, because we got into the Hungarian Parliament on the one hand, that we had to march in Orbán-forced counterwinds, and on the other hand, the left did everything in its power to make sure that we didn't succeed. So, when the great democrats were instigating that our party president's Facebook page of more than 200,000 will be erased by Facebook, and then, in the last few days of the campaign, our central side will be launched, we have to ask what they would have said if this had happened to you, to your injury, to the detriment of you, so you are such great democrats. Freedom of expression matters to you only as long as you are able to express your own opinion, when you should or would like to say this to Members who stand to your right, then freedom of expression will immediately be secondary. And we have not been able to formulate questions, but we have drawn up a program from fragments of resources compared to you, with the help of the Hungarian people we have been able to do this, without being pompous, but I can say with sufficient self-confidence, a program on which the substantive debate has not even started, because you did not want to promote, let us say, our program; and you have not been able to write a program, not even the question of unemployment. In fact, their foggy-common prime minister candidate, as I said earlier, did not even know how many weeks the world was in Kossuth Square, had no idea what event he was at, could not say exactly what it was about and what time they wanted it, perhaps by a third or fourth run he was able to put it a little more accurately than he did on his first run. So let's face it, if you're angry with us, or if you're trying to turn our words around, or if you're responsible for the fact that there are so few of you who voted for you, it's completely absurd. Thank you very much.
u2022-05-16-72	Ladies and gentlemen, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches, here in a round of a faction I have the power to speak to a Member. I therefore give the floor to Mr László Sebian-Petrovski, representative of DK. Here you go.
u2022-05-16-73	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am a helpful, kind boy, basically, so I would also help my fellow Member, Hollik, but now I would also help my fellow Member, Apáti. I did not listen, and at the beginning of my speech, I said that I had abstained at the Justice Committee meeting last week, and that my speech will be about it, and I said for a long time, ten minutes, why I abstained, what is wrong with the referendum I would not repeat. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You wrote it!]] Therefore, DK's position was also expressed that I would ask DK and my group to support this proposal here in the vote, and I would like to suggest to Congressman Nacsa that you read the Diary and you will see it. And it is a fact, my honourable colleague Hollik, that in 12 years there have been only two referendums in this country, two, I show you [[He'll show you two fingers.]] Two, two. [[István Hollik: So it was then!]] And they're both invalid, that's the thing. So what happened? The truth is that in this country, in 12 years, under your government, under Viktor Orbán's illegal government, there is no referendum, no substantive referendum [[István Hollik: You just said there were two!]] your propaganda-plated, fake-organized referendums [[István Hollik: Can it be?!]] These two, and that one was invalid, both of them. [[István Hollik: Is it possible or not?!]] So once again, in 12 years there could not have been a valid referendum, and we think that there will also be no future referendum. Thank you.
u2022-05-16-74	I am now speaking in a normal time frame to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, a representative of KDNP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-05-16-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. So let us be clear: there has been a referendum in the last 12 years because it cannot be written out, but there has been a referendum, so I recommend the facts to Sebian-Petrovski László because it is important. You're talking about these two referendums, aren't you? The last referendum, the referendum on child protection, has brought the biggest support for the last 32 years in one direction on one issue. [[László Sebian-Petrovszki: It was invalid! Zsolt Gréczy: Invalid and ineffective!]] on one issue, you have brought the largest amount of support in one direction, not even in one direction to join the European Union and join NATO, honourable Member. [[László Sebian-Petrovszki: It was still an invalid referendum! István Hollik: It is!]] And, uh, let's take a look, shall we? [[László Sebian-Petrovski: Yeah, that too!]] What your position in these two referendums was, the cowardly position you took with your leader Ferenc Gyurcsány! In 2016, the referendum against the resettlement quota, even your politicians, acknowledged that there was a resettlement quota, and it is still there today. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: No! It wasn't! It wasn't!]] and it is still on the tables in Brussels, and you have acknowledged this several times, and the fact is, what was your point of view is that you can say yes or no to the resettlement quota. What was your position? Oh, let's not go, let's not vote, let's vote invalid, let's draw a little bunny on the paper. That was your courageous, strong, democratic position, honourable Member. [[László Sebian-Petrovski: And it's invalid! Zsolt Gréczy: And we were right!]] And what did they do now, in the child protection referendum? Same thing. They chose the cowardly position. Stand up, argue, yes or no, they couldn't argue, they couldn't hide alone, they couldn't hide alone, and they could say, "Let's make it invalid." [[17.20]] I would like to correct my fellow Members here, because we did not make the parliamentary election and the referendum for one day, but Congresswoman Szabó Timea was so kind and submitted such an amendment, and her proposal for amendment was supported by a large majority in the House, honourable Member. I miss the courageous, debate-ready democrats who quickly escaped the hall after their keynote speaker, Brenner Koloman, Miklós Hajnal, Antal Csárdi or Jámbor András, but I could even say my message to Imre Komjathi, because this is a debate. They said their position in the same way as Ferenc Gyurcsány in the morning, and they did not wait for the answer to be heard in the opposite way. I would like to quote here the matrix example of my fellow Member Hollik, so that we do not by chance come across an opposite opinion, because we know that you liberals are only tolerant until you come across an opposite opinion, something else comes up, let us say, reality or a fact. You say we're afraid to ask people. We have held two national referendums, and we have held so many national consultations, honourable Member, over the last 12 years, which was just about asking people what they think about fate issues, what they think are important issues. And how interesting it is that now they do not shout their success propaganda like Péter Márki-Zay and Gergely Karácsony, who claimed that 470 thousand signatures were collected in this referendum issue. They forgot to say that these two arches were covered, and everyone signed both arches, and in the end they barely crossed the 200 grand. You've managed to collect 200,000 signatures in 36 days. Remember, honourable Member, when you were in the government and there was a social referendum, our political community collected 300,000 signatures in 48 hours, my honourable fellow Member. You may remember this period, the social referendum in 2007. We are now debating why this referendum should be issued now. Because you couldn't collect the signatures in time. Because even your activists, your sympathizers, weren't willing to give their names to your controversial questions. Dániel Z. Carpathian always tries to take the debate in a completely different direction, which has nothing to do with what is written on the current proposal for a resolution. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: This is what is called democracy when other people say otherwise than you!]] We have had enough discussions here about the University of Fudan, honourable Member, you have been involved in these debates. Then we also said that if the conditions for the investment are known, then there can be a referendum on it. The power belongs to the people, as you have said before, but now they don't like it so much. Ferenc Gyurcsány told us today that it is not because the electoral system is illegitimate where he does not win. But we know that when he doesn't like something, he shoots people's eyes out and gets them scratched, and we're used to it from people like Gyurcsány. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, you are accusing us of everything here, while you want to withdraw from your own questions in referendums. They want Hungarian people not to be able to express their opinions. You are about to take the path of the Netherlands, Prime Minister Rutte, who you idolized, who, when a referendum was written out and the wrong result came out, quickly terminated the institution of the referendum. Dutch Democrats are so brave, they quickly eliminate what they don't like. My fellow Member Z. Carpathian spoke again about the social network. My fellow Member, work is the first and most important element of the social network. That's the huge difference between the two sides. We believe in work, and we consider it the first element of the social safety net to work, and you are immediately the aid, the other members of the United States for Hungary, the basic income, and so on, many things that don't lead the economy forward, they don't help people's livelihood, they only keep them on humiliating aid. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, none of them spoke about the fact that unemployment was 3.2 percent in Hungary in March, and this is the fourth best figure in the European Union. Compared with this, the average unemployment rate in the European Union was double that, 6.3 percent in March. Therefore, what is needed is precisely to preserve jobs and create more. And when you say that these are not results, when you do not acknowledge these results, which we have achieved in the last 12 years by creating a million new jobs, by achieving almost full employment, you ignore the work of Hungarian people, you ignore the results of Hungarian businesses. I think it's a mistake. When you talk about Fudan University and Student City, I have often said this in the debate, and you are always able to approach this issue on a whether or not basis. And we said that there was an opportunity for Student City to be built, and if people choose, it could be Fudan University, my fellow Members. This is the 34th best university in the world. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: And why do you want to bring the Chinese Communists here?]] I have also told you, my honourable fellow Member, that you can look it up from the Diary, too, if you have suggested this to me, that if anyone from the first hundred universities in the world says that you want to come here, we must support it in the same way. We must also support the first, the eighth, the 37th and the 78th, because it is in Hungary's interest. It is in Hungary's interest that Hungarian universities become competitive, that there should be competition for students, that there should be quality in higher education. We don't spend huge amounts of money to improve higher education for nothing. We are the leaders of the European Union in spending on GDP, as far as higher education is concerned, but you have neither supported nor voted in favour of these decisions and these measures. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you, if you've already done this and told us to ask the people, then don't refer to a thousand-person poll here, Miklós Hajnal, what you saw in this. Ask the people. Because you were unable to collect the signatures, because you were unable to make use of the deadlines given, do not blame us, at the most. And I ask you that if you are serious about democracy and you are serious about the slogan that turned out not to be the power of the people, then you should vote calmly on this proposal for a resolution, because if someone meets the legal requirements, then it is clear that this referendum must be issued. And one more question arises, honourable Members. If you want to back out so carefully now, not openly, because László Sebian-Petrovszki will not openly say that they do not want a referendum, but we know what the game is about on the left, then the question is very, very, very much that you have actually used this signature collection in December and January to build an illegal database. You didn't collect signatures because you knew you didn't want a referendum, you knew you didn't want to write it, but you wanted 200-300 thousand signatures, even hundreds of thousands of signatures, just because so many people didn't support their referendum initiative, they became 200 thousand valid signatures, and 200 552 signatures became valid, my fellow Member, so we also have this question, because we know what abuses they may have committed in the past period with the Bajoran Analytics, the secret Gyurcsány lists. What I would like to ask, ladies and gentlemen, is that, if so, you should apologize to the people you led and have them sign these sheets. Say it out loud, because I'm going to do all this scheming, and I'm going to do this little sneaky talk about how I was staying at the Justice Committee meeting, but I might not be staying now, and I might have to, but I'm not sure I'm gonna do it then, and I'm gonna do it like that, by the way. They're kind of mashing this question a little bit, smearing it like that. Feel free to say it, if you can see that you have failed in this matter as well. I think the Hungarian people also sent you a clear message on 3 April. No more people have ever voted for a political community than we have, and you were given an opinion on 3 April. I would ask you to accept this opinion, and with this opinion, continue your politics behind your back or in front of your eyes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2022-05-16-76	Once again, a two-minute speech will take place. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Gréczy, the representative of DK. Here you go.
u2022-05-16-77	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I will not comment on the subject, but on the political orientation; when Mr Hollik talks about the KIS and the Communists and said that we are liberals. Well, we weren't members of the Liberal International, we were members of the Fidesz. And there's no Fidesz government, no one from 98 that didn't belong to MSZMP or KIS leader, including the one that's taking the oath now. If you're so anti-communist, join the opposition parties and vote for the publicity of the agent files. This could do a great deal to make the past clearer and to make it clearer who the communists were and who didn't. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2022-05-16-78	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] Since I do not see a candidate, the general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[László Vigh: Yes.]] He says he wants me. I give the floor to Congressman László Vigh. Here you go.
u2022-05-16-79	Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to thank you for your opinions on this proposal. We often argue about who's right, the left or the right. Listening to the debate, here was a very big referendum on 3 April, I think it was a deep stomach for the left that he was looking for his place, looking for solutions. With regard to the referendum, I would like to say that they have jumped into a pit that they simply do not know what to do. [[17 .30]] Let me tell you a short story about that. It wasn't just now, maybe two, three, four cycles ago, in a small village, a man started as mayor, there were several, and one of the runners also went to vote, his wife too, and he didn't get one vote. You fear that you will not take as many people as you have collected signatures to the referendum. The stakes are very high, because we can spend many billions in the referendum and be completely ineffective. It is now the fourth time people have given their opinion in a referendum, in 2010, in 14th, in 18th and 22nd. I believe that what the Fidesz government has done in the last 12 years has been rewarded. Listening to Mr Abbot, there are two extremes, three months and nine months, I think that's what the people decided on the 3rd. The Prime Minister said that 3.6 million people work here in 10 years, and we would like to see 1 million more people work in 10 years. Today, 4.8 million people work. Underlining Mr Apáti's words that today more jobs are offered than there are unemployed, so today in Hungary we have created conditions that anyone who wishes can work... [[A statement from the opposition in Eindhoven!]] can work in Hungary. If you open one of the newspapers where jobs are advertised, read how many hundreds and thousands of workers are earning in the catering industry in Hungary today, starting from the construction industry everywhere. So I think that the policy that Christian-conservative, civic values mean was rewarded in the elections, they gave him a majority, and now you've gone into a street you can't get out of. There's nothing we can do, and the law says the Parliament has to sign it, so they're in a lot of trouble. So they've got a stomach block, and now we've got a second. Well, I'm very sorry for your loss. What I can tell you is that the Justice Committee has done its part, brought your proposal here, and my request to the Parliament is to accept it. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2022-05-16-80	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We are now at the end of the debate on today's agenda, and now we are going to take the floor after the agenda. After the agenda, MEP Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, has applied for a speech:, For how long? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2022-05-16-81	Madam President, Dear House, Now would be the time for the Fidesz Members to come, if they were in sufficient numbers in the Chamber to do so, although a State Secretary is still sitting in his seat, he may even reply. For the Hungarian State, perhaps nothing is as big a business as collecting VAT. The person who participated in the budget debates can roughly see that an amount of over 5,000 billion is here, if everything is included. In 2019 a very interesting article appeared on this subject, and I have to say that an excellent summary of the 24th hu economic section examines how much VAT is collected from Hungarian citizens who should be helped by a family-friendly government in childcare after the various child-rearing and childcare articles. What we see is that while, let's say, the amount of the family allowance that Jobbik would double on the family card, which would make it available to basic foods and child-rearing articles, this is essentially frozen, so half of its value has been virtually inflame in the last 12 years, the date that this government really made history was 1 January 2012. He wrote a history of raising the key of the general sales tax to 27 percent, causing a brutal increase in the burden for Hungarian families who should manage the price of the stroller, children's furniture or breathing monitor, in addition to daily childcare articles, baby food, children's clothing, and diapers in a normal world. By the way, the excellent analysis of 24.hu doesn't even understand these things, so if we were to take into account the price increase, it would be even worse as a father of situational image, training and raising small children, I can confirm that the price of an average stroller has unfortunately increased by one and a half times in recent years. We see that, according to the 2019 calculation, the family allowance per child remains about HUF 2-3 thousand if we deduct all the VAT on child-rearing articles; this was 2019. According to our own calculations, now, in these months, the indicator is turning, we have just come to the point that after raising a child, a family raising a child has paid more VAT than a family allowance on the other side. The calculation does not include a lot of things, and we also see that they leave the most, more than HUF 16,000 in total, for probiotics, cough suppressants, vitamin D and baby care items without which the XXI. It is very difficult to imagine raising children in the first century and yet we see that the support for this is at least incomplete from the other side. They usually point to family tax relief at a time like this, otherwise it would be very good to make it easier for those who are not bank leaders or Members of Parliament to be available, regardless of the level of income. But what we see is that if we calculate the amount taken by 27 per cent VAT, and I mean not only the children's education articles, but, let's say, food, where the very wide scale is still 27 per cent, if we calculate the brutal damage resulting from knowingly weakened forints, this is in itself a thousand billion per year, and if we look at what additional damage is caused by social uncertainty, evictions, excess executions, the overall result is that a much greater amount than the amount of family tax is transferred out of each Hungarian family's pocket. It was particularly repulsive in the period between one and two years ago that the government's family-friendly measures were being promoted from more than a billion forints, but they were recovering horrific amounts from each of the children's educators. This is an opportunity, and we are now presenting a proposal for a zero percent reduction in basic foods. But I'm going to ask you not to forget the childcare and child rearing articles, because it's untenable that the burdens of families are firing, brutally increasing. If you are raising a child, you know perfectly well that if you go into the unit of a multi-chain, it is not uncommon to ask for 400-500 for a piece of baby food, not to mention the price of diapers and more. If this government has ever been serious about the demographic trend shift, has ever been serious about supporting child rearing, then there would be a very nice, very symbolic gesture that would clearly indicate what the priorities of this cabinet are and what is at the beginning or at least in one of the first places. That is why I call on you to touch the VAT content of child-rearing articles, to release 27 percent of the European record, and to take an example not only of Britain, but also of many other countries where, say, the general key is about 20 percent, but they only ask for a 5% key for children's seats, VAT-free not only for basic foods, but also for child-rearing articles, and also for children's clothing. That would be the direction, the direction to follow, it would be time to finally learn this. Thank you for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and DK.]]
u2022-05-16-82	After the agenda, MEP László Varju, representative of DK, asked for a speech:. What is happening in Újpesten? It's an address. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2022-05-16-83	Madam President! Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, I would like to take this opportunity once again to report on the efforts that we are making in Újpesten and Angelland in order for the country and our district to grow in this sense. Spring is here, and we are working in Újpesten to deserve that our district won last year and won the most prosperous district title. In recent days, we have had a number of joyful developments in our environment that we should be proud of. For example, Újpest's first lavender park is being built on the banks of the Szilas Creek opposite the KRESZ track. The Ownership Committee of the capital approved the municipal plans, so there is no longer any obstacle to walking in the park decorated with benches, horses, sitting pebbles, walkways, selfie points, solar field lighting, about 1432 perennial plants and 5870 lavenders in our free time. Another important step on the road to a commonly dreamed green Újpest is that after breaking concrete, there will be 40 high-bed community gardens in Újpest, on the corner of Spring and Viola Street. In the garden there will be 40 high beds, a green community square, for small children with sandy sun sails, a garden tool storage, a closed compost storage, benches, a bike attack, and all this will be waiting for the Újpest people, after 1124 square meters of unnecessary asphalt, concrete and gravel beds have been opened in the vicinity of the Károli Gáspár University. [[17.40]] I think it is important that, in my commitment and also as a Member of Parliament, we focus on everyday life, and if I have just shown you how we are building our environment in the district, then I would like to highlight what you are doing and how you are destroying the country. Most of the time, we gather with my friends in front of the market in Újpest, we meet all those who express their views, and in this way, I think you can see or have experienced that devastating prices are mentioned, and many people talk about it, because it now makes life difficult for every family in Újpest and Angelland, and even makes it impossible for some people. A significant part of the passersby complains that math doesn't come out to make it simple for you at the family table at the end of the month, or if you somehow solve the given period, we'll all be in big trouble soon, with this rate of increase. In fact, the basic food today has more than one and a half times as much to pay for pasta, eggs, tomatoes, and coffee as it did a year ago. It is unacceptable for the families of Újpest and Angelland to drink the juice of the Orbán government's irresponsible and failed economic policy in May 2022, where they already have to pay more than a thousand forints for a kilo of dry pasta. But it's not easy for you to calculate either, if a kilo of flour costs 500 HUF, six eggs added, then it's about another 360 HUF, and then there's no work fee in it, and it's easy to get to the end. But ground coffee is worth 4,000 forints, and a kilo of tomatoes costs over 1,000 forints. I therefore demand that the government finally do something about the amazing rate of food prices and reduce the VAT on basic foods. But it is also your fault that housing loans have been loosened, housing crises are plagued by all the families in Újpest and Angelland that do not have a million-dollar share, with tens of millions of HUF's borrowing capacity. This is also demonstrated by the analysis of the Bank360 professional portal, to what extent interest rates have increased: I say to you alone, a loan of 20 million is 30 percent higher than it was a year ago, and in the 20-year period, a total of HUF 10 million is to be repaid to those who have just taken up the loan and not last year. The Orbán government, which calls itself family-friendly, only thinks about benefits favourable to the rich, but this is not a solution in the country of payments that are less than daily. Thus, hundreds of families in our districts are in a hopeless situation, because the Orbán's economic policy has put the possibility of starting a single life in an unfathomable distance. Thank you very much for your attention and patience.
u2022-05-16-84	After the agenda, MEP Balázs Barkóczi, representative of DK, asked for a speech: In the district, there is an increasing problem with the problem of the lack of kindergarten educators. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2022-05-16-85	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear House, Perhaps many of you have met in the 15th century. on the border sign of the district with the slogan "We're looking out for everyone." I believe that this is a very beautiful idea, which properly expresses the respect and solidarity of the people living here with each other and the community spirit that created a single district of the New Palace, built in the 1970s, from two separate settlements, Rákospalota and Pestújhely, and from the New Palace built in the last century. However, as beautiful as this idea and the pure intention behind it are, it is not enough if, due to the worsening kindergarten teacher shortage, in a few years there will be no one to deal with, look after, or raise, our children, the growing generations. At the same time, I stress that the lack of kindergarten educators is not only a problem affecting the district but also the whole country. In November last year, the civil society, Parental Voice, called attention to the fact that in many places they cannot provide two graduate kindergarten teachers by group, so that in these places there are adequate teachers without qualifications to look after these children. They're teachers' assistants, but there are kindergartens where they're public workers. Other studies add that the kindergarten educator's career is getting old and that kindergarten education is not attractive enough for young people. This is no wonder, for a young kindergarten teacher is neither financially nor morally appreciated by this system. To tell you the last thing, the salary of a junior kindergarten teacher, according to the current payroll, would have to be completed for 14 years to reach the minimum wage. Recently the 15th. The municipality of the district was presented with a proposal for the preparation of the 2022-23 year of education and training, which states that the provisions of Article XV of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union are to be met. 22 open-ended and 5 fixed-term kindergarten jobs are not filled at the moment in the district. The lack of kindergarten educators is temporarily treated by part-time employment of retired kindergarten educators. However, the Labour Code of course provides an opportunity to do so, but it is clear that the employment of 14 retired kindergarten teachers can only be a solution to the critical situation for a period of time. Since the average age of kindergarten educator is also high in the district, the teacher's shortage in a few years will be in the 15th century. It can also cause serious problems in the district. It is an open secret that in several places in the country, kindergartens have to continue to break laws so that they can establish the operation of kindergartens for a period of time and time. An example is when kindergarten educators are forced to replace them and then not paid. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You have not been able to solve the problems I have just mentioned in the last decade, and we could also say that you have ruined the Hungarian kindergarten education, which has had a long history and a long tradition. It was you who celebrated a week ago here in the walls of this House by defending Hungarian children with an invalid and ineffective referendum. But you were also the ones who wrote in a multibillion-dollar poster campaign a few years ago that the main value was the family, while they abandoned parents, teachers, professionals, and did not guarantee the minimum conditions for the smooth operation of kindergartens. But let us recall that you were also the ones who were the biggest problem, and during the coronal virus epidemic, you did not provide free testing and free vaccination for preschool workers, even though, among other things, the Democratic Coalition demanded that you do so, and therefore you not only threatened preschool workers, but also parents and grandparents. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I am telling you to act, because the situation is threatening disaster and collapse. It is not vocal voices, it is not referendums on false questions that will protect families and children, but, for example, if, because of the lack of kindergarten teachers, there is no need for groups to be grouped together, don't give God, to close kindergartens; if first-timers who choose this very beautiful profession are finally properly appreciated; and if you do not degrade kindergartens into mere child care and thus do not provide children with a real physical and meaningful safety environment that is essential for the healthy development of children. The procrastination, the procrastination of tasks in a few years will have insurmountable consequences, it's time for action! Thank you so much for listening.
u2022-05-16-86	Mr Attila Stojka, representative of the Fidesz, also spoke after the agenda. I'll give the floor to Congressman in five minutes. Here you go.
u2022-05-16-87	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, In stormy times, you really have to learn from the past. Because, yes, we need to learn from the past, just in order not to make mistakes that can cause tragedy or that are against the basic values of mankind. On 16 May 1944, in the Gypsy Camp of Auschwitz-Birkenau, SS officers lined up the Roma people, including the elderly, women and children, in order to take them to the gas chamber, destroy their children, take their future. But the gypsies stood up to the Nazis, they rebelled: men, women, children with stones, sticks, sticks, glass pots broken out of the windows, everything they could possibly have made weapons, attacked their killers. [[17.50]] When it comes to gypsies and Roma, few people note that they were not only sufferers of the event, but they are also linked to the Roma on 16 May, which is considered impossible in the camp, which is today considered to be a day of youth and courage for the Roma. But why would they think they could stand up to the SS officers? Because they believed that there were values above all else. They were courageous because they stood up for the protection of family, children, and life. 371 children were born at the Gypsy Camp in Auschwitz, who were not given the opportunity to complete their lives, whose lives ended as children, even though they could have been doctors, engineers, teachers, skilled workers, family mothers and family fathers. They were not given the fulfillment of life, for there were those who felt entitled to control the lives of others. Dear Parliament, Today it is our job to remember; to remember and remind of the inhumane acts the shadow of which is XX. It's projecting for the next century. To complete the picture, you also need to see the path that led to the terrible situation of race theory and World War II. First, the process began with ethnicisation, stigmatization, and then laws that brought the result of the emergency age. CHAPTER XX The tragedy of the century began when he turned away from fundamental values. We must always remember that the power of family, child, faith, and belonging gives the greatness and future of a nation. Because these are the ones for which family fathers and family mothers were able to gain strength on the night of May 16 for their lives and, in fact, for the values of their nation and humanity, which God gave them, they struggled. It is our duty to maintain these values under all circumstances. Our job is to build a country, a nation, based on mutual respect for people. Since 2010, it has become clear that Hungarians do not ask for division, they choose to stand side by side instead of opposition. And now people have given confidence to the leadership of the country, a party alliance, the Fidesz-KDNP party association, not to seek social differences, but to the values that strengthen the unity of the nation. That is why the strong stand of the national government based on Christian values, which proclaimed zero tolerance to racism, must be highlighted. On May 16th, 2015, a series of events, which reminded me of the day of youth and courage of the Roma, supported by the government, was organized. Since then, on this day of the year, we have held a memorial that honors the victims. Dear Parliament, The most important thing to learn from the past is in stormy weather. That is why I am taking the initiative to declare the day of commemoration of the events of 16 May 1944, the day of youth and courage of the Roma, an international day of remembrance, reminding the family unity, the protection of children and their future above all else. Thank you for your attention.
u2022-05-16-88	Mr Dávid Dócs, representative of Mi Hazank, also applied for a post-scheduled speech: they are in West Nógrád, who could do better! It's an address. I'll give the floor to the congressman in a five-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2022-05-16-89	Madam President, Dear House, As I look at the almost empty parliamentary seats here, I understand more and more the substance of this address. In a sentence, if possible, I would also respond to the question of the referendum, as we have heard that some people who do not have the Hungarian taxpayers' money are not expensive enough, so much so that they are able to compete in a competition that has started, but never a winner. I think this is the case of 13 billion forints thrown out the window. We could hear here a more entertaining or bleak piece of gastronomic and gardening like a teleshop, which made this day a little more fun, but I would like to continue with a different subject. In my speech after the agenda, I asked for the floor on the matter concerning my constituency. Since the slogan is well known: Hungary is performing better, and Western Nógrád could do better, I would say, in many other ways, because we are at the end of the line, but I would like to present you with a specific, extraordinary, visual and worrying problem, which has been brought to my attention by locals. The north-eastern region of the county is the place of the problem, and its source is the sewage treatment plant in Karancslapújtő, in which five municipalities are also owners, but the Hungarian state exercises the majority ownership powers in the image of the Regional Waterworks in North Hungary, so the state has a direct role in the case; if it has a role, it has a responsibility, that is clear. For some reason, the case didn't make much of a fuss, but it did leave a bigger ecological trail. In March 2021, the cleaning equipment of this sewage treatment plant was broken and the unclean waste water was released into the nearby stream, the Dobroda stream, which not only caused huge problems for the inhabitants of the area, but was subsequently pumped into the Ipoly and transferred to the Komravölgyi reservoir, where the drinking water supply takes place. I think that this is a very important thing, because it is not only environmental damage that can be done, because on the basis of reports, and I also brought some statistics, from which it can be seen that the biological conformity of Ipoly and Dobroda has unfortunately fallen to almost zero. The entire life of Dobroda is extinct, and further problems are caused by the fact that the Komravölgyi reservoir is simply a drinking water network in the area, so it affects a lot of people. For some reason, the local political elite has not dealt with the matter, but we would like to do so in order to reassure the locals and to reassure virtually district areas if the government, even if the state has a direct responsibility and role in the matter, would take effective action. For this case of more than a year has not been settled to this day, and to this day it is possible to measure values above the right values, which, we believe, can lead to further damage to nature, and we believe that it is unacceptable for a reservoir from which water is extracted for drinking water. The people on the eastern half of our county, the sufferers, expect a real solution, a real effective measure, so I ask that the government finally persuade the majority of state-owned Zrt. to drive it so that their insufficient service is not paid by the Nógrádians. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-05-16-90	Member of Mr István Apáti, representative of Mi Hazan, also came forward after the agenda. The address for his speech is: When can we get to the prison on M49? I'll give the floor to the congressman. Here you go.
u2022-05-16-91	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Dear Parliament, On 4 May 2017, in the morning hours before the rain started, Viktor Orbán made the clear and unmistakable promise to the people of Csenger and the Csengeri district that the M49 bypass road would be built as soon as possible, and there will be a prison building at the Csenger border. [[18.00]] Since May 4, 2017, there has been little. The planned area of the prison at the moment is located in the pedestal, pedestaling branch, there has been no cutting of a hoe, and the construction of the M49 bypass road has not begun in substance. However, in order to understand what is happening in the constituency of Mátészalka, which would not only be my constituency, but also, directly and indirectly, the two investments that are beneficial to the entire county of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg, we need to go back in time. Let's start with the case of M49, which has a 25-year history. This is the same small size for our area, the Szatmár region and the Szabolcs region as the 4th metro investment in Budapest used to be. A quarter of a century of them have been stunning voters, a quarter of a century of promises, but little has been done in this matter. Basically, the M3 motorway would start from around the current 266, and Mátészalka-Kocsord-Győrtelek, the famous Ököritófülpös-Porcsalma-Pátyod-Csenger would reach the Hungarian-Romanian border at a specific border point. This road construction would create a great deal of jobs and boost many businesses, provided that local workers and entrepreneurs would be given the opportunity, as it would take several years and would therefore have a very significant beneficial effect on the area. Not to mention the fact that for 25 years there have been unblessed conditions, since the affected sections, especially Kochord and Mátészalka settlements, have been experiencing unbearable traffic situations every day. According to the data of a 2006 tavern traffic census, in 24 hours, 10 250 vehicles passed through the settlement for all types of vehicles, reaching 16 thousand by 2010, and by now the number of vehicles passing within 24 hours has been more conveniently increased than 20,000. These roads are depressed, narrow and dangerous, causing serious damage to residential properties, traffic itself causes serious damage, as there is nothing to distract, divert this traffic, and indicate that in the smaller part of Győrtelek, in the entire area of Kocsord and Mátészalka, not only the Chengersima, but also a significant part of the traffic coming from Beregsurány or Tiszabecs will also crash, and this will impact the unbearability of the situation. We are talking about a neighbourhood that has received smaller investment opportunities and small improvements in recent years, but we have to wait 25 years for a really large, powerful investment in infrastructure. It's the same with the prison at Bell. The difference here is that this has not been promised for 25 years, but for about six to seven years. The most determined promise was made on 4 May 2017, then directly from the mouth of the Prime Minister of the country. In this case, there's a variety of news. The story began with nine prisons being built to reduce overcrowding. A separate law firm was set up to sue so-called herring money, i.e. overcrowded money, millions of forints per convict from the Hungarian state, and therefore the level of congestion per prison needs to be reduced. The nine penitentiaries were reduced to three later, and then there was one out of three, and this would mean the beneficiary position of my small hometown, Csenger, if something finally happened. In the beginning, a prison of 500 seats was planned, and last time it was about creating 1000 seats. If we count 500 seats, 250, if there were 1,000 seats, there could be 500 new jobs, which would also help make a living of 2,000 people, who would be predominantly local. In the poorest walk in the country, this would be a huge improvement, a boost to the real estate market, and a lot of positive effects that this region, which has suffered a lot and is worth much better for a long time ago, would deserve. Therefore, I strongly demand the construction of the prison in Bell, the construction of the bypass road as soon as possible, and the fulfillment of the Prime Minister's promises at all. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of our country.]]
u2022-05-16-92	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
